---

title: Generation of potent dominant negative transcriptional inhibitors
abstract: The present invention provides methods and compositions for regulating gene expression using transcription factors linked to proteins that localize to the transcriptional machinery.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08148129&OS=08148129&RS=08148129
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08148129
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070620
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Ser. No. 60 817 927 filed Jun. 30 2006 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. R01 AI29135 and R41CA 103407 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The regulation of gene expression by transcription factors is a fundamental aspect of the physiology of all cells whether prokaryotic or eukaryotic. In eukaryotic organisms for instance a variety of transcription factors govern cell growth differentiation and death. The appropriate spatial and temporal expression of specific transcription factors governs development. As examples transcription factors such as Myc and E2F control progression through the cell cycle homeodomain paired box and forkhead transcription factors among others are involved in embryonic development p53 is involved with tumor suppression and cell death steroid hormone receptors such as sex hormone glucocorticoid mineralocorticoid and thyroid hormone receptors have pleiotrophic effects on various aspects of physiology.

The aberrant expression of transcription factors can lead to abnormal development and various disease states. The inappropriate expression of proto oncogenes such as c Myc through chromosomal translocation can lead to cancers such as Burkitt s lymphoma. The formation of a PML RARa fusion protein has been shown to be responsible for acute promyelocytic leukemia. Loss of p53 expression results in increased susceptibility to various cancers. The inappropriate expression or loss of expression of heart specific transcription factors such as Tbx1 Tbx5 NRx2.5 Gata4 Sal4 and Eya4 have been shown to result in congenital heart defects.

Improved methods for regulating gene expression by modulating transcription factor function would result in more optimal treatment of many diseases.

One disease which might be approached by modulating transcription factor function is acquired immune deficiency syndrome AIDS . Human immunodeficiency virus HIV has been identified as the etiological agent responsible for AIDS a fatal disease characterized by destruction of the immune system and the inability to fight off life threatening opportunistic infections. Recent statistics indicate that as many as 33 million people worldwide are infected with the virus. In addition to the large number of individuals already infected the virus continues to spread. Estimates from 1998 point to close to 6 million new infections in that year alone. In the same year there were approximately 2.5 million deaths associated with HIV and AIDS.

HIV is a member of the class of viruses known as retroviruses. The retroviral genome is composed of RNA which is converted to DNA by reverse transcription. This retroviral DNA is then stably integrated into a host cell s chromosome and employing the replication machinery of the host cells produces new retroviral particles and advances the infection to other cells. HIV appears to have a particular affinity for the human T 4 lymphocyte cell which plays a vital role in the body s immune system. HIV infection of these white blood cells depletes this white cell population. Eventually the immune system is rendered inoperative and ineffective against various opportunistic diseases such as among others pneumocystic carini pneumonia Kaposi s sarcoma and cancer of the lymph system.

There are currently a number of antiviral drugs available to combat the infection. These drugs can be divided into four classes based on the viral protein they target and their mode of action. In particular one class of such antiviral drugs are competitive inhibitors of the aspartyl protease expressed by HIV. Other agents are nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors that behave as substrate mimics to halt viral cDNA synthesis. A class of non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors inhibit the synthesis of viral cDNA via a non competitive or uncompetitive mechanism. Another class are drugs that block viral fusion. Used alone these drugs show effectiveness in reducing viral replication. However the effects are only temporary as the virus readily develops resistance to all known agents.

As indicated above a number of critical points in the HIV life cycle have been identified as possible targets for antiviral drugs including 1 the initial attachment of the virion to the T 4 lymphocyte or macrophage site 2 the transcription of viral RNA to viral DNA reverse transcriptase RT and 3 the processing of gag pol protein by HIV protease. An additional potentially attractive therapeutic target is transcription of the HIV genome. Transcription of the HIV genome is essential for replication of the virus after integration of viral DNA into a host cell chromosome. However attempts to target HIV transcription have been hampered in part by the fact that transcription of the integrated HIV genome utilizes the host cell transcriptional machinery as well as viral transcription factors. Thus therapies that attempt to target the transcription of the HIV genome may also interfere with transcription of normal host cell genes. Attempts have been made to target specifically HIV transcription by the generation of dominant negative forms of Tat a virally encoded transcription factor. However these dominant forms have been shown to have poor activity at inhibiting HIV transcription and viral replication.

Effective new methods to target underexploited aspects of the HIV lifecycle such as transcription of the HIV genome would be desirable.

The present application demonstrates that potent dominant negative regulators of transcription can be generated by linking a transcription factor to a protein that localizes to the transcriptional machinery.

In one embodiment a method of regulating transcription of a gene is provided in which a nucleic acid construct is expressed in a cell in an amount sufficient for modulation of transcription where the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a transcription factor protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein or a fragment thereof that localizes to the transcriptional machinery. In various aspects the transcription factor protein can be viral transcription factors nuclear proto oncogene or oncogene proteins nuclear tumor suppressor proteins heart specific transcription factors and immune system transcription factors. In some further aspects the viral transcription factors can be HIV Tat HPV E2 HPV E7 BPV E2 Adenovirus IVa2 HSV 1 ICP4 EBNA LP EBNA 2 EBNA 3A EBNA 3B EBNA 3C BZLF 1 CMV IE 1 CMV IE2 HHSV 8 K bZIP HBV Hbx Poxvirus Vaccinia VETF HCV NS5A T Ag Adenovirus E1A Herpesvirus VP16 HTLV Tax Hepadnavirus X protein or Baculovirus AcNPV IE 1. In some further aspects the nuclear proto oncogene or oncogene proteins can be Abl Myc Myb Rel Jun Fos Spl Apl NF B STAT 3 or 5 catenin Notch GLI or PML RAR . In some further aspects heart specific transcription factors can be Nkx 2 3 4 or 5 TBX5 GATA 4 5 or 6 or MEF2. In some further aspects the immune cell specific transcription factor can be Ikaros PU.1 PAX 5 Oct 2 or BOB.1 OBF.1.

In various embodiments the transcription factor can be a dominant negative transcription factor or fragment thereof. In further embodiments the transcription factor can be either a transcriptional activator or repressor. In yet further embodiments the transcription factor can be an activation domain AD fragment of the transcription factor. In yet further embodiments the transcription factor can be Tat or an activation domain fragment or other fragment of Tat.

In some embodiments the protein or a fragment thereof that localizes to the transcriptional machinery is a protein with nuclear localization a component of the transcriptional machinery or a protein that functions in co transcriptional processing of RNA. In some aspects the protein that functions in co transcriptional processing of RNA is a capping factor a splicing factor a polyadenylation factor an RNA export factor or a translation factor. In some aspects the splicing factor is an RS domain containing protein. In yet other aspects the splicing factor is SF1 U2AF65 or 9G8 and the polyadenylation factor is CstF1.

In some embodiments the modulation of transcription is inhibition of transcription by at least 25 or at least 50 or at least 75 or at least 95 . In some aspects the modulation of transcription is by inhibition of transcriptional initiation or elongation or termination. In some embodiments the modulation of transcription is activation of transcription.

In some embodiments the cell is a T cell infected with an immunodeficiency virus that can be HIV FIV SIV or BIV. In yet further embodiments the cell is a cancer cell heart cell or immune system cell. In some aspects the cancer cell is a carcinoma sarcoma adenocarcinoma lymphoma leukemia or solid tumors of the kidney breast lung bladder colon ovarian prostate pancreas stomach brain head and neck skin uterine testicular glioma esophagus or liver. In some aspects the immune system cell can be a B cell T cell macrophage or dendritic cell.

Also included as embodiments are vectors and cells containing the nucleic acids of the embodiments above as well as the proteins encoded by these nucleic acids. In further aspects a composition comprising the nucleic acid construct or protein of the above embodiments and a physiologically acceptable carrier is provided.

In yet further embodiments a method of regulating transcription of a gene is provided by expressing a nucleic acid construct in a cell in an amount sufficient for modulation of transcription in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a transcription factor protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a splicing factor or a fragment thereof.

In still further embodiments a method of inhibiting replication of an immunodeficiency virus by expressing a nucleic acid construct in a cell in an amount sufficient for modulation of viral transcription in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a transcription factor protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein or a fragment thereof that localizes to the transcriptional machinery.

In another embodiment provided is a method of inhibiting replication of an immunodeficiency virus by expressing in a cell a nucleic acid construct in an amount sufficient for modulation of viral transcription in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a Tat protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein or a fragment thereof that localizes to the transcriptional machinery.

In another embodiment provided is a method of inhibiting replication of an immunodeficiency virus by expressing in a cell a nucleic acid construct in an amount sufficient for modulation of viral transcription in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a transcription factor protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a splicing factor or a fragment thereof.

In another embodiment provided is a method of treating a subject infected with an immunodeficiency virus by administering a nucleic acid construct in an amount sufficient for inhibition of viral transcription in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a transcription factor or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein or a fragment thereof that localizes to the transcriptional machinery. In some aspects the treating is with a protein of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment provided is a method of inhibiting transcription of a HIV genome in a cell by expressing in the cell a nucleic acid construct in an amount sufficient for inhibition of the transcription of the HIV genome in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a Tat protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a U2AF65 protein or a fragment thereof.

In another embodiment provided is a method of treating a subject with cancer by expressing in the subject a nucleic acid construct in an amount sufficient for modulation of transcription in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a transcription factor protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein or a fragment thereof that localizes to the transcriptional machinery. In some aspects the treating is with a protein of the embodiments above.

In another embodiment provided is a method of treating or preventing a disease in a subject by expressing in the subject a nucleic acid construct in an amount sufficient for modulation of transcription in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a transcription factor protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein or a fragment thereof that localizes to the transcriptional machinery where the disease is viral infection cancer heart disease and inflammation.

In another embodiment provided is a method of validating a target by expressing a nucleic acid construct in a cell in an amount sufficient for modulation of transcription of the gene for the target in which the construct contains a first nucleic acid sequence encoding a transcription factor protein or a fragment thereof linked to a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein or a fragment thereof that localizes to the transcriptional machinery where altered expression of the gene for the target provides target confirmation.

The gene product of a dominant negative mutation interferes with the function of a normal wild type gene product within the same cell. This usually occurs if the gene product of the dominant negative mutation can still interact with the same elements as the wild type product but blocks some aspect of the wild type protein s function. As an example in the case of multi subunit protein complexes an inactive dominant negative protein can bind to wild type components of the complex rendering the resulting complex less active or inactive. Genetic engineering has allowed the construction of dominant negative forms of many different types of proteins. In the case of transcription factors one approach has been to generate transcription factors that lack a gene activation domain but which retain a DNA binding domain. When expressed in cells such dominant negative proteins are able to bind to their cognate DNA recognition sites thus preventing the binding of a wild type transcription factor and leading to reduced expression of a target gene. However typically for dominant negative inhibition to occur a great excess of dominant negative protein must be expressed in order to effectively out compete the wild type protein.

A dominant negative approach has previously been used in an attempt to inhibit transcription of the HIV genome and thus viral replication. When a truncated form of Tat lacking the basic domain was tested in transient co transfection experiments it was found that an 8 30 fold molar excess of the dominant negative Tat over wild type Tat was required to inhibit the expression of a reporter gene under the control of the HIV LTR.

The inventors have devised a new method of generating potent dominant negative transcriptional inhibitors for pharmaceutical treatment of diseases gene therapy target validation disease diagnosis and mechanistic studies of transcription among other applications. As discussed above previously described dominant negative transcription factors typically act by competing with other interacting factors or by creating defective oligomers thus requiring a large excess of inhibitor while providing only a modest amount of inhibition. The inventors have discovered that linking a protein which localizes to the transcriptional machinery to a transcription factor can effectively target and generate high local concentrations of a dominant negative protein thereby efficiently out competing wild type protein when expressed at stoichiometric amounts. In particular the inventors have made the unexpected finding that fusion of the Tat protein or a fragment thereof such as the Tat activation domain Tat AD to a protein that localizes to the transcriptional machinery results in a potent inhibitor of transcription of the HIV genome. In particular when Tat or Tat AD is fused to the splicing factors SF1 or U2AF65 a potent dominant negative effect is observed. While one embodiment of this invention as described below in the Examples relates to the inhibition of HIV transcription and viral replication it will be clear to the skilled artisan that the methods of the present invention can be used to generate dominant negative forms of other transcription factors and other classes of proteins.

Immediately after HIV infects a cell the viral RNA is copied into DNA and the proviral genome is transported to the nucleus where it is integrated into the host genome. Once integrated into the host chromosome the HIV proviral genome is subject to regulation by a variety of cellular transcription factors as well as by virally encoded factors. Among these virally encoded factors the trans activator protein Tat provides the primary control of HIV transcription.

Transcription of the HIV genome begins at the viral LTR when the host cell RNA polymerase complex binds to the HIV promoter. The HIV LTR however is a poor promoter in the absence of Tat. In the absence of Tat only non processive basal transcription of the HIV genome is observed. However upon recruitment of Tat to the transcriptional complex at the promoter transcription of the HIV genome is greatly stimulated. Recruitment of Tat to the HIV promoter is mediated at least in part by the binding of Tat to a short RNA sequence that forms a stem loop termed the transactivation responsive region TAR which lies just downstream of the initiation site for transcription. Transcription of TAR by the basal transcriptional machinery to form the TAR RNA stem loop allows Tat to join the complex and stimulate transcription. Upon binding of Tat it is believed that other cellular factors are recruited to the transcriptional complex that convert the complex into a form that is competent for processive transcript elongation.

In one embodiment of this invention the inventors have made a fusion of the Tat protein or a fragment thereof such as the Tat activation domain Tat AD to proteins that localize to the transcriptional machinery. When Tat or Tat AD is fused to splicing factors such as SF1 or U2AF65 a potent dominant negative effect is observed. Without limiting themselves to any particular mechanism of action and as explained below in greater detail the inventors have found that the fused splicing factor proteins act as tethering domains directing the Tat fusion protein to RNA polymerase at the HIV 1 promoter thus blocking the activity of incoming wild type Tat proteins. This results in a high local concentration of the inhibiting fusion protein at the site of action.

A dominant negative gene product or protein is one that interferes with the function of another gene product or protein. The other gene product affected can be the same or different from the dominant negative protein. Dominant negative gene products can be of many forms including truncations full length proteins with point mutations or fragments thereof or fusions of full length wild type or mutant proteins or fragments thereof with other proteins. The level of inhibition observed can be very low. For example it may require a large excess of the dominant negative protein compared to the functional protein or proteins involved in a process in order to see an effect. It may be difficult to see effects under normal biological assay conditions.

A transcription factor is a protein that regulates transcription. Transcription factors may bind directly to DNA or RNA or may interact with the transcriptional machinery via protein protein interactions with no direct nucleic acid contact to modulate transcription. Transcription factors in general are reviewed in Barnes and Adcock Clin. Exp. Allergy 25 Suppl. 2 46 9 1995 Roeder Methods Enzymol. 273 165 71 1996 and Brivanlou and Darnell Science 1 Feb. 2002 813 818 2002 among other sources.

A promoter is defined as an array of nucleic acid control sequences that direct transcription. As used herein a promoter typically includes necessary nucleic acid sequences near the start site of transcription such as in the case of certain RNA polymerase II type promoters a TATA element enhancer CCAAT box SP 1 site etc. As used herein a promoter also optionally includes distal enhancer or repressor elements which can be located as much as several thousand base pairs from the start site of transcription. The promoters often have an element that is responsive to transactivation by a DNA binding moiety such as a polypeptide e.g. a nuclear receptor Gal4 the lac repressor and the like.

A target site is the nucleic acid sequence recognized by a transcription factor protein. A single target site typically has about four to about ten or more base pairs. The target site is in any position that allows regulation of gene expression e.g. adjacent to up or downstream of the transcription initiation site proximal to an enhancer or other transcriptional regulation element such as a repressor e.g. SP 1 binding sites hypoxia response elements nuclear receptor recognition elements p53 binding sites etc. RNA polymerase pause sites and intron exon boundaries.

 Linking or fusing as used in this application refers to entities that are directly linked or linked via an amino acid linker the size and composition of which can vary or linked via a chemical linker.

The term transcriptional machinery generally refers to the complex of cellular components responsible for making RNA from a DNA template and related co transcriptional RNA processing. The complex responsible for transcription in a cell is referred to as RNA polymerase. During transcription a variety of factors join the RNA polymerase complex to effect various aspects of transcription and co transcriptional RNA processing as described below. In eukaryotic cells three forms of RNA polymerase exist termed RNA polymerases I II and III. RNA polymerase I synthesizes a pre rRNA 45S which matures into 28 S 18S and 5 8 S rRNAs which form the major RNA portions of the ribosome. RNA polymerase II synthesizes precursors of mRNAs and most snRNA. Because of the large variety of cellular genes are transcribed by thus polymerase RNAP II is subject to the highest level of control requiring a wide range of transcription factors depending on the promoter. RNA polymerase III is responsible for the synthesis of tRNAs rRNA 5S and other small RNAs found in the nucleus and cytosol. Additionally other RNA polymerase types are found in mitochondria and chloroplasts.

A 550 kDa complex of 12 subunits RNAP II is the most intensively studied type of RNA polymerase. A wide range of transcription factors are required for it to bind to its promoters and to begin transcription. In the process of transcription there are three main stages 1 initiation which requires construction of the RNA polymerase complex on the gene s promoter 2 elongation during which the RNA transcript is made from the DNA template 3 and termination the step at which the formation of the RNA transcript is completed and disassembly of the RNA polymerase complex occurs.

The components of the transcriptional machinery that may be targeted by this invention comprise any factor that is brought into the RNA polymerase complex and can be exemplified by the order in which the TAFs TBP Associated Factors attach to form a polymerase complex on a promoter. TBP TATA Binding Protein and an attached complex of TAFs collectively known as TFIID Transcription Factor for polymerase II D bind at the TATA box although not all promoters have the TATA box. TFIIA three subunits binds TFIID and DNA stabilizing the first interactions. TFIIB binds between TFIID and the location of Pol II binding in the near future. TFIIB binds partially sequence specifically with some preference for BRE. TFIIF and Pol II two subunits RAP30 and RAP74 showing some similarity to bacterial sigma factors enter the complex together. TFIIF helps to speed up the polymerization process. TFIIE enters the complex and helps to open and close the PolII s Jaw like structure which enables movement down the DNA strand. TFIIE and TFIIH enter concomitantly. Finally TFIIH binds. TFIIH is a large protein complex that contains among others the CDK7 cyclin H kinase complex and a DNA helicase. TFIIH has three functions it binds specifically to the template strand to ensure that the correct strand of DNA is transcribed and melts or unwinds the DNA ATP dependently to separate the two strands using its Helicase activity. It has a kinase activity that phosphorylates the C terminal domain CTD of Pol II at the amino acid serine. This switches the RNA polymerase to start producing RNA which marks the end of initiation and the start of elongation. Finally it is essential for Nucleotide Excision Repair NER of damaged DNA. TFIIH and TFIIE strongly interact with one another. TFIIE affects TFIIH s catalytic activity. Without TFIIE TFIIH will not unwind the promoter. Mediator then encases all the transcription factors and the Pol II. Mediator interacts with enhancers areas very far away upstream or downstream that help regulate transcription.

A protein that localizes to the transcriptional machinery is one that is capable of associating or interacting with the transcriptional machinery as described above or a component thereof. The association or interaction may be non covalent or covalent and may be reversible or non reversible. Examples of proteins that localize to the transcriptional machinery include nuclear localized proteins RNA processing proteins components of the transcriptional machinery and proteins involved in co transcriptional processes. Among the co transcriptional processes that are subjects of the invention are capping splicing polyadenylation RNA export translation.

An RS domain containing protein also referred to in the literature as an SR protein is a protein with a domain that contains multiple arginine and serine di peptides single letter code RS and or serine and arginine di peptides single letter code SR . RS domains are found in a number of cellular proteins particularly those involved with pre mRNA splicing and RNA processing events.

A transcriptional activator and a transcriptional repressor refer to proteins or effector domains of proteins that have the ability to modulate transcription by binding directly to DNA or RNA or by interacting with the transcriptional machinery via protein protein interactions with no direct nucleic acid contact. Such proteins include e.g. transcription factors and co factors e.g. KRAB MAD ERD SID nuclear factor kappa B subunit p65 early growth response factor 1 and nuclear hormone receptors VP16 VP64 endonucleases integrases recombinases methyltransferases histone acetyltransferases histone deacetylases etc. Activators and repressors include co activators and co repressors see e.g. Utley et al. 394 498 502 1998 .

The terms modulating transcription inhibiting transcription and activating transcription of a gene refer to the ability of a dominant negative to activate or inhibit transcription of a gene. Activation includes prevention of transcriptional inhibition i.e. prevention of repression of gene expression and inhibition includes prevention of transcriptional activation i.e. prevention of gene activation .

Modulation can be assayed by determining any parameter that is indirectly or directly affected by the expression of the target gene. Such parameters include e.g. changes in RNA or protein levels changes in protein activity changes in product levels changes in downstream gene expression changes in reporter gene transcription luciferase CAT 3 galactosidase glucuronidase GFP see e.g. Mistili Spector 15 961 964 1997 changes in signal transduction phosphorylation and dephosphorylation receptor ligand interactions second messenger concentrations e.g. cGMP cAMP IP3 and Ca cell growth and neovascularization. These assays can be in vitro in vivo and ex vivo. Such functional effects can be measured by any means known to those skilled in the art e.g. measurement of RNA or protein levels measurement of RNA stability identification of downstream or reporter gene expression e.g. via chemiluminescence fluorescence colorimetric reactions antibody binding inducible markers ligand binding assays changes in intracellular second messengers such as cGMP and inositol triphosphate IP3 changes in intracellular calcium levels cytokine release and the like.

To determine the level of gene expression modulation by a dominant negative construct cells contacted with nucleic acids encoding dominant negative or dominant negative proteins are compared to control cells which have not received this treatment. Control samples are assigned a relative gene expression activity value of 100 . Modulation inhibition of gene expression is achieved when the gene expression activity value relative to the control is about 80 preferably 50 i.e. 0.5 the activity of the control more preferably 25 more preferably 5 0 . Modulation activation of gene expression is achieved when the gene expression activity value relative to the control is 110 more preferably 150 i.e. 1.5 the activity of the control more preferably 200 500 more preferably 1000 2000 or more.

The term heterologous is a relative term which when used with reference to portions of a nucleic acid indicates that the nucleic acid comprises two or more subsequences that are not found in the same relationship to each other in nature. For instance a nucleic acid that is recombinantly produced typically has two or more sequences from unrelated genes synthetically arranged to make a new functional nucleic acid e.g. a promoter from one source and a coding region from another source. The two nucleic acids are thus heterologous to each other in this context. When added to a cell the recombinant nucleic acids would also be heterologous to the endogenous genes of the cell. Thus in a chromosome a heterologous nucleic acid would include an non native non naturally occurring nucleic acid that has integrated into the chromosome or a non native non naturally occurring extrachromosomal nucleic acid. In contrast a naturally translocated piece of chromosome would not be considered heterologous in the context of this patent application as it comprises an endogenous nucleic acid sequence that is native to the mutated cell.

Similarly a heterologous protein indicates that the protein comprises two or more subsequences that are not found in the same relationship to each other in nature e.g. a fusion protein where the two subsequences are encoded by a single nucleic acid sequence . See e.g. Ausubel supra for an introduction to recombinant techniques.

The term recombinant when used with reference e.g. to a cell or nucleic acid protein or vector indicates that the cell nucleic acid protein or vector has been modified by the introduction of a heterologous nucleic acid or protein or the alteration of a native nucleic acid or protein or that the cell is derived from a cell so modified. Thus for example recombinant cells express genes that are not found within the native naturally occurring form of the cell or express a second copy of a native gene that is otherwise normally or abnormally expressed under expressed or not expressed at all.

An expression vector is a nucleic acid construct generated recombinantly or synthetically with a series of specified nucleic acid elements that permit transcription of a particular nucleic acid in a host cell and optionally integration or replication of the expression vector in a host cell. The expression vector can be part of a plasmid virus or nucleic acid fragment of viral or non viral origin. Typically the expression vector includes an expression cassette which comprises a nucleic acid to be transcribed operably linked to a promoter. The term expression vector also encompasses naked DNA operably linked to a promoter.

By host cell is meant a cell that contains an expression vector or nucleic acid encoding a dominant negative protein of the invention. The host cell typically supports the replication or expression of the expression vector. Host cells may be prokaryotic cells such as or eukaryotic cells such as yeast fungal protozoal higher plant insect or amphibian cells or mammalian cells such as CHO HeLa 293 COS 1 and the like e.g. cultured cells in vitro explants and primary cultures in vitro and ex vivo and cells in vivo.

 Nucleic acid refers to deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides and polymers thereof in either single or double stranded form. The term encompasses nucleic acids containing known nucleotide analogs or modified backbone residues or linkages which are synthetic naturally occurring and non naturally occurring which have similar binding properties as the reference nucleic acid and which are metabolized in a manner similar to the reference nucleotides. Examples of such analogs include without limitation phosphorothioates phosphoramidates methyl phosphonates chiral methyl phosphonates 2 O methyl ribonucleotides peptide nucleic acids PNAs .

Unless otherwise indicated a particular nucleic acid sequence also implicitly encompasses conservatively modified variants thereof e.g. degenerate codon substitutions and complementary sequences as well as the sequence explicitly indicated. Specifically degenerate codon substitutions may be achieved by generating sequences in which the third position of one or more selected or all codons is substituted with mixed base and or deoxyinosine residues Batzer et al. 19 5081 1991 Ohtsuka et al. 260 2605 2608 1985 Rossolini et al. 8 91 98 1994 . The term nucleic acid is used interchangeably with gene cDNA mRNA oligonucleotide and polynucleotide.

The terms polypeptide peptide and protein are used interchangeably herein to refer to a polymer of amino acid residues. The terms also apply to amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residues is an artificial chemical mimetic of a corresponding naturally occurring amino acid as well as to naturally occurring amino acid polymers and non naturally occurring amino acid polymer.

The term amino acid refers to naturally occurring and synthetic amino acids as well as amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that function in a manner similar to the naturally occurring amino acids. Naturally occurring amino acids are those encoded by the genetic code as well as those amino acids that are later modified e.g. hydroxyproline carboxyglutamate and O phosphoserine. Amino acid analogs refers to compounds that have the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid i.e. an carbon that is bound to a hydrogen a carboxyl group an amino group and an R group e.g. homoserine norleucine methionine sulfoxide methionine methyl sulfonium. Such analogs have modified R groups e.g. norleucine or modified peptide backbones but retain the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid. Amino acid mimetics refers to chemical compounds that have a structure that is different from the general chemical structure of an amino acid but that functions in a manner similar to a naturally occurring amino acid.

Amino acids may be referred to herein by either their commonly known three letter symbols or by the one letter symbols recommended by the IUPAC IUB Biochemical Nomenclature Commission. Nucleotides likewise may be referred to by their commonly accepted single letter codes.

 Conservatively modified variants applies to both amino acid and nucleic acid sequences. With respect to particular nucleic acid sequences conservatively modified variants refers to those nucleic acids which encode identical or essentially identical amino acid sequences or where the nucleic acid does not encode an amino acid sequence to essentially identical sequences. Because of the degeneracy of the genetic code a large number of functionally identical nucleic acids encode any given protein. For instance the codons GCA GCC GCG and GCU all encode the amino acid alanine. Thus at every position where an alanine is specified by a codon the codon can be altered to any of the corresponding codons described without altering the encoded polypeptide. Such nucleic acid variations are silent variations which are one species of conservatively modified variations. Every nucleic acid sequence herein which encodes a polypeptide also describes every possible silent variation of the nucleic acid. One of skill will recognize that each codon in a nucleic acid except AUG which is ordinarily the only codon for methionine and TGG which is ordinarily the only codon for tryptophan can be modified to yield a functionally identical molecule. Accordingly each silent variation of a nucleic acid which encodes a polypeptide is implicit in each described sequence.

As to amino acid sequences one of skill will recognize that individual substitutions deletions or additions to a nucleic acid peptide polypeptide or protein sequence which alters adds or deletes a single amino acid or a small percentage of amino acids in the encoded sequence is a conservatively modified variant where the alteration results in the substitution of an amino acid with a chemically similar amino acid. Conservative substitution tables providing functionally similar amino acids are well known in the art. Such conservatively modified variants are in addition to and do not exclude polymorphic variants interspecies homologs and alleles of the invention.

The following eight groups each contain amino acids that are conservative substitutions for one another 

The term substantially identical indicates that two or more nucleotide sequences share a majority of their sequence. Generally this will be at least about 90 of their sequence and preferably about 95 of their sequence. Another indication that sequences are substantially identical is if they hybridize to the same nucleotide sequence under stringent conditions see e.g. Sambrook and Russell eds 3rd Ed vols. 1 3 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2001 and Ausubel ed. John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1997 . Stringent conditions are sequence dependent and will be different in different circumstances. Generally stringent conditions are selected to be about 5 C. or less lower than the thermal melting point Tm for the specific sequence at a defined ionic strength and pH. The Tof a DNA duplex is defined as the temperature at which 50 of the nucleotides are paired and corresponds to the midpoint of the spectroscopic hyperchromic absorbance shift during DNA melting. The Tindicates the transition from double helical to random coil.

Typically stringent conditions will be those in which the salt concentration is about 0.2 SSC at pH 7 and the temperature is at least about 60 C. For example a nucleic acid of the invention or fragment thereof can be identified in standard filter hybridizations using the nucleic acids disclosed here under stringent conditions which for purposes of this disclosure include at least one wash usually 2 in 0.2 SSC at a temperature of at least about 60 C. usually about 65 C. sometimes 70 C. for 20 minutes or equivalent conditions. For PCR an annealing temperature of about 5 C. below Tm is typical for low stringency amplification although annealing temperatures may vary between about 32 C. and 72 C. e.g. 40 C. 42 C. 45 C. 52 C. 55 C. 57 C. or 62 C. depending on primer length and nucleotide composition or high stringency PCR amplification a temperature at or slightly up to 5 C. above primer Tm is typical although high stringency annealing temperatures can range from about 50 C. to about 72 C. and are often 72 C. depending on the primer and buffer conditions Ahsen et al. 47 1956 61 2001 . Typical cycle conditions for both high and low stringency amplifications include a denaturation phase of 90 C. 95 C. for 30 sec 2 min. an annealing phase lasting 30 sec. 10 min. and an extension phase of about 72 C. for 1 15 min.

The terms identical or percent identity in the context of two or more nucleic acids refer to two or more sequences or subsequences that are the same or have a specified percentage of nucleotides that are the same i.e. at least 70 identity preferably at least 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 identity over a specified region when compared and aligned for maximum correspondence over a comparison window or designated region as measured using a BLAST or BLAST 2.0 sequence comparison algorithms with default parameters described below or by manual alignment and visual inspection. Such sequences are then said to be substantially identical. This definition also refers to the complement of a test sequence. Preferably the identity exists over a region that is at least about 15 20 or 25 nucleotides in length or more preferably over a region that is 50 100 nucleotides in length.

For sequence comparison typically one sequence acts as a reference sequence to which test sequences are compared. When using a sequence comparison algorithm test and reference sequences are entered into a computer subsequence coordinates are designated if necessary and sequence algorithm program parameters are designated. Default program parameters can be used or alternative parameters can be designated. The sequence comparison algorithm then calculates the percent sequence identities for the test sequences relative to the reference sequence based on the program parameters.

A comparison window as used herein includes reference to a segment of any one of the number of contiguous positions selected from the group consisting of from 15 to 600 usually about 20 to about 200 more usually about 50 to about 150 in which a sequence may be compared to a reference sequence of the same number of contiguous positions after the two sequences are optimally aligned. Methods of alignment of sequences for comparison are well known in the art. Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison can be conducted e.g. by the local homology algorithm of Smith Waterman 2 482 1981 by the homology alignment algorithm of Needleman Wunsch 48 443 1970 by the search for similarity method of Pearson Lipman 85 2444 1988 by computerized implementations of these algorithms GAP BESTFIT FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group 575 Science Dr. Madison Wis. or by manual alignment and visual inspection see e.g. Ausubel et al. eds. 1995 supplement .

A preferred example of algorithm that is suitable for determining percent sequence identity and sequence similarity are the BLAST and BLAST 2.0 algorithms which are described in Altschul et al. 25 3389 3402 1977 and Altschul et al. 215 403 410 1990 respectively. BLAST and BLAST 2.0 are used with the default parameters described herein to determine percent sequence identity for the nucleic acids described herein. Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available through the National Center for Biotechnology Information. This algorithm involves first identifying high scoring sequence pairs HSPs by identifying short words of length W in the query sequence which either match or satisfy some positive valued threshold score T when aligned with a word of the same length in a database sequence. T is referred to as the neighborhood word score threshold Altschul et al. supra . These initial neighborhood word hits act as seeds for initiating searches to find longer HSPs containing them. The word hits are extended in both directions along each sequence for as far as the cumulative alignment score can be increased. Cumulative scores are calculated using for nucleotide sequences the parameters M reward score for a pair of matching residues always 0 and N penalty score for mismatching residues always 

The BLAST algorithm also performs a statistical analysis of the similarity between two sequences see e.g. Karlin Altschul 90 5873 5787 1993 . One measure of similarity provided by the BLAST algorithm is the smallest sum probability P N which provides an indication of the probability by which a match between two nucleotide sequences would occur by chance. For example a nucleic acid is considered similar to a reference sequence if the smallest sum probability in a comparison of the test nucleic acid to the reference nucleic acid is less than about 0.2 more preferably less than about 0.01 and most preferably less than about 0.001.

 Administering an expression vector nucleic acid protein or a delivery vehicle to a cell comprises transducing transfecting electroporating translocating fusing phagocytosing shooting or ballistic methods etc. i.e. any means by which a protein or nucleic acid can be transported across a cell membrane and preferably into the nucleus of a cell.

A delivery vehicle refers to a compound e.g. a liposome toxin or a membrane translocation polypeptide which is used to administer dominant negative proteins. Delivery vehicles can also be used to administer nucleic acids encoding dominant negative proteins of the invention e.g. a lipid nucleic acid complex an expression vector a virus and the like.

The dominant negative proteins of the invention comprise any of a number of possible fusions of a transcription factor or other protein or fragment thereof with a protein that is capable of localization to the transcriptional machinery such as nuclear localized proteins RNA processing proteins components of the transcriptional machinery and proteins involved in co transcriptional processes. Among the co transcriptional processes that are subjects of the invention are capping splicing polyadenylation RNA export translation. The transcription factor can be derived from any of a number of species including and not limited to viruses HIV bacteria yeast mouse monkey and human. For human applications a human TF is generally preferred. One of skill in the art will recognize that a wide variety of transcription factor proteins known in the art may be used in this invention. See Goodrich et al. 84 825 30 1996 Barnes Adcock 25 Suppl. 2 46 9 1995 and Roeder 273 165 71 1996 for general reviews of transcription factors. Databases dedicated to transcription factors are known see e.g. 269 630 1995 . Nuclear hormone receptor transcription factors are described in for example Rosen et al. 38 4855 74 1995 . The C EBP family of transcription factors are reviewed in Wedel et al. 193 171 85 1995 . Coactivators and co repressors that mediate transcription regulation by nuclear hormone receptors are reviewed in for example Meier 134 2 158 9 1996 Kaiser et al. 21 342 5 1996 and Utley et al. 394 498 502 1998 . GATA transcription factors which are involved in regulation of hematopoiesis are described in for example Simon 11 9 11 1995 Weiss et al. 23 99 107. TATA box binding protein TBP and its associated TAF polypeptides which include TAF30 TAF55 TAF80 TAF 110 TAF 150 and TAF250 are described in Goodrich Tjian 6 403 9 1994 and Hurley 6 69 75 1996 . The STAT family of transcription factors are reviewed in for example Barahmand Pour et al. 211 121 8 1996 . Transcription factors involved in disease are reviewed in Aso et al. 97 1561 9 1996 .

As further examples the transcription factor may be chosen from any of a number of different classes of known transcription factors such as those that contain homeodomains POU domains Helix Loop Helix HLH Zinc Fingers Leucine Zippers or Winged Helix to name but a few of the structural motifs found in transcription factors. Currently there are about 2000 known transcription factors. See e.g. Brivanlou and Darnell Science 295 813 818 2002 . Among some of the better known transcription factors include c Myc and Max c Fos and c Jun CREB c ErbA c Ets GATA c Myb MyoD KF kB RAR and SRF to name a few.

Among the classes of transcription factors that find use in this invention are viral transcription factors nuclear proto oncogene or oncogene proteins nuclear tumor suppressor proteins heart specific transcription factors and immune cell transcription factors. The viral transcription factors useful in the practice of this invention include HIV Tat HPV E2 HPV E7 BPV E2 Adenovirus IVa2 HSV 1 ICP4 EBNA LP EBNA 2 EBNA 3A EBNA 3B EBNA 3C BZLF 1 CMV IE 1 CMV IE2 HHSV 8 K bZIP HBV Hbx Poxvirus Vaccinia VETF HCV NS5A T Ag Adenovirus EIA Herpesvirus VP16 HTLV Tax Hepadnavirus X protein and Baculovirus AcNPV IE 1 among others. The nuclear proto oncogene or oncogene proteins and nuclear tumor suppressor proteins transcription factors useful in the practice of this invention include Abl Myc Myb Rel Jun Fos Sp I Apl NF B STAT 3 or 5 catenin Notch GLI PML RAR and p53 among others. The heart specific transcription factors useful in the practice of this invention include Nkx 2 3 4 or 5 TBX5 GATA 4 5 or 6 and MEF2 among others. The immune cell specific transcription factors useful in the practice of this invention include Ikaros PU.1 PAX 5 Oct 2 and BOB.1 OBF.1 among others. A non limiting list of transcription factors that may be used in the practice of this invention is provided in Table 3. The transcription factors useful in the practice of this invention can be human as well as derived from yeast or higher eukaryotes such as viruses HIV or mouse among other species.

In the practice of this invention the transcription factor can be either a transcriptional activator or repressor examples of which are well known in the art. Non limiting examples of transcriptional activators and repressors are provided in Table 3.

Proteins that localize to the transcriptional machinery include components of the transcriptional machinery nuclear localized proteins RNA processing proteins components of the transcriptional machinery and proteins involved in co transcriptional processes and RNA processing.

Among the components of the transcriptional machinery that may be used in the practice of this invention are TAFs CDK7 cyclin H DNA helicase unwinding enzymes transcription factors among others.

A wide range of proteins have been shown to localize to the nucleus and may be used in the practice of this invention. A non limiting list of such proteins is provided in Table 1.

Among the co transcriptional processes and RNA processing activities that are subjects of the invention are capping splicing polyadenylation RNA export and translation. Accordingly proteins involved in capping splicing polyadenylation RNA export and translation may be used in the practice of this invention. Splicing factors represent one particular class of proteins involved in co transcriptional processing of RNA and are suitable for the practice of this invention. As many as 300 factors are known to comprise the spliceosome. The protein components of spliceosomes are disclosed in Rappsilber J. Ryder U. Lamond A. I. and Mann M. 2002 Genome Res 12 8 1231 1245 and Zhou Z. Licklider L. J. Gygi S. P. and Reed R. 2002 Nature 419 6903 182 185 among other sources. Many splicing factors useful for the practice of this invention are compiled in Table 2. Particular examples of splicing factors useful in the practice of this invention include SF1 U2AF65 and 9G8.

The RS domain is a structural and functional feature characteristic of many nuclear proteins particularly splicing factors. A large number of RS domain proteins are known in the art and many have been identified through a genome wide survey of RS domain proteins from various species. See Boucher et al. RNA 7 1693 1701 2001 . Among the classes of known RS domain containing proteins that may be used in the practice of the invention are those listed in the table below.

In one embodiment of the invention HIV Tat protein or a fragment thereof can used as the transcription factor in a dominant negative fusion protein as described herein. The human Tat protein is an 86 amino acid protein that is required efficient viral gene expression. The Tat sequence has been subdivided into several distinct regions based on structure and function a N terminal activation region amino acids 1 19 a cysteine rich domain amino acids 20 31 a core region amino acids 32 47 a basic region amino acids 48 57 and a glutamine rich region amino acids 60 76 . See Karn J. ref . In one particular embodiment a full length Tat is linked to the splicing factors SF1 or U2AF65. In another embodiment the Tat activation domain Tat AD is linked to the splicing factors SF1 or U2AF65.

Dominant negative polypeptides and nucleic acids of the invention can be made using routine techniques in the field of recombinant genetics. Basic texts disclosing the general methods of use in this invention include Sambrook et al. 2nd ed. 1989 Kriegler 1990 and Ausubel et al. eds. 1994 . In addition essentially any nucleic acid can be custom ordered from any of a variety of commercial sources. Similarly peptides and antibodies can be custom ordered from any of a variety of commercial sources.

A nucleic acid encoding a dominant negative protein is typically cloned into intermediate vectors for transformation into prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells for replication and or expression. Intermediate vectors are typically prokaryote vectors e.g. plasmids or shuttle vectors or insect vectors for storage or manipulation of the nucleic acid encoding dominant negative proteins or production of protein. The nucleic acid encoding a dominant negative protein is also typically cloned into an expression vector for administration to a plant cell animal cell preferably a mammalian cell or a human cell fungal cell bacterial cell or protozoal cell.

To obtain expression of a cloned gene or nucleic acid a nucleic acid encoding a dominant negative protein is typically subcloned into an expression vector that contains a promoter to direct transcription. Suitable bacterial and eukaryotic promoters are well known in the art and described e.g. in Sambrook et al. 2nd ed. 1989 Kriegler 1990 and Ausubel et al. eds. 1994 . Bacterial expression systems for expressing a dominant negative protein are available in e.g. sp. and Palva et al. 22 229 235 1983 . Kits for such expression systems are commercially available. Eukaryotic expression systems for mammalian cells yeast and insect cells are well known in the art and are also commercially available.

The promoter used to direct expression of a nucleic acid encoding a dominant negative protein depends on the particular application. For example a strong constitutive promoter is typically used for expression and purification of a dominant negative protein. In contrast when a dominant negative protein is administered in vivo for gene regulation either a constitutive or an inducible promoter is used depending on the particular use of the dominant negative protein. In addition a preferred promoter for administration of a dominant negative protein can be a weak promoter such as HSV TK or a promoter having similar activity. The promoter typically can also include elements that are responsive to transactivation e.g. hypoxia response elements Gal4 response elements lac repressor response element and small molecule control systems such as tet regulated systems and the RU 486 system see e.g. Gossen Bujard 89 5547 1992 Oligino et al. 5 491 496 1998 Wang et al. 4 432 441 1997 Neering et al. 88 1147 1155 1996 and Rendahl et al. 16 757 761 1998 .

In addition to the promoter the expression vector typically contains a transcription unit or expression cassette that contains all the additional elements required for the expression of the nucleic acid in host cells either prokaryotic or eukaryotic. A typical expression cassette thus contains a promoter operably linked e.g. to the nucleic acid sequence encoding the dominant negative protein and signals required e.g. for efficient polyadenylation of the transcript transcriptional termination ribosome binding sites or translation termination. Additional elements of the cassette may include e.g. enhancers and heterologous spliced intronic signals.

The particular expression vector used to transport the genetic information into the cell is selected with regard to the intended use of the dominant negative protein e.g. expression in plants animals bacteria fungus protozoa etc. see expression vectors described below . Standard bacterial expression vectors include plasmids such as pBR322 based plasmids pSKF pET23D and commercially available fusion expression systems such as GST and LacZ. A preferred fusion protein is the maltose binding protein MBP. Such fusion proteins are used for purification of the dominant negative protein. Epitope tags can also be added to recombinant proteins to provide convenient methods of isolation for monitoring expression and for monitoring cellular and subcellular localization e.g. c myc or FLAG.

Expression vectors containing regulatory elements from eukaryotic viruses are often used in eukaryotic expression vectors e.g. SV40 vectors papilloma virus vectors and vectors derived from Epstein Barr virus. Other exemplary eukaryotic vectors include pMSG pAV009 A pMTO10 A pMAMneo 5 baculovirus pDSVE and any other vector allowing expression of proteins under the direction of the SV40 early promoter SV40 late promoter metallothionein promoter murine mammary tumor virus promoter Rous sarcoma virus promoter polyhedrin promoter or other promoters shown effective for expression in eukaryotic cells.

Some expression systems have markers for selection of stably transfected cell lines such as thymidine kinase hygromycin B phosphotransferase and dihydrofolate reductase. High yield expression systems are also suitable such as using a baculovirus vector in insect cells with a dominant negative protein encoding sequence under the direction of the polyhedrin promoter or other strong baculovirus promoters.

The elements that are typically included in expression vectors also include a replicon that functions in a gene encoding antibiotic resistance to permit selection of bacteria that harbor recombinant plasmids and unique restriction sites in nonessential regions of the plasmid to allow insertion of recombinant sequences.

Standard transfection methods are used to produce bacterial mammalian yeast or insect cell lines that express large quantities of protein which are then purified using standard techniques see e.g. Colley et al. 264 17619 17622 1989 vol. 182 Deutscher ed. 1990 . Transformation of eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells are performed according to standard techniques see e.g. Morrison 132 349 351 1977 Clark Curtiss Curtiss 101 347 362 Wu et al. eds 1983 .

Any of the well known procedures for introducing foreign nucleotide sequences into host cells may be used. These include the use of calcium phosphate transfection polybrene protoplast fusion electroporation liposomes microinjection naked DNA plasmid vectors viral vectors both episomal and integrative and any of the other well known methods for introducing cloned genomic DNA cDNA synthetic DNA or other foreign genetic material into a host cell see e.g. Sambrook et al. supra . It is only necessary that the particular genetic engineering procedure used be capable of successfully introducing at least one gene into the host cell capable of expressing the protein of choice.

A variety of assays can be used to determine the level of gene expression regulation by dominant negative proteins. The activity of a particular dominant negative protein can be assessed using a variety of in vitro and in vivo assays by measuring e.g. protein or mRNA levels product levels enzyme activity tumor growth transcriptional activation or repression of a reporter gene such as a fluorescent protein e.g. GFP second messenger levels e.g. cGMP cAMP IP3 DAG Ca cytokine and hormone production levels and neovascularization using e.g. immunoassays e.g. ELISA and immunohistochemical assays with antibodies hybridization assays e.g. RNase protection northerns in situ hybridization oligonucleotide array studies colorimetric assays amplification assays enzyme activity assays tumor growth assays phenotypic assays and the like.

Dominant negative proteins are typically first tested for activity in vitro using cultured cells e.g. 293 cells CHO cells VERO cells BHK cells HeLa cells COS cells and the like. Preferably human cells are used. The dominant negative protein is often first tested using a transient expression system with a reporter gene and then regulation of the target endogenous gene is tested in cells and in animals both in vivo and ex vivo. The dominant negative protein can be recombinantly expressed in a cell recombinantly expressed in cells transplanted into an animal or recombinantly expressed in a transgenic animal as well as administered as a protein to an animal or cell using delivery vehicles described below. The cells can be immobilized be in solution be injected into an animal or be naturally occurring in a transgenic or non transgenic animal.

Modulation of gene expression is tested using one of the in vitro or in vivo assays described herein. Samples or assays are treated with a dominant negative protein and compared to control samples without the test compound to examine the extent of modulation.

The effects of the dominant negative proteins can be measured by examining any of the parameters described above. Any suitable gene expression phenotypic or physiological change can be used to assess the influence of a dominant negative protein. When the functional consequences are determined using intact cells or animals one can also measure a variety of effects such as tumor growth neovascularization hormone release transcriptional changes to both known and uncharacterized genetic markers e.g. northern blots or oligonucleotide array studies changes in cell metabolism such as cell growth or pH changes and changes in intracellular second messengers such as cGMP.

Assays for dominant negative protein regulation of endogenous gene expression can be performed in vitro. In one preferred in vitro assay format dominant negative protein regulation of endogenous gene expression in cultured cells is measured by examining protein production using an ELISA assay see Examples VI and VII . The test sample is compared to control cells treated with an empty vector or an unrelated dominant negative protein that is targeted to another gene.

In another embodiment dominant negative protein regulation of endogenous gene expression is determined in vitro by measuring the level of target gene mRNA expression. The level of gene expression is measured using amplification e.g. using PCR LCR or hybridization assays e.g. northern hybridization RNase protection dot blotting. RNase protection is used in one embodiment see Example VIII and . The level of protein or mRNA is detected using directly or indirectly labeled detection agents e.g. fluorescently or radioactively labeled nucleic acids radioactively or enzymatically labeled antibodies and the like as described herein.

Alternatively a reporter gene system can be devised using the target gene promoter operably linked to a reporter gene such as luciferase green fluorescent protein CAT or gal. The reporter construct is typically co transfected into a cultured cell. After treatment with the dominant negative protein of choice the amount of reporter gene transcription translation or activity is measured according to standard techniques known to those of skill in the art.

Another example of an assay format useful for monitoring dominant negative protein regulation of endogenous gene expression is performed in vivo. This assay is particularly useful for examining dominant negative proteins that inhibit expression of tumor promoting genes genes involved in tumor support such as neovascularization e.g. VEGF or that activate tumor suppressor genes such as p53. In this assay cultured tumor cells expressing the dominant negative protein of choice are injected subcutaneously into an immune compromised mouse such as an athymic mouse an irradiated mouse or a SCID mouse. After a suitable length of time preferably 4 8 weeks tumor growth is measured e.g. by volume or by its two largest dimensions and compared to the control. Tumors that have statistically significant reduction using e.g. Student s T test are said to have inhibited growth. Alternatively the extent of tumor neovascularization can also be measured. Immunoassays using endothelial cell specific antibodies are used to stain for vascularization of the tumor and the number of vessels in the tumor. Tumors that have a statistically significant reduction in the number of vessels using e.g. Student s T test are said to have inhibited neovascularization.

Transgenic and non transgenic animals are also used as a preferred embodiment for examining regulation of endogenous gene expression in vivo. Transgenic animals typically express the dominant negative protein of choice. Alternatively animals that transiently express the dominant negative protein of choice onto which the dominant negative protein has been administered in a delivery vehicle can be used. Regulation of endogenous gene expression is tested using any one of the assays described herein.

Conventional viral and non viral based gene transfer methods can be used to introduce nucleic acids encoding engineered dominant negative proteins in mammalian cells or target tissues. Such methods can be used to administer nucleic acids encoding dominant negative proteins to cells in vitro. Preferably the nucleic acids encoding dominant negative proteins are administered for in vivo or ex vivo gene therapy uses. Non viral vector delivery systems include DNA plasmids naked nucleic acid and nucleic acid complexed with a delivery vehicle such as a liposome. Viral vector delivery systems include DNA and RNA viruses which have either episomal or integrated genomes after delivery to the cell. For a review of gene therapy procedures see Anderson 256 808 813 1992 Nabel Feigner 11 211 217 1993 Mitani Caskey 11 162 166 1993 Dillon 11 167 175 1993 Miller 357 455 460 1992 Van Brunt 6 10 1149 1154 1988 Vigne 8 35 36 1995 Kremer Perricaudet 51 1 31 44 1995 Haddada et al. in Doerfler and B hm eds 1995 and Yu et al. 1 13 26 1994 .

Methods of non viral delivery of nucleic acids encoding engineered dominant negative proteins include lipofection microinjection ballistics virosomes liposomes immunoliposomes polycation or lipid nucleic acid conjugates naked DNA artificial virions and agent enhanced uptake of DNA. Lipofection is described in e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 049 386 U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 787 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 897 355 and lipofection reagents are sold commercially e.g. Transfectam and Lipofectin . Cationic and neutral lipids that are suitable for efficient receptor recognition lipofection of polynucleotides include those of Feigner WO 91 17424 WO 91 16024. Delivery can be to cells ex vivo administration or target tissues in vivo administration .

The preparation of lipid nucleic acid complexes including targeted liposomes such as immunolipid complexes is well known to one of skill in the art see e.g. Crystal 270 404 410 1995 Blaese et al. 2 291 297 1995 Behr et al. 5 382 389 1994 Remy et al. 5 647 654 1994 Gao et al. 2 710 722 1995 Ahmad et al. 52 4817 4820 1992 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 186 183 4 217 344 4 235 871 4 261 975 4 485 054 4 501 728 4 774 085 4 837 028 and 4 946 787 .

The use of RNA or DNA viral based systems for the delivery of nucleic acids encoding engineered dominant negative protein take advantage of highly evolved processes for targeting a virus to specific cells in the body and trafficking the viral payload to the nucleus. Viral vectors can be administered directly to patients in vivo or they can be used to treat cells in vitro and the modified cells are administered to patients ex vivo . Conventional viral based systems for the delivery of dominant negative proteins could include retroviral lentivirus adenoviral adeno associated and herpes simplex virus vectors for gene transfer. Viral vectors are currently the most efficient and versatile method of gene transfer in target cells and tissues. Integration in the host genome is possible with the retrovirus lentivirus and adeno associated virus gene transfer methods often resulting in long term expression of the inserted transgene. Additionally high transduction efficiencies have been observed in many different cell types and target tissues.

The tropism of a retrovirus can be altered by incorporating foreign envelope proteins expanding the potential target population of target cells. Lentiviral vectors are retroviral vector that are able to transduce or infect non dividing cells and typically produce high viral titers. Selection of a retroviral gene transfer system would therefore depend on the target tissue. Retroviral vectors are comprised of cis acting long terminal repeats with packaging capacity for up to 6 10 kb of foreign sequence. The minimum cis acting LTRs are sufficient for replication and packaging of the vectors which are then used to integrate the therapeutic gene into the target cell to provide permanent transgene expression. Widely used retroviral vectors include those based upon murine leukemia virus MuLV gibbon ape leukemia virus GaLV Simian Immuno deficiency virus SIV human immuno deficiency virus HIV and combinations thereof see e.g. Buchscher et al. 66 2731 2739 1992 Johann et al. 66 1635 1640 1992 Sommerfelt et al. 176 58 59 1990 Wilson et al. 63 2374 2378 1989 Miller et al. 65 2220 2224 1991 PCT US94 05700 .

In applications where transient expression of the dominant negative protein is preferred adenoviral based systems are typically used. Adenoviral based vectors are capable of very high transduction efficiency in many cell types and do not require cell division. With such vectors high titer and levels of expression have been obtained. This vector can be produced in large quantities in a relatively simple system. Adeno associated virus AAV vectors are also used to transduce cells with target nucleic acids e.g. in the in vitro production of nucleic acids and peptides and for in vivo and ex vivo gene therapy procedures see e.g. West et al. 160 38 47 1987 U.S. Pat. No. 4 797 368 WO 93 24641 Kotin 5 793 801 1994 Muzyczka 94 1351 1994 . Construction of recombinant AAV vectors are described in a number of publications including U.S. Pat. No. 5 173 414 Tratschin et al. 5 3251 3260 1985 Tratschin et al. 4 2072 2081 1984 Hermonat Muzyczka PNAS 81 6466 6470 1984 and Samulski et al. 63 03822 3828 1989 .

In particular at least six viral vector approaches are currently available for gene transfer in clinical trials with retroviral vectors by far the most frequently used system. All of these viral vectors utilize approaches that involve complementation of defective vectors by genes inserted into helper cell lines to generate the transducing agent.

pLASN and MFG S are examples are retroviral vectors that have been used in clinical trials Dunbar et al. 85 3048 305 1995 Kohn et al. 1 1017 102 1995 Malech et al. 94 22 12133 12138 1997 . PA317 pLASN was the first therapeutic vector used in a gene therapy trial. Blaese et al. 270 475 480 1995 . Transduction efficiencies of 50 or greater have been observed for MFG S packaged vectors. Ellem et al. 44 1 10 20 1997 Dranoff et al. 1 111 2 1997 .

Recombinant adeno associated virus vectors rAAV are a promising alternative gene delivery systems based on the defective and nonpathogenic parvovirus adeno associated type 2 virus. All vectors are derived from a plasmid that retains only the AAV 145 by inverted terminal repeats flanking the transgene expression cassette. Efficient gene transfer and stable transgene delivery due to integration into the genomes of the transduced cell are key features for this vector system. Wagner et al. 351 9117 1702 3 1998 Kearns et al. 9 748 55 1996 .

Replication deficient recombinant adenoviral vectors Ad are predominantly used for colon cancer gene therapy because they can be produced at high titer and they readily infect a number of different cell types Most adenovirus vectors are engineered such that a transgene replaces the Ad E1a E1b and E3 genes subsequently the replication defector vector is propagated in human 293 cells that supply deleted gene function in trans. Ad vectors can transduce multiply types of tissues in vivo including nondividing differentiated cells such as those found in the liver kidney and muscle system tissues. Conventional Ad vectors have a large carrying capacity. An example of the use of an Ad vector in a clinical trial involved polynucleotide therapy for antitumor immunization with intramuscular injection Sterman et al. 7 1083 9 1998 . Additional examples of the use of adenovirus vectors for gene transfer in clinical trials include Rosenecker et al. 24 1 5 10 1996 Sterman et al. 9 7 1083 1089 1998 Welsh et al. 2 205 18 1995 Alvarez et al. 5 597 613 1997 Topf et al. 5 507 513 1998 Sterman et al. 7 1083 1089 1998 .

Packaging cells are used to form virus particles that are capable of infecting a host cell Such cells include 293 cells which package adenovirus and 2 cells or PA317 cells which package retrovirus. Viral vectors used in gene therapy are usually generated by producer cell line that packages a nucleic acid vector into a viral particle. The vectors typically contain the minimal viral sequences required for packaging and subsequent integration into a host other viral sequences being replaced by an expression cassette for the protein to be expressed. The missing viral functions are supplied in trans by the packaging cell line. For example AAV vectors used in gene therapy typically only possess ITR sequences from the AAV genome which are required for packaging and integration into the host genome. Viral DNA is packaged in a cell line which contains a helper plasmid encoding the other AAV genes namely rep and cap but lacking ITR sequences. The cell line is also infected with adenovirus as a helper. The helper virus promotes replication of the AAV vector and expression of AAV genes from the helper plasmid. The helper plasmid is not packaged in significant amounts due to a lack of ITR sequences. Contamination with adenovirus can be reduced by e.g. heat treatment to which adenovirus is more sensitive than AAV.

In many gene therapy applications it is desirable that the gene therapy vector be delivered with a high degree of specificity to a particular tissue type. A viral vector is typically modified to have specificity for a given cell type by expressing a ligand as a fusion protein with a viral coat protein on the viruses outer surface. The ligand is chosen to have affinity for a receptor known to be present on the cell type of interest. For example Han et al. 92 9747 9751 1995 reported that Moloney murine leukemia virus can be modified to express human heregulin fused to gp70 and the recombinant virus infects certain human breast cancer cells expressing human epidermal growth factor receptor. This principle can be extended to other pairs of virus expressing a ligand fusion protein and target cell expressing a receptor. For example filamentous phage can be engineered to display antibody fragments e.g. FAB or Fv having specific binding affinity for virtually any chosen cellular receptor. Although the above description applies primarily to viral vectors the same principles can be applied to nonviral vectors. Such vectors can be engineered to contain specific uptake sequences thought to favor uptake by specific target cells.

Gene therapy vectors can be delivered in vivo by administration to an individual patient typically by systemic administration e.g. intravenous intraperitoneal intramuscular subdermal or intracranial infusion or topical application as described below. Alternatively vectors can be delivered to cells ex vivo such as cells explanted from an individual patient e.g. lymphocytes bone marrow aspirates tissue biopsy or universal donor hematopoietic stem cells followed by reimplantation of the cells into a patient usually after selection for cells which have incorporated the vector.

Ex vivo cell transfection for diagnostics research or for gene therapy e.g. via re infusion of the transfected cells into the host organism is well known to those of skill in the art. In a preferred embodiment cells are isolated from the subject organism transfected with a dominant negative protein nucleic acid gene or cDNA and re infused back into the subject organism e.g. patient . Various cell types suitable for ex vivo transfection are well known to those of skill in the art see e.g. Freshney et al. 3rd ed. 1994 and the references cited therein for a discussion of how to isolate and culture cells from patients .

In one embodiment stem cells are used in ex vivo procedures for cell transfection and gene therapy. The advantage to using stem cells is that they can be differentiated into other cell types in vitro or can be introduced into a mammal such as the donor of the cells where they will engraft in the bone marrow. Methods for differentiating CD34 cells in vitro into clinically important immune cell types using cytokines such a GM CSF IFN and TNF are known see Inaba et al. 176 1693 1702 1992 .

Stem cells are isolated for transduction and differentiation using known methods. For example stem cells are isolated from bone marrow cells by panning the bone marrow cells with antibodies which bind unwanted cells such as CD4 and CD8 T cells CD45 panB cells GR 1 granulocytes and Tad differentiated antigen presenting cells see Inaba et al. 176 1693 1702 1992 .

Vectors e.g. retroviruses adenoviruses liposomes etc. containing therapeutic dominant negative protein nucleic acids can be also administered directly to the organism for transduction of cells in vivo. Alternatively naked DNA can be administered. Administration is by any of the routes normally used for introducing a molecule into ultimate contact with blood or tissue cells. Suitable methods of administering such nucleic acids are available and well known to those of skill in the art and although more than one route can be used to administer a particular composition a particular route can often provide a more immediate and more effective reaction than another route.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are determined in part by the particular composition being administered as well as by the particular method used to administer the composition. Accordingly there is a wide variety of suitable formulations of pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention as described below see e.g. 17th ed. 1989 .

An important factor in the administration of polypeptide compounds such as the dominant negative proteins of the present invention is ensuring that the polypeptide has the ability to traverse the plasma membrane of a cell or the membrane of an intra cellular compartment such as the nucleus. Cellular membranes are composed of lipid protein bilayers that are freely permeable to small nonionic lipophilic compounds and are inherently impermeable to polar compounds macromolecules and therapeutic or diagnostic agents. However proteins and other compounds such as liposomes have been described which have the ability to translocate polypeptides such as dominant negative proteins across a cell membrane.

For example membrane translocation polypeptides have amphiphilic or hydrophobic amino acid subsequences that have the ability to act as membrane translocating carriers. In one embodiment homeodomain proteins have the ability to translocate across cell membranes. The shortest internalizable peptide of a homeodomain protein Antennapedia was found to be the third helix of the protein from amino acid position 43 to 58 see e.g. Prochiantz 6 629 634 1996 . Another subsequence the h hydrophobic domain of signal peptides was found to have similar cell membrane translocation characteristics see e.g. Lin et al. 270 1 4255 14258 1995 .

Examples of peptide sequences which can be linked to a dominant negative protein of the invention for facilitating uptake of dominant negative protein into cells include but are not limited to an 11 animo acid peptide of the tat protein of HIV a 20 residue peptide sequence which corresponds to amino acids 84 103 of the p16 protein see Fahraeus et al. 6 84 1996 the third helix of the 60 amino acid long homeodomain of Antennapedia Derossi et al. 269 10444 1994 the h region of a signal peptide such as the Kaposi fibroblast growth factor K FGF h region Lin et al. supra or the VP22 translocation domain from HSV Elliot O Hare 88 223 233 1997 . Other suitable chemical moieties that provide enhanced cellular uptake may also be chemically linked to dominant negative proteins. For example nuclear localization signals may be appended to enhance uptake into the nuclear compartment of cells.

Toxin molecules also have the ability to transport polypeptides across cell membranes. Often such molecules are composed of at least two parts called binary toxins a translocation or binding domain or polypeptide and a separate toxin domain or polypeptide. Typically the translocation domain or polypeptide binds to a cellular receptor and then the toxin is transported into the cell. Several bacterial toxins including iota toxin diphtheria toxin DT exotoxin A PE pertussis toxin PT toxin and pertussis adenylate cyclase CYA have been used in attempts to deliver peptides to the cell cytosol as internal or amino terminal fusions Arora et al. 268 3334 3341 1993 Perelle et al. 61 5147 5156 1993 Stenmark et al. 113 1025 1032 1991 Donnelly et al. 90 3530 3534 1993 Carbonetti et al. 95 295 1995 Sebo et al. 63 3851 3857 1995 Klimpel et al. 89 10277 10281 1992 and Novak et al. 267 17186 17193 1992 .

Such subsequences can be used to translocate dominant negative proteins across a cell membrane. Dominant negative proteins can be conveniently fused to or derivatized with such sequences. Typically the translocation sequence is provided as part of a fusion protein. Optionally a linker can be used to link the dominant negative protein and the translocation sequence. Any suitable linker can be used e.g. a peptide linker.

The dominant negative protein can also be introduced into an animal cell preferably a mammalian cell via a liposomes and liposome derivatives such as immunoliposomes. The term liposome refers to vesicles comprised of one or more concentrically ordered lipid bilayers which encapsulate an aqueous phase. The aqueous phase typically contains the compound to be delivered to the cell i.e. a dominant negative protein.

The liposome fuses with the plasma membrane thereby releasing the drug into the cytosol. Alternatively the liposome is phagocytosed or taken up by the cell in a transport vesicle. Once in the endosome or phagosome the liposome either degrades or fuses with the membrane of the transport vesicle and releases its contents.

In current methods of drug delivery via liposomes the liposome ultimately becomes permeable and releases the encapsulated compound in this case a dominant negative protein at the target tissue or cell. For systemic or tissue specific delivery this can be accomplished for example in a passive manner wherein the liposome bilayer degrades over time through the action of various agents in the body. Alternatively active drug release involves using an agent to induce a permeability change in the liposome vesicle. Liposome membranes can be constructed so that they become destabilized when the environment becomes acidic near the liposome membrane see e.g. 84 7851 1987 28 908 1989 . When liposomes are endocytosed by a target cell for example they become destabilized and release their contents. This destabilization is termed fusogenesis. Dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine DOPE is the basis of many fusogenic systems.

Such liposomes typically comprise a dominant negative protein and a lipid component e.g. a neutral and or cationic lipid optionally including a receptor recognition molecule such as an antibody that binds to a predetermined cell surface receptor or ligand e.g. an antigen . A variety of methods are available for preparing liposomes as described in e.g. Szoka et al. 9 467 1980 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 186 183 4 217 344 4 235 871 4 261 975 4 485 054 4 501 728 4 774 085 4 837 028 4 235 871 4 261 975 4 485 054 4 501 728 4 774 085 4 837 028 4 946 787 PCT Publication No. WO 91 17424 Deamer Bangham 443 629 634 1976 Fraley et al. 76 3348 3352 1979 Hope et al. 812 55 65 1985 Mayer et al. 858 161 168 1986 Williams et al. 85 242 246 1988 Liposomes Ostro ed. 1983 Chapter 1 Hope et al. 40 89 1986 Gregoriadis 1984 and Lasic 1993 . Suitable methods include for example sonication extrusion high pressure homogenization microfluidization detergent dialysis calcium induced fusion of small liposome vesicles and ether fusion methods all of which are well known in the art.

In certain embodiments of the present invention it is desirable to target the liposomes of the invention using targeting moieties that are specific to a particular cell type tissue and the like. Targeting of liposomes using a variety of targeting moieties e.g. ligands receptors and monoclonal antibodies has been previously described see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 957 773 and 4 603 044 .

Examples of targeting moieties include monoclonal antibodies specific to antigens associated with neoplasms such as prostate cancer specific antigen and MAGE. Tumors can also be diagnosed by detecting gene products resulting from the activation or over expression of oncogenes such as ras or c erbB2. In addition many tumors express antigens normally expressed by fetal tissue such as the alphafetoprotein AFP and carcinoembryonic antigen CEA . Sites of viral infection can be diagnosed using various viral antigens such as hepatitis B core and surface antigens HBVc HBVs hepatitis C antigens Epstein Barr virus antigens human immunodeficiency type 1 virus HIV1 and papilloma virus antigens. Inflammation can be detected using molecules specifically recognized by surface molecules which are expressed at sites of inflammation such as integrins e.g. VCAM 1 selectin receptors e.g. ELAM 1 and the like.

Standard methods for coupling targeting agents to liposomes can be used. These methods generally involve incorporation into liposomes lipid components e.g. phosphatidylethanolamine which can be activated for attachment of targeting agents or derivatized lipophilic compounds such as lipid derivatized bleomycin. Antibody targeted liposomes can be constructed using for instance liposomes which incorporate protein A see Renneisen et al. 265 16337 16342 1990 and Leonetti et al. 87 2448 2451 1990 .

For therapeutic applications of dominant negative proteins the dose administered to a patient in the context of the present invention should be sufficient to effect a beneficial therapeutic response in the patient over time. In addition particular dosage regimens can be useful for determining phenotypic changes in an experimental setting e.g. in functional genomics studies and in cell or animal models. The dose will be determined by the condition of the patient as well as the body weight or surface area of the patient to be treated. The size of the dose also will be determined by the existence nature and extent of any adverse side effects that accompany the administration of a particular compound or vector in a particular patient.

The appropriate dose of an expression vector encoding a dominant negative protein can also be calculated by taking into account the average rate of dominant negative protein expression from the promoter and the average rate of dominant negative protein degradation in the cell. Preferably a weak promoter such as a wild type or mutant HSV TK is used.

In determining the effective amount of a dominant negative protein to be administered in the treatment or prophylaxis of disease the physician evaluates circulating plasma levels of the dominant negative protein or nucleic acid encoding the dominant negative protein potential dominant negative protein toxicities progression of the disease and the production of anti dominant negative protein antibodies. Administration can be accomplished via single or divided doses.

Dominant negative proteins and expression vectors encoding dominant negative proteins can be administered directly to the patient for modulation of gene expression and for therapeutic or prophylactic applications for example cancer ischemia diabetic retinopathy macular degeneration rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis HIV infection sickle cell anemia Alzheimer s disease muscular dystrophy neurodegenerative diseases vascular disease cystic fibrosis stroke and the like. Examples of microorganisms that can be inhibited by dominant negative protein gene therapy include pathogenic bacteria e.g. chlamydia rickettsial bacteria mycobacteria staphylococci streptococci pneumococci meningococci and conococci pseudomonas bacilli cholera tetanus botulism anthrax plague leptospirosis and Lyme disease bacteria infectious fungus e.g. species protozoa such as sporozoa e.g. rhizopods e.g. and flagellates etc. viral diseases e.g. hepatitis A B or C herpes virus e.g. VZV HSV 1 HSV 6 HSV II CMV and EBV HIV Ebola adenovirus influenza virus flaviviruses echovirus rhinovirus coxsackie virus coronavirus respiratory syncytial virus mumps virus rotavirus measles virus rubella virus parvovirus vaccinia virus HTLV virus dengue virus papillomavirus poliovirus rabies virus and arboviral encephalitis virus etc.

Administration of therapeutically effective amounts is by any of the routes normally used for introducing dominant negative protein into ultimate contact with the tissue to be treated. The dominant negative proteins are administered in any suitable manner preferably with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. Suitable methods of administering such modulators are available and well known to those of skill in the art and although more than one route can be used to administer a particular composition a particular route can often provide a more immediate and more effective reaction than another route.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are determined in part by the particular composition being administered as well as by the particular method used to administer the composition. Accordingly there is a wide variety of suitable formulations of pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention see e.g. 17ed. 1985 .

The dominant negative proteins alone or in combination with other suitable components can be made into aerosol formulations i.e. they can be nebulized to be administered via inhalation. Aerosol formulations can be placed into pressurized acceptable propellants such as dichlorodifluoromethane propane nitrogen and the like.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration such as for example by intravenous intramuscular intradermal and subcutaneous routes include aqueous and non aqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions which can contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions that can include suspending agents solubilizers thickening agents stabilizers and preservatives. In the practice of this invention compositions can be administered for example by intravenous infusion orally topically intraperitoneally intravesically or intrathecally. The formulations of compounds can be presented in unit dose or multi dose sealed containers such as ampules and vials. Injection solutions and suspensions can be prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described.

Dominant negative proteins also have use for assays to determine the phenotypic consequences and function of gene expression. The recent advances in analytical techniques coupled with focussed mass sequencing efforts have created the opportunity to identify and characterize many more molecular targets than were previously available. This new information about genes and their functions will speed along basic biological understanding and present many new targets for therapeutic intervention. In some cases analytical tools have not kept pace with the generation of new data. An example is provided by recent advances in the measurement of global differential gene expression. These methods typified by gene expression microarrays differential cDNA cloning frequencies subtractive hybridization and differential display methods can very rapidly identify genes that are up or down regulated in different tissues or in response to specific stimuli. Increasingly such methods are being used to explore biological processes such as transformation tumor progression the inflammatory response neurological disorders etc. One can now very easily generate long lists of differentially expressed genes that correlate with a given physiological phenomenon but demonstrating a causative relationship between an individual differentially expressed gene and the phenomenon is difficult. Until now simple methods for assigning function to differentially expressed genes have not kept pace with the ability to monitor differential gene expression.

Using conventional molecular approaches over expression of a candidate gene can be accomplished by cloning a full length cDNA subcloning it into a mammalian expression vector and transfecting the recombinant vector into an appropriate host cell. This approach is straightforward but labor intensive particularly when the initial candidate gene is represented by a simple expressed sequence tag EST . Under expression of a candidate gene by conventional methods is yet more problematic. Antisense methods and methods that rely on targeted ribozymes are unreliable succeeding for only a small fraction of the targets selected. Gene knockout by homologous recombination works fairly well in recombinogenic stem cells but very inefficiently in somatically derived cell lines. In either case large clones of syngeneic genomic DNA on the order of 10 kb should be isolated for recombination to work efficiently.

The dominant negative protein technology can be used to rapidly analyze differential gene expression studies. Engineered dominant negative proteins can be readily used to up or down regulate any endogenous target gene. This makes the dominant negative protein technology ideal for analysis of long lists of poorly characterized differentially expressed genes.

This specific example of using engineered dominant negative proteins to add functional information to genomic data is merely illustrative. Any experimental situation that could benefit from the specific up or down regulation of a gene or genes could benefit from the reliability and ease of use of engineered dominant negative proteins.

Additionally greater experimental control can be imparted by dominant negative proteins than can be achieved by more conventional methods. This is because the production and or function of an engineered dominant negative protein can be placed under small molecule control. Examples of this approach are provided by the Tet On system the ecdysone regulated system and a system incorporating a chimeric factor including a mutant progesterone receptor. These systems are all capable of indirectly imparting small molecule control on any endogenous gene of interest or any transgene by placing the function and or expression of a dominant negative protein under small molecule control.

A further application of the dominant negative protein technology is manipulating gene expression in transgenic animals. Conventional down regulation of gene expression in transgenic animals is plagued by technical difficulties. Gene knockout by homologous recombination is the method most commonly applied currently. This method requires a relatively long genomic clone of the gene to be knocked out ca. 10 kb . Typically a selectable marker is inserted into an exon of the gene of interest to effect the gene disruption and a second counter selectable marker provided outside of the region of homology to select homologous versus non homologous recombinants. This construct is transfected into embryonic stem cells and recombinants selected in culture. Recombinant stem cells are combined with very early stage embryos generating chimeric animals. If the chimerism extends to the germline homozygous knockout animals can be isolated by back crossing. When the technology is successfully applied knockout animals can be generated in approximately one year. Unfortunately two common issues often prevent the successful application of the knockout technology embryonic lethality and developmental compensation. Embryonic lethality results when the gene to be knocked out plays an essential role in development. This can manifest itself as a lack of chimerism lack of germline transmission or the inability to generate homozygous back crosses. Genes can play significantly different physiological roles during development versus in adult animals. Therefore embryonic lethality is not considered a rationale for dismissing a gene target as a useful target for therapeutic intervention in adults. Embryonic lethality most often simply means that the gene of interest can not be easily studied in mouse models using conventional methods.

Developmental compensation is the substitution of a related gene product for the gene product being knocked out. Genes often exist in extensive families. Selection or induction during the course of development can in some cases trigger the substitution of one family member for another mutant member. This type of functional substitution may not be possible in the adult animal. A typical result of developmental compensation would be the lack of a phenotype in a knockout mouse when the ablation of that gene s function in an adult would otherwise cause a physiological change. This is a kind of false negative result that often confounds the interpretation of conventional knockout mouse models.

A few new methods have been developed to avoid embryonic lethality. These methods are typified by an approach using the cre recombinase and lox DNA recognition elements. The recognition elements are inserted into a gene of interest using homologous recombination as described above and the expression of the recombinase induced in adult mice post development. This causes the deletion of a portion of the target gene and avoids developmental complications. The method is labor intensive and suffers form chimerism due to non uniform induction of the recombinase.

The use of engineered dominant negative proteins to manipulate gene expression can be restricted to adult animals using the small molecule regulated systems described in the previous section. Expression and or function of a dominant negative protein can be switched off during development and switched on at will in the adult animals. This approach relies on the expression of the dominant negative protein only homologous recombination is not required. Because the dominant negative proteins are trans dominant there is no concern about germline transmission or homozygosity. These issues dramatically affect the time and labor required to go from a poorly characterized gene candidate a cDNA or EST clone to a mouse model. This ability can be used to rapidly identify and or validate gene targets for therapeutic intervention generate novel model systems and permit the analysis of complex physiological phenomena development hematopoiesis transformation neural function etc. . Chimeric targeted mice can be derived according to Hogan et al. 1988 Robertson ed. 1987 and Capecchi et al. 244 1288 1989 .

All publications and patent applications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

The following examples are provided by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of noncritical parameters that could be changed or modified to yield essentially similar results.

The Tat hybrid assay in which Tat fused to a heterologous RNA binding domain RBD elicits activation of an HIV 1 LTR reporter plasmid containing a cognate RNA binding site has been useful for studying RNA protein interactions in living cells. However as with other types of fusion protein assays dominant negative proteins can be generated unintentionally that score as false negatives. We discovered a novel class of highly potent dominant negatives exemplified by Tat fusions to splicing factors whose potency appears to be dictated by cotranscriptional recruitment to the HIV promoter.

We devised a dual fluorescence Tat hybrid assay to monitor RNA binding specificity using two pairs of orthogonal reporters and Tat fusions herein referred to as T fusions. To calibrate the assay T BIV a fusion between the HIV Tat activation domain AD and the RBD of bovine immunodeficiency virus BIV Tat was used to activate a BIV TAR BTAR DsRed reporter while T SF1 a Tat fusion to human splicing factor SF1 was used to activate a branch point sequence BPS GFP reporter . When transfected on their own both T BIVand T SF1 strongly activated only their cognate RNA reporters. Strikingly however activation via the T BIV BTAR interaction was strongly inhibited when both T fusions were co transfected 3 fold activation whereas activation via the T SF1 BPS interaction was unafected 170 fold .

Using a more quantitative luciferase reporter we found that inhibition was remarkably potent with a stoichiometric amount of T SF1 plasmid DNA 5 ng sufficient to almost completely block activation mediated by the BIV Tat BTAR interaction . The dose response of inhibition by T SF1 mirrors activation of a BPS reporter demonstrating that T SF1 functions as an activator through its cognate RNA binding site. We confirmed that the high potency observed in the transfection experiments accurately reflected relative protein stoichiometries by Western blot analysis of HA tagged Tat activator and dominant negative proteins . It is clear that the high potency results from the fusion as SF1 alone does not inhibit Tat activation data not shown and it is known that the Tat AD without an RBD is a very weak dominant negative. Given that several splicing factors including SF1 and U2AF65 interact with CTD associated factors or directly with RNAP II we hypothesized that the SF1 moiety targets the T fusion to RNAP II. We propose a model in which this recruitment step increases the local concentration of the non activating T fusion at the HIV promoter thereby out competing the wild type Tat activator see below .

If the targeting hypothesis is correct then T fusions to other RNAP II localized splicing factors might show a similar phenotype. Indeed T U2AF65 is an even more potent inhibitor left panel . U2AF65 fusions to either full length Tat or the Tat AD are equally potent showing that the Tat RBD is dispensable for the dominant negative function. T U2AF65 also is a potent inhibitor of Tat activation when mediated by the Rev RRE IIB RNA interaction right panel further demonstrating that the inhibitor functions independently of the RNA protein interaction. The Tat AD alone is a poor inhibitor again showing the requirement of the targeting moiety. Besides splicing factors other proteins interact with RNAP II before during or after pre initiation complex PIC formation including other RNA processing proteins that are co transcriptionally recruited to the CTD. T fusions to some but not all of these factors inhibited Tat mediated activation to different extents but none was as potent as T U2AF65 .

The specificity of inhibition for the HIV promoter was assessed by measuring effects of T U2AF65 on other reporter activator combinations. No inhibition was observed in any case including activation by the P TEFb dependent MHC class II transactivator CIITA and heat shock factor 1 HSF1 as well as p53 and GAL4 VP16 and constitutive expression from the cytomegalovirus CMV promoter . Furthermore no inhibition of cellular promoters was observed in stable cell lines expressing T U2AF65 .

To begin examining the effect of localization on inhibitor activity we first asked whether nuclear localization alone might account for some of its potency particularly because a variety of T fusions showed activity albeit not as strong as T U2AF65 . We generated T fusions to GFP with or without a nuclear localization signal NLS and observed very weak dominant negative activity for the AD fusion alone T GFP and only slightly enhanced inhibition for T NLS GFP . This result is consistent with the mild dominant negative phenotype observed for a Tat 1 53 truncation mutant that deletes part of the RNA binding domain but still retains an NLS. In contrast T U2AF65 GFP is a highly potent inhibitor indicating that nuclear localization is not the major factor contributing to potency. T GFP is distributed in the cytoplasm and nucleus like unfused GFP whereas T NLS GFP is greater than 95 nuclear and absent from the nucleolus as expected . T U2AF65 GFP shows a striking subnuclear pattern of speckle associated patches . Related patterns are seen with RS domain containing proteins which include U2AF65 prompting us to examine the domains of T U2AF65 important for inhibition.

The RS domains of U2AF65 and other splicing factors help recruit these proteins to regions of active splicing within the nucleusand also are believed to interact with RNAP II during transcription complex asembly. The presence of RNAP II and splicing and mRNA export factors suggests an active role for the speckle associated patches in mRNA processing although they are otherwise considered mainly as storage sites for factors involved in mRNA metabolism. To test the possible involvement of RS domains in dominant negative inhibition we generated a T fusion lacking the RS domain T U2AF65 RS which contains U2AF65 residues 91 475 and a second with the RS domain alone T RS which contains U2AF65 residues 2 73 . Of these only T RS remained a potent inhibitor . T RS shows a speckle pattern even more striking than full length T U2AF65 with T RS concentrated in only about 10 30 speckles. To confirm that the Tat AD also is important for inhibition we generated T U2AF65 and T RS mutants with a Lys41 to Ala substitution in the AD that disrupts interactions with transcriptional co activators particularly P TEFb. Both are inactive as inhibitors despite having the same localization patterns as the non mutant versions and . U2AF65 RS domain fusions to other transcriptional ADs including VP16 and E1A do not inhibit Tat mediated activation D Orso and Frankel unpublished observations further demonstrating the specificity of inhibition and the requirement for the Tat AD. Thus both an RS domain and a functional Tat AD are necessary and sufficient to generate the potent dominant negative phenotype. We envisage a model in which the U2AF65 RS domain targets the T fusion to subnuclear compartments speckles where transcription complexes are assembling thereby facilitating the interaction of the Tat AD with one or more factors of the transcriptional machinery assembling at the HIV promoter.

To examine the recruitment of T U2AF65 to the transcriptional machinery we first analyzed possible interactions with RNAP II by co immunoprecipitation using antibodies against the Ser5 phosphorylated CTD Ser5P CTD known as RNAP IIa. T U2AF65 GFP as well as the K41A Tat AD mutant are complexed with RNAP IIa in a RNA independent manner . Strikingly no interaction is seen with T NLS GFP lacking the U2AF65 moiety despite the reported interaction of Tat with RNAP II in vitro. Identical results were obtained using antibodies that recognize RNAPII with unphosphorylated CTD data not shown . Thus it appears that the U2AF65 RS moiety localizes the inhibitor to transcription complexes more efficiently than the Tat AD consistent with the observations that U2AF65 interacts with RNAP IIand that fusing an RS domain to a cytoplasmic reporter protein results in nuclear localization and interaction with RNAP II. The interaction with RNAP II was confirmed by immunofluorescence in which T U2AF65 GFP was seen to co localize with both unphosphorylated and Ser5P CTD forms of polymerase . Partial co localization 18 was observed with SC35 a marker of speckle associated patches. Consistent with the hypothesis that the RS domain drives the interaction with RNAP II T RS GFP showed the same co localization as the full length U2AF65 T fusion data not shown . In addition to interacting with RNAP II T U2AF65 GFP also is complexed to P TEFb as is the Tat AD fusion without the U2AF65 moiety. The Tat AD K41A mutation known to abrogate the Tat cyclin T1 interaction eliminates the interaction of T U2AF65 GFP with P TEFb supporting the hypothesis that inhibitor potency results from bivalent interactions involving both the Tat AD and RS domain.

A primary function of Tat is to enhance transcription elongationbut it also participates in pre initiation complex assembly. RNase protection experiments using promoter proximal Pp and distal Pd probes indicate that the T U2AF65 dominant negative primarily inhibits elongation . Tat transfected into HeLa cells substantially enhances transcription in the Pd but not Pp region of a luciferase reporter compare lanes 1 and 2 as previously reported 3 whereas a stoichiometric amount of co transfected T U2AF65 reduces transcription in the Pd region to basal levels but does not effect Pp transcription lane 3 . Inhibition is dose responsive data not shown and requires the U2AF65 moiety as the Tat AD alone shows little inhibition lane 4 . We next used chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP assays to examine recruitment of RNAP II Tat and T U2AF65 to the HIV promoter and to test the hypothesis that the inhibitor is efficiently localized to the promoter. To assess complex assembly in an integrated chromatin context we generated a stable HeLa cell line carrying an LTR RREIIB FFL reporter which was strongly activated by T Rev 215 fold and inhibited by T U2AF65 in a dose responsive manner . In the absence of T Rev RNAP II is detected in the Pp but not Pd region panel 1 implying a block to elongation while RNAP II is seen in both regions following T Rev transfection panel 2 as previously reported. The level of RNAP II detected in the Pp region increases 5 fold in the presence of Tat consistent with the proposed role of Tat in transcription complex assembly. The T Rev HA activator was also detected in the Pp region panel 2 but notably the T U2AF65 GFP inhibitor showed even higher occupancy panel 3 consistent with the observation that U2AF65 can be detected in the Pp region in the absence of Tat. To more directly evaluate competition between the activator and inhibitor we co transfected both plasmids and observed strong occupancy of T U2AF65 GFP in the Pp region whereas no T Rev HA could be detected panel 4 . Furthermore the Tat AD alone without the U2AF65 moiety was not detectable at the promoter panel 5 T NLS GFP . Thus the ChIP experiments support the hypothesis that the T U2AF65 inhibitor is recruited to the HIV promoter through an interaction with RNAP II efficiently pre loading the inhibitor into transcription complexes and blocking entry of the Tat activator.

The specificity of dominant negative inhibition for the HIV promoter is clear but the co localization data suggest that a substantial amount of RNAP II interacts with the inhibitor prompting us to test whether T U2AF65 is recruited to other promoters. Of five cellular promoters analyzed by ChIP including the P TEFb dependent MHC class II and hsp70 promoters only hsp70 showed any detectable T U2AF65 GFP unlike the high occupancy observed at the HIV promoter . These data indicate that the efficiency of T U2AF65 recruitment involves interactions other than to RNAP II likely including interactions with PTEFb and other factors in the transcription machinery.

The high potency of the Tat dominant negatives and the requirement of Tat for viral replication suggested that they might be effective HIV inhibitors. To analyze this we generated SupT1 lymphocyte cell lines stably expressing T U2AF65 T HIV U2AF65 or T BIV U2AF65 dominant negatives or the non fusion controls Tat Tat T BIV or U2AF65 and monitored HIV replication rates using viruses dependent on either the HIV or BIV Tat TAR interactions. We observed striking specificity of the dominant negatives in which replication was inhibited only in viruses driven by a non cognate RNA protein interaction. Expression of T U2AF65 which contains no TAR RNA binding domain markedly suppressed replication of both viruses compared to the Tator U2AF65 controls with no p24 antigen detectable until 18 20 days after infection and . Expression of T HIV U2AF65 or T BIV U2AF65 inhibited replication of the non cognate virus to a similar extent as T U2AF65 and showed only a slight inhibitory effect on the cognate virus and . Interestingly expression of the Tat or T BIVactivators actually accelerated replication of the cognate but not non cognate viruses suggesting that Tat levels in these viruses are limiting and or Tat may benefit viral adaptability. In the inhibitor cell lines virus that emerged after 18 20 days displayed slow replication kinetics and reached a low plateau of p24 expression that remained constant for at least 110 days and without producing cytophatic effects. Viral stocks harveted from these cell lines after 30 days displayed identical growth kinetics as the original stock upon re infection . Sequencing of integrated viral DNA showed no mutations in the LTR or Tat indicating that the viruses do not acquire resistance mutations during this time period but rather grow poorly under these conditions of dominant negative inhibitor expression.

To assess whether the RBD of Tat contributes to the dominant negative activity we generated U2AF65 fusions to full length Tat or Tatand measured their effects using an LTR BTAR RL reporter and Tat BIVactivator. Indeed both T HIV U2AF65 and T U2AF65 inhibited activation more than 10 fold at sub stoichiometric plasmid DNA levels relative to the activator . Tatwithout tethered U2AF65 showed little inhibition. Similarly full length Tat is a weak dominant negative inhibitor of BIV Tat TAR mediated activation consistent with a previous report 1 . In a converse experiment activation of an LTR HTAR FFL reporter by Tat HIVis potently inhibited by T U2AF65 and T BIV U2AF65 but not by un fused Tator T BIV . Additional control experiments showed that T HIV U2AF65 and T BIV U2AF65 fusion proteins activated expression of their cognate reporters to about 50 of the un fused protein levels and that expression of non Tat fused U2AF65 did not inhibit activation data not shown .

Immunofluorescence experiments showed that the T Rev activator and T U2AF65 dominant negative were expressed similarly and localized to the nucleus . We analyzed protein levels more quantitatively by Western blot using HA tagged proteins and confirmed that stoichiometric plasmid levels express similar amounts of protein . Thus the high potency of T U2AF65 is striking given that the best reported dominant negative Tat inhibitors require more than 5 fold higher inhibitor levels to reduce activation by less than 10 fold 2 4 .

The potent inhibition observed with T SF1 and T U2AF65 prompted us to evaluate whether fusions to other transcription or RNA processing factors might also act as dominant negatives. While T SF1 was slightly less potent than T U2AF65 a fusion to the SR protein 9G8 T 9G8 was nearly as potent as T U2AF65 . Fusions to the CstF1 polyadenylation factor known to be recruited to the CTD 5 6 and to an hnRNP A1 fusion containing RRM RBDs also showed some modest inhibition about 4 fold . In contrast fusions to the DNA binding transcription factors Spl or RelA showed relatively little inhibition about 2 fold consistent with a previous report showing little inhibitory effect by fusing Tat to other DNA binding factors 7 . T TAF8 also showed no inhibition consistent with the proposal that Tat activation is exerted through a TFIID containing TBP complex but independent of TBP associated factors TAFs 8 . All T fusions were nuclear and expressed at similar levels as judged by indirect immunofluorescence except that T RelA showed more prominent perinuclear localization in the absence of TNF activation. Thus T fusions to splicing factors containing RS domains T U2AF65 and T 9G8 are the most potent inhibitors.

Deleting the RS domain of T U2AF65 eliminates dominant negative activity see T U2AF65 RS in and its subcellular localization is strikingly different . While T U2AF65 shows speckle associated patches typical of splicing factors U2AF65 RS is spread throughout the nucleoplasm. To evaluate whether the Tat or U2AF65 moieties were responsible for these localization patterns we first compared localization of T U2AF65 GFP U2FA65 GFP and the inactive T K41A U2AF65 GFP variant . All three are localized similarly in speckles Spk implying that U2AF65 drives the localization of the dominant negative and that localization is necessary but not sufficient for inhibition.

An even more striking subnuclear localization pattern is seen for T RS GFP bearing only the U2AF65 RS domain in which only a few 10 30 bright clusters are observed . Again the Tat AD K41A mutation does not alter its localization. Interestingly an RS GFP fusion lacking the Tat AD is no longer localized to speckles but rather to nucleoli suggesting that both the AD and RS domains of T RS contribute to its speckle localization in this shorter context. Deletion of the RS domain in both U2AF65 and T U2AF65 also eliminates localization to speckles and shows a nuclear pattern with nucleolar exclusion further highlighting the importance of the RS domain for speckle localization.

To assess expression levels of the Tat activators Tat Tatand T BIV and dominant negative inhibitors T U2AF65 T HIV U2AF65 and T BIV U2AF65 in the stable SupT1 populations used for the viral replication assays we first determined mRNA steady state levels for each protein by quantitative real time RT PCR using two sets of primers that amplify Tat or U2AF65 portions of the mRNAs. While the RNA expression levels varied widely between samples all were clearly detectable with the SupT1 Tat population expressing the highest levels normalized expression level of 370 units followed by T BIV 120 units Tat 100 units Tat U2AF65 and T BIV U2AF65 35 units and Tat U2AF65 7 units . We next characterized expression in a more functional assay in vivo by transfecting each stable cell population with an activatable GFP reporter depending on the Tat protein expressed and monitored activity by flow cytometry data not shown . All stable SupT1 populations expressing the full length Tat moiety activated an LTR HTAR GFP reporter varying from 9 20 fold while cell lines expressing Tatdid not activate. Stable cell populations expressing T BIVactivated an LTR BTAR GFP reporter about 7 9 fold but not an LTR HTAR GFP reporter. The Tat U2AF65 expressing population weakly activated an LTR BPS GFP reporter through its polypyrimidine tract PPT binding site 9 . This weak activity likely reflected the generally lower activation observed with the U2AF65 PPT interaction 9 and probably the low transfection efficiency of the SupT1 cells. Thus expression of each Tat or Tat fusion protein could be confirmed by RT PCR and functional assays but expression levels generally appeared low as expected for a stable cell population transduced by a retrovirus but not clonally selected 10 . Weak expression was further confirmed by Western blot and immunofluorescence analysis using an anti Tat antibody where expression was virtually undetectable data not shown .

We also estimated the activities of the integrated dominant negatives in the SupT1 cell lines using functional assays. Cells were co transfected with a fixed amount of the LTR HTAR FFL or LTR BTAR FFL reporter and varying concentrations of the corresponding Tat activator and levels of inhibition were measured. For example SupT1 cells expressing T U2AF65 and T BIV U2AF65 were co transfected with the LTR HTAR FFL reporter and HIV Tat and no significant activation was observed at low levels 0.1 1 ng of transfected activator . Significant activation was observed with higher 5 20 ng plasmid amounts further confirming that the cell lines do not express very large amount of protein and consequently do not block Tat activity completely. It seems probable that more highly expressing dominant negative cell lines can be identified through cloning that would result in even more effective viral inhibition than observed .

Transcriptional squelching has been described for many dominant negative transcription factors such as yeast Gal4 and herpes simplex virus VP16 where common components of the transcriptional apparatus become titrated of of promoters 11 12 . Typically these dominant negatives are rather promiscuous because the target co activators do not need to be bound to the specific promoter. For HIV Tat for example it has been shown that Tat over expression leads to decreased transcription from an MHC class II promoter because both Tat and the class II transactivator CIITA require P TEFb to function 13 . Because the Tat dominant negatives described here apparently operate via co transcriptional recruitment to the HIV promoter we suspected that they might display promoter specificity unlike the more traditional dominant negatives. Reporter experiments show that T U2AF65 has specificity for the HIV promoter versus other P TEFb regulated promoters . To further analyze promoter specificity we compared the relative expression levels of nine endogenous transcripts in the SupT1 Tat non inhibitor and SupT1 T U2AF65 inhibitor expressing stable cell lines using quantitative RT PCR and observed no significant differences in RNA levels from any of these promoters . The tested genes encode housekeeping proteins actin GAPDH HPRT1 regulatory factors TBP hnRNPA1 EEF1G and include an MHC class II HLA DQA1 and two other P TEFb regulated genes IL 8 and AR 14 . Thus whereas expression of T U2AF65 effectively blocks Tat activation and HIV replication it shows no significant effect on cellular promoters.

We observed that virus eventually emerged after 18 20 days in the inhibitor containing cell lines but with low replication kinetics and reaching a low steady state plateau of p24 expression . No mutations were found in these emergent viruses in the LTR or Tat coding region data not shown suggesting the cellular expression of the dominant negative inhibitor continuously suppressed replication. To test this we harvested viruses that emerged after 30 days and performed a re infection experiment to compare the kinetics of the original and emergent viruses. Indeed identical growth kinetics were observed when the initial or new viral stocks were used to infect the SupT1 T U2AF65 inhibitor cell line reaching the same chronic p24 expressing plateau whereas rapid growth was observed for both stocks in the SupT1 Tatcontrol cells . As expected inhibitor expressing cells infected at a high m.o.i. 10 versus 1 showed a cytopathic effect although again slower replication kinetics was observed than in the control cells data not shown . Thus even with low inhibitor expression and a high m.o.i. some protective effect still is seen highlighting the efficacy of the inhibitor and the balance between activator and inhibitor observed upon transfection of the SupT1 cell lines .

The potent Tat dominant negative inhibitors described in this work represent a new mechanistic class in which we hypothesize that a transcription factor AD is efficiently recruited to its promoter via a tethering signal in this case an RS domain among other specific contacts with the transcriptional apparatus. Unlike other dominant negatives these Tat inhibitors function at stoichiometric or even sub stoichiometric levels and do not require the considerable over expression typically required for squelching or other simple competition mechanisms. We speculate that their specificity and potency is imposed by localization first at the sub cellular and sub nuclear levels and second by efficient recruitment to the promoter. Ptashne and Gann proposed the concept of regulated localization where specificity typically is imposed by simple binding interactions between a locator the transcriptional machinery and the DNA. We propose that combining localization functions within a single polypeptide can substantially enhance activity. In the case of the T U2AF65 inhibitor it appears that the Tat AD provides the dominant negative function in part through interactions with P TEFb at the HIV promoter while the RS domain provides additional localization and timing functions utilizing co transcriptional mechanisms that RNA processing factors including SR proteins use to load into transcription complexes. This hypothesis is supported by the observations that RS domain containing proteins localize to sub nuclear speckles which are thought to anchor splicing factors to the nuclear matrix and facilitate assembly with RNAP II and that Tat and P TEFb co localize to nuclear speckles. It remains to be determined if other transcription factors including those that do not function at the elongation step can be efficiently localized and assembled into transcription complexes in a similar manner and if other types of targeting domains may be used.

HIV replication is substantially inhibited by low level expression of the dominant negative in stable cell lines even without optimizing and selecting for lines with high activity . It is interesting that these cells establish a chronic infection without cytopathic effects reminiscent of other cellular environments that may resemble latent stages of HIV infection. The balance of Tat clearly affects viral replication ratesand also can drive phenotypic diversity and here we show that expression of the dominant negative provides another means to alter the Tat balance. Other dominant negative HIV proteins have been used to suppress HIV replication including the nuclear export deficient Rev M10 mutant but resistance mutations have been foundand relatively high expression levels are required for inhibition despite the oligomeric nature of Rev. It will be interesting to examine mechanisms by which resistance to the Tat dominant negative might arise and to evaluate its therapeutic potential.

HeLa cells were transfected with GFP or firefly luciferase FFL reporter plasmids typically 25 ng appropriate amounts of Tat activator and inhibitor plasmids and 5 ng of a CMV Renilla luciferase RL plasmid using the Polyfect lipid transfection reagent Qiagen in a 48 well format. Reporter activity was measured 48 hr post transfection using a Becton Dickinson FACS Calibur or Dual Glo luciferase assay Promega . All LTR reporter plasmids used contained an internal ribosome entry site IRES upstream of the FFL gene to ensure efficient translation irrespective of the 5 UTR sequence used and RL activity was used to normalize for transfection efficiencies. For experiments presented in cells were transfected with 10 ng of activator and 2.5 or 10 ng of Tat fusion plasmids. All activation assays were performed in triplicate and error bars represent the SD of the mean.

HeLa or stably integrated HeLa LTR RREIIB FFL cells were grown to 50 confluence on glass cover slips transfected with 100 ng of plasmid DNAs fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde in 1 PBS buffer pH 7.6 24 hr post transfection rinsed twice with PBS and permeabilized with PBS Triton 0.5 for 10 min at 4 C. Nonspecific antibody sites were blocked in 1 PBS 3 goat serum and 4 BSA for 1 hr at room temperature cells were incubated with primary antibodies for 1 hr at room temperature washed three times with PBS incubated with appropriate Alexa 488 or Alexa 546 coupled secondary antibodies Molecular Probes for 1 hr at room temperature and washed three times with PBS. Cells were mounted on DAPI containing Vecta shield slides Vector Labs . Light microscopy was done using an LSM510 confocal microscope Zeiss and images were processed using LSM Zeiss software.

To examine association of dominant negative inhibitors with RNAP II HeLa cells were transiently transfected with T U2AF65 GFP T K41A U2AF65 GFP or T NLS GFP and nuclear extracts were prepared with RIPA buffer. Half of the extract was used directly for the immunoprecipitation and the remaining half was treated with 1 g of RNAse A which was sufficient to quantitatively digest the RNA from 10HeLa cells. RNAP II was immunoprecipitated using agarose conjugated to 8WG16 and H14 antibodies overnight at 4 C. with mild shaking. Similarly GFP tagged proteins were immunoprecipitated using agarose conjugated GFP antibodies. After centrifuging and washing the beads immunocomplexes were dissociated by boiling for 10 min in 2 gel loading buffer samples were separated by 10 SDSPAGE transferred to PVDF and analyzed by Western blot.

HeLa cells were transfected with the pLTR HTAR FFL reporter alone or with activator and inhibitor expressing plasmids total RNA was extracted using TRIzol Invitrogen and 15 g of each sample was hybridized with proximal and distal probes corresponding to HIV promoter and luciferase ORF regions respectively. The antisense probes were synthesized using a T3 T7 MaxiScript kit Ambion from plasmid templates linearized at a KpnI site hybridization was performed with approximately 10 000 cpm of P CTP labeled probe in 80 formamide 40 mM PIPES 400 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA incubated at 42 C. overnight RNase digestion was performed for 1.5 hr at 30 C. in 10 mM Tris pH 8.0 300 mM NaCl 5 mM EDTA 11 units ml of RNase A 11 units ml RNase T1 samples were treated with proteinase K extracted with phenol chloroform and RNA duplexes were precipitated with ethanol and glycogen carrier. RNAs were separated on a 6 polyacrylamide 8 M urea gel and visualized and quantified using a Typhoon phosphorimager Molecular Dynamics . Experiments were performed in duplicate with errors bars representing the SD of the mean.

HeLa cells were transfected in 6 well plates with a pcDNA3.1 derived plasmid Invitrogen bearing the LTR RREIIB FFL using Polyfect reagent Qiagen . Clones were selected over more than four weeks in D MEM 10 FBS supplemented with 750 g ml of G418 Gibco . Twenty clones were analyzed for activation by pSV T Rev HA by luciferase assays and a single highly active clone was chosen for ChIP analyses. ChIP assays were performed as describedwith minor modifications. HeLa LTR RREIIB FFL reporter cells were transfected with various expressor plasmids 5 g each using 30 l of Lipofectamine 2000 Invitrogen per 25 cm culture dish incubated for 36 hr and washed in PBS. Chromatin was cross linked with 1 formaldehyde for 15 min at RT and the reaction stopped by adding glycine to 125 mM. Cells were washed with PBS and harvested in RIPA buffer and samples were sonicated to generate DNA fragments 

Plasmids expressing Tat Tat T BIV T U2AF65 T HIV U2AF65 T BIV U2AF65 and U2AF65 were constructed in a pBMN retroviral vector kindly provided by G. Nolan using an SV40 promoter to express the Tat or Tat fusion proteins. Plasmids were transfected into ONX packaging cells using the Polyfect reagent and the retrovirus containing supernatant recovered after 48 hr was used to transduce human CD4 SupT1 cells. Populations of stable integrants were selected by growing cells in 2 mg ml G418 Invitrogen for at least 4 weeks. Relative expression levels for each protein were assessed by real time RT PCR transcriptional activation of transfected reporter plasmids and Western bloting Supplementary Information . Each stable SupT1 population was infected with an HIV Tat TAR dependent R7HTat HTAR or BIV Tat TAR dependent R7 HBTat BTAR virusat an m.o.i of 1. Supernatant samples were harvested at different intervals following infection and the amount of viral replication was monitored by p24 antigen expression using ELISA Immuno Diagnostics Inc. over a period of 110 days. Each experiment was performed in duplicate and mean values of p24 were calculated.

Total RNA was isolated from cells using the Trizol reagent according to manufacturer instructions Invitrogen . Randomly primed cDNA was prepared from 1 g of total RNA using MMULV reverse transcriptase New England Biolabs . One twentieth of the resultant cDNA was amplified in 35 l reactions containing 1.25 units of Taq DNA polymerase ABI 1.5 mM MgCl 300 nM of each primer 0.5 mM dNTP mix and 0.2 SYBR green I dye Molecular Probes in 1 Taq polymerase buffer. Real time PCR was performed in an Opticon 2 DNA Engine MJ Research and analyzed using the Ct method Applied Biosystems Prism 7700 .

To more quantitatively assess relative inhibitor and activator expression levels HeLa cells were co transfected with 300 ng of pEGFPN3 Clontech and either 1.35 g of pSV2 T Rev HA 1.35 g pSV2 T U2AF65 HA or both plasmids in 6 well plates. Nuclear extracts were prepared using NE PER reagents Pierce samples were separated on a 12.5 SDS PAGE gel transferred to nitrocellulose and probed with anti HA anti GFP or anti nucleolin antibodies.

Stable SupT1 G418 resistant cell populations 3 10cells were transfected by electroporation Bio Rad 250V 0.975 F with LTR HTAR GFP or LTR BPS BTAR GFP reporters to assess the activities of integrated plasmids expressing Tat or T fusion proteins. After 48 hours cells were analyzed by flow cytometry and GFP activity was quantitated using Celquest software Becton Dickinson . Populations expressing Tat and derivatives were transfected with LTR HTAR GFP populations expressing T BIVand derivatives were transfected with LTR BPS BTAR GFP and populations expressing U2AF65 fusions were transfected with LTR BPS BTAR GFP which contains a BPS and PPT that binds U2AF65 cooperatively with SF1 9 . For luciferase assays we used the LTR HTAR FFL or LTR BTAR FFL reporters and CMV RL as an internal control for data normalization.

SupT1 T U2AF65 SupT1 T BIV U2AF65 and SupT1 T HIV U2AF65 infected populations about 1 10cells were harvested 25 days post infection and genomic DNA was extracted using Flexigene according to manufacturer instructions Qiagen . DNA was amplified by PCR using Turbo Pfu Stratagene with primer pair specific to regions of the HIV LTR promoter and surrounding Tat coding sequence. PCR amplified DNA was gel purified Qiagen and cloned into a TOPO vector Invitrogen . Eight clones from each cell population were sequenced and sequences were compared to the original viral isolate HXB2 using the NCBI BLAST algorithm.

