---

title: Method and system for a browser module
abstract: In general, the invention relates to a method for capturing information from a web site. The method includes accessing the web site using a browser with a browser module, where the web site comprises a number of web pages having information in a first format, and obtaining a profile corresponding to the web site, where the profile defines a manner to capture information in a first format from the web site. The method further includes capturing information, by the browser module, from at least one of the number of web pages based on the profile and sending the information captured by the browser module to a destination application, where the destination application is external to the browser and where the destination application is configured to use the information in a second format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08078986&OS=08078986&RS=08078986
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08078986
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
Web sites on the World Wide Web Web provide a multitude of services to users and organizations. For example a user may employ a web site to host email manage credit cards pay bills plan hip s oversee health records and or administer any digital information pertinent to the user and or an organization associated with the user. Typically web sites that provide services are owned and or operated by disparate entities. Moreover each entity that provides a web site service may possess a proprietary authentication system requiring the user to remember account information e.g. username and password for each service.

The information stored and or provided by web site services may be useful to applications external to the web site services. For example the user may want credit card transactions supplied via a financial institution web site imported into a financial application running on the user s computer system e.g. QuickBooks QuickBooks is a registered trademark of Intuit Inc. of Mountain View Calif. . Because the information is supplied through the browser no simple means exists to import the information and the user is required to manually enter the same information from the web page into the financial application.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for capturing information from a web site. The method includes accessing the web site using a browser with a browser module where the web site comprises a number of web pages having information in a first format and obtaining a profile corresponding to the web site where the profile defines a manner to capture information in a first format from the web site. The method further includes capturing information by the browser module from at least one of the number of web pages based on the profile and sending the information captured by the browser module to a destination application where the destination application is external to the browser and where the destination application is configured to use the information in a second format.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium including computer readable instructions embodied therein for causing a computer system to perform accessing the web site using a browser with a browser module where the web site comprises a number of web pages having information in a first format and obtaining a profile corresponding to the web site where the profile defines a manner to capture information in a first format from the web site. The computer readable instructions further for causing the computer system to perform capturing information by the browser module from at least one of the number of web pages based on the profile and sending the information captured by the browser module to a destination application where the destination application is external to the browser and where the destination application is configured to use the information in a second format.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for capturing information from a web site. More specifically embodiments of the invention permit a web browser module to capture information from a web site and send the information to a destination application.

The user computer includes a browser a browser module a user application optional and an extraction module . The user computer is operatively connected to the server system which includes a profile service and a server application optional . In one or more embodiments of the invention the server system may be configured to communicate with the profile data store .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the user computer may be operated by any user not shown capable of operating the browser and possessing an account for a web service. For example the user may be a consumer a vendor a banker a small business owner a doctor and or any other individual capable of operating the browser on the user computer system .

In one or more embodiments of the invention a destination application e.g. user application and server application is software for manipulating and or analyzing information related to the user. For example the destination application e.g. user application and server application may be financial software e.g. QuickBooks for tracking user financial information. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user application may be resident on the user computer system. In further embodiments of the invention the server application may be resident on the server system of the organization hosting the profile service and or a computer system hosted by a third party not shown . In one embodiment of the invention the destination application may correspond to a web service.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the browser is configured to navigate web sites using the Hypertext Transmission Protocol HTTP . For example the browser may be Microsoft Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox Microsoft and Internet Explorer are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Mozilla and Firefox are registered trademarks of the Mozilla Foundation of Mountain View Calif. .

Continuing with the browser module is operatively connected to the browser . In one or more embodiments of the invention the browser module is configured to retrieve profiles from the profile service associated with web sites visited by the browser . Profiles from the profile service include information that defines how to extract information from the web site. For example the profiles include regular expressions Bachus Naur form grammars Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations XSLT and or any suitable information that may be used by the extraction module to extract data from the web site. In one embodiment of the invention the profile may identify which web pages within a given web site include data that may be extracted. In such cases the profile may include specific information about how to extraction information from the web site on a per web page basis.

In another embodiment of the invention the profiles or portions thereof may be stored on the user computer . In such cases the browser module may be configured to query both the user computer and the profile service to obtain the profiles.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the browser module may be further configured access the Application Programming Interface API of the browser to determine the Uniform Resource Locator URL of web sites visited and to modify web pages before the pages are presented to the user via the browser . For example when a user directs the browser to visit a web mapping service the browser module may query the browser s API to determine that the browser is visiting the http www.map example.com web site and may modify visited web pages by inserting a Hypertext Markup Language HTML button to indicate that information presented on the web page may be captured and sent to the destination application e.g. user application and server application .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the browser module may be configured to present a Graphical User Interface GUI enabling the user to select a destination application e.g. user application and server application to send extracted information from the web page. The GUI may also be configured to allow the user to modify the extracted information before it is sent to the destination application e.g. user application and server application .

The browser module communicates with the server system via a network not shown . The network may be a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a local area network LAN a public network such as the Internet or World Wide Web a wireless network a telephony network a mobile telephony network or any combination thereof. Further the network may include one or more networks interconnected by other network types e.g. distinct LANs connected by one or more WANs .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the server system is configured to store profile information associated with web sites in a profile data store and serve up the profile information to browser modules via the profile service . The profile data store may be any device or medium capable of storing profile information. For example the profile data store may be one or more databases a directory service one or more flat files a spreadsheet an extensible markup language XML or any other suitable data repository. In one or more embodiments of the invention the profile data store may be hosted on a data server not shown maintained by a third party. Further the profile data store may be directly connected to the server system or may be connected to the server system via a network not shown .

The browser module observes that the browser has navigated to a new web site and obtains a profile associated with the web site Step . Profiles are obtained by requesting a profile associated with the web site from the profile service executing on a remote server system. Requests for profiles are placed from the browser module to the profile service in any format that may support the communication of profile information. For example profile requests from the browser module may be fulfilled by the profile service using the web Services Definition Language WSDL a remote procedure call RPC HTTP GET POST operations JavaScript Object Notation BON JavaScript is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. and or structured query language SQL queries.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a null profile is returned when no profile information exists for the specified web site. At Step a determination is made about whether a null profile was returned when the null profile is returned no information may be extracted from the web site and the flow ceases.

Alternatively in one or more embodiments of the invention when the returned profile is not null the profile is cached locally by the browser module while the user navigates through the web site Step . Web pages from the web site may be modified by the browser module during user navigation of the web site. Navigating the web site is further described below in relation to .

Continuing with at Step the browser module determines whether to capture information from the web site Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention when the user declines to capture information from the web site the capture process ends. When the user provides a positive indication to the browser module to capture information from the web site the browser module captures information from the web site. Examples of a positive indication may include a user selecting a proceed button marking a checkbox clicking on a button inserted by the browser module within the actual web page itself clicking on a button placed on the browser s toolbar by the browser module to direct the browser module to capture information from the web site selecting an additional menu item from the browser tool bar right clicking a mouse to trigger a pop up menu in the browser and then subsequently selecting an item from the pop up menu or otherwise choosing a selection intending a positive result. In one embodiment of the invention the user has the ability to activate and de activate the browser module.

At Step the browser module captures information from the web site using the extraction module and the retrieved profile. For example the extraction module may apply a regular expression from the profile to the HTML of a web page from financial institution s web site to extract a balance for the user. Capturing information from the web site is shown and further discussed below in relation to . In one embodiment of the invention the browser module may also include functionality to capture information using XFORMs and or Microformats.

In one embodiment the invention the extracted information may include but is not limited to financial data healthcare data personal data and geographic data. Further the financial data may include but is not limited to a credit statement an invoice a receipt and a tax statement

In one or more embodiments of the invention subsequent to successfully capturing information from the web site the captured information is displayed to the user Step via a GUI dialog presented from the browser module. The GUI dialog is also configured to include a mechanism for selecting the destination application for the captured information Step . For example a GUI drop down menu may be shown populated with compatible destination applications for the captured information. In one embodiment of the invention the GUI dialog presented to the user may be defined in the profile i.e. the profile obtained in Step . Alternatively the GUI dialog presented to the user may be defined by the browser module for example during setup of the browser module .

After selecting the destination application Step the user determines whether the information presented in the dialog is correct Step . If the captured information is correct the captured information is sent to the destination application Step . When the user determines that the information is not correct the user may use the dialog presented by the browser module to edit the captured information Step . For example the user may wish to place an expense item from an online credit card statement in a spending category that is more specific than the one provided by the credit card web site. Examples of GUI interfaces for captured web site information are described in more detail below in relation to .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the captured information is sent to the destination application Step after the captured information has been confirmed as correct Step or after the user has successfully edited the captured information Step . One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the captured information may be placed into an acceptable format prior to being sent to the destination application Step . For example the captured information may be converted into a generalized format such as Comma Separated Values CSV and or XML the captured information may also be converted into a specific object compatible with the application s internal components using Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA .

In one or more embodiments of the invention when a determination in made using the profile that the web page includes information that may be captured the web page may be modified to include some form of a positive indication such as a capture trigger Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the capture trigger provides a visual mechanism embedded into the web page which notifies the user of embedded information within the page that may be captured. For instance the browser module may insert a HTML element as the capture trigger into the HTML code of the web page that when pressed executes JavaScript that may invoke the GUI dialog for selecting a destination application and or editing the captured information. In one embodiment of the invention the browser module uses the profile to determine where to insert the capture trigger. The modified web page is subsequently provided to the browser by the browser module and displayed to the user Step .

In alternative embodiments of the invention the capture trigger may be manifested in the activation of a button placed in the browser by the browser module with no modification of the web page. For example a button labeled Capture Page may become active by lighting up from an inactive i.e. greyed out state.

One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that profiles may need to be updated because of the frequent updating of content and that the profiles are not limited to extracting only HTML data. For example profiles may be used to extract information from non HTML files associated with the web page including ActionScript ActionScript is registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. JavaScript XML and or Cascading Style Sheets CSS .

Continuing with the browser module then determines whether there are additional web pages remaining for information to be extracted Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the extraction module includes functionality to extract information that is paginated across multiple web pages. For example many financial institutions do not display an entire credit card statement on the same web page. In such conditions the profile for the financial institution web site includes information to instruct the extraction module to obtain the next page from the web site Step when a determination is made that additional pages remain Step .

In one or more embodiments of the invention subsequent web pages obtained from the web site Step by the extraction module may be tested for whether additional information may be extracted Step . Steps will be repeated when the web page includes information that may be extracted. Otherwise the information extracted from the one or more web pages is sent to the browser module Step to be displayed to the user.

A query sent by the profile service is evaluated on the profile data store to determine whether the profile exists Step . If no profile associated with the web site exists a null or empty profile is sent back to the browser module on the user computer Step . If the profile exists the profile is then checked to verify that it includes the latest information for the web site Step . After verification the profile is sent to the browser module on the user computer Step . In the event that the web site has been updated since the last time the profile was updated the browser module may be notified that the profile is not up to date. In addition Step may trigger notification to the profile service company to update the profile for the web site.

Continuing with the discussion of in one or more embodiments of the invention the server system may receive the extracted information from the browser module on the user computer Step . When the extracted information is received it may be sent to an application resident on the server system. Step is optional because in one or more embodiments of the invention the application may not be present on the server system.

Upon navigating to the statement web page the browser module determines that financial information exists on the web page that may be captured into the user s financial application not shown . The browser module modifies the financial institution s web page to include a Capture Bill button and presents the modified web page to the user.

The user wishing to analyze the credit card transactions within their financial application clicks the Capture Bill button . Clicking the Capture Bill button causes the extraction module to extract the financial information from the financial institution web page using the retrieved profile. In one or more embodiments of the invention when the financial information extends across multiple pages the extraction module is able to retrieve and extract the financial information from the subsequent paginated web pages.

In one or more embodiments of the invention upon completing editing of the captured financial information the user may click the Send button to propagate the captured information to the financial application. Alternatively the user may abort sending the captured information by clicking the Cancel button .

Continuing with the example the browser module not shown retrieves a profile associated with the mapping web site and the user proceeds to create a map showing the user s business trip route from Mountain View Calif. to Los Angeles Calif. The captured information may be used by the user to generate an expense report.

Prior to displaying web page the browser module retrieves a profile associated with the mapping web site and the extraction module uses the profile to determine that route information and distance information may be captured from web page. Upon receipt of the profile the browser module then activates a Capture Route button in the toolbar and displays the web page to the user. The user wishing to record mileage information about the business trip clicks on the Capture Route button to initiate the capture dialog.

Continuing with the GUI also includes the captured distance and captured route from the mapping web page . In one or more embodiments of the invention the browser module may capture the route in a format used by GIS applications. In this example the captured route is presented in the Well Known Text WKT format specified by the Open Geospatial Consortium OGC OGC is a registered trademark of the Open Geospatial Consortium Inc. of Wayland Mass. .

Though not shown in in one embodiment of the invention once the destination application is chosen the browser module may perform a query to the destination application to obtain application specific information to allow the user to further modify annotate the captured data prior to sending it to the destination application. For example if QuickBooks is selected as the destination application the browser module could send a query to QuickBooks to obtain additional fields in the GUI to allow the user to specify customer and or what job item the trip was for. In one embodiment of the invention specifying the customer may include providing via the GUI a list of customers currently listed in QuickBooks . Based on information received from the query the GUI may include a dropdown menu for each of the additional fields where the values i.e. customer names and or job items presented to the user are obtained from QuickBooks . In one embodiment of the invention the information obtained from QuickBooks is specific to the user.

In one or more embodiments of the invention upon the completion of editing the captured route and distance information the user may click the Send button to send the captured information to the selected application. Alternatively the user may abort sending the captured information by clicking the Cancel button .

The invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer including mobile devices regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes a processor associated memory a storage device and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer may also include input means such as a keyboard and a mouse and output means such as a monitor . The computer system is connected to a local area network LAN or a wide area network e.g. the Internet not shown via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that these input and output means may take other forms.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. the destination application profile service and profile data store may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape a file or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments may be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

