---

title: Presenting and navigating content having varying properties
abstract: Technologies are described herein for presenting and navigating content having varying properties. One or more local or networked providers are searched for content objects. Content objects include associated metadata and may be stored within a content container. Each content object is displayed separately from its associated content container. Displayed content objects may be grouped and filtered based upon the associated metadata. Displayed content objects may also be grouped and filtered based upon the provider from which they were retrieved. Selection of a content object causes the content container associated with the selected content object to be displayed. Alternately, selection of a content object may cause a preview of the selected content object and the metadata associated with the selected content object to be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549441&OS=08549441&RS=08549441
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08549441
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070615
---
Today s computer users have access to an incredible amount of digital content such as images videos and audio files. Such content however may be stored in disparate locations across a user s local computer across a local area network LAN or across a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. As a result the user experience for locating such content has in the past been scattered and inconsistent. In order to search for a desired image across all available sources for instance users have previously been forced to utilize multiple application programs each with its own unique user interface.

Another complication in locating desirable content arises from the fact that content is frequently stored within documents or other types of content containers. For instance images are often stored within word processing documents charts are often stored within spreadsheet documents content of all kinds is stored as attachments to electronic mail e mail messages and images and videos are stored with world wide web Web pages. As a result it can be difficult to locate content that is stored within such containers.

Previous user interfaces for searching for content typically present search results in the context of the container in which they are stored and require a user to locate and manually save the desired content. For instance if a Web page includes an image matching a search query the image will be presented in the context of the Web page with which it is associated. A user must then manually locate the desired image on the Web page save the image and then possibly perform a desired function with the saved image such as inserting the image into a document. This process can be complicated and time consuming for the user.

It may also be difficult to group and filter search results because some of the located content may have associated metadata that identifies unique properties of the content while other content does not. As a result previous user interfaces for searching for content only permit grouping and filtering based upon the properties that are common to all content such as filename size and creation date. Functionality is not provided for grouping or filtering search results based on metadata that is unique to a particular kind of content or based upon the provider from which the content was obtained.

Technologies are described herein for presenting and navigating content having varying properties. Through the utilization of the technologies and concepts presented herein a user can quickly and easily locate content available from local and network providers. Moreover content can be viewed filtered and grouped outside of the context of the content container within which it is stored. Content can also be easily grouped and filtered based upon properties that are unique to the type of content or to the search provider from which the content was retrieved.

According to one aspect presented herein a user interface is provided for searching presenting and navigating content objects. Content objects may comprise any type of digital content such as images video clip art animations charts themes text layouts and others. Content objects may be stored inside of content containers. A content container is a data construct for holding one or more content objects. For instance a word processing document is a type of content container that may be utilized to store text formatting images clip art and other types of content objects. Content containers may also hold other content containers. For instance an e mail message may have a document or other type of content container attached thereto.

In one implementation the user interface presented herein includes a user interface control through which a user can select one or more providers from which content objects should be retrieved. The providers may be search providers or direct storage providers. Search providers may be local or networked and provide functionality for storing indexing and searching content. Direct storage providers provide functionality for accessing local content such as images or documents stored on a local hard disk directly without first accessing a search index. A user can also provide search terms for use by the search providers in identifying content objects. The search terms are transmitted to each of the search providers along with a request to search for content objects matching the search terms.

Each search provider will return content objects that match the provided search terms. The direct storage provider will return content objects stored on storage devices in one or more specified locations such as local hard drives removable mass storage devices networked drives and other types of local storage devices without consulting a search index. The providers may also return metadata for each of the returned content objects that includes properties for each content object. The metadata may be specific to a particular type of content object or to the provider from which the content object was returned. For instance an image may include metadata that identifies the price duration and other terms of a license for the image. The metadata may also identify the provider from which the content object was returned.

According to other aspects each content object returned from a provider is displayed separately from its associated content container. In this manner a user can interact with each content object outside of the context of the content container within which it is stored. For instance the displayed content objects may be grouped or filtered based upon the associated metadata. The displayed content objects may also be grouped or filtered based upon the provider from which they were retrieved.

According to other aspects the content objects may be selected individually. In response to such a selection the content container associated with the selected content object may be displayed. For instance if the content object is an image that is attached to an e mail message selection of the image will result in the display of the e mail message. In this manner a user can interact with the content objects apart from the associated content container while retaining the ability to view the contents of the content container. In another implementation selection of the content object will cause a preview of the content object to be displayed along with at least a portion of the metadata associated with the selected content object.

It should be appreciated that the implementations described herein are applicable to any type of computer program that provides for the search and retrieval of content. For example the concepts presented herein may be utilized in word processing application programs spreadsheet application programs presentation application programs desktop publishing application programs and other types of application programs. An operating system program may also utilize the concepts presented herein. The above described subject matter may also be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to technologies for locating presenting and navigating content having varying properties. Through the use of the embodiments presented herein a user can easily locate content stored at local and networked locations and interact with located content without reference to a container object within which the content is stored. In this manner a user can more easily make use of located content than permitted by previous solutions for locating content.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements through the several figures aspects of a computing system and methodology for presenting and navigating content having varying properties will be described.

Turning now to details will be provided regarding an illustrative operating environment for the implementations presented herein as well as aspects of several software components that provide the functionality described herein for displaying and navigating content. In particular is a network architecture diagram showing aspects of a search client computer a local search provider A a direct storage provider F and several network search providers B E. As will be described in greater detail below the search client computer is operative to execute an operating system and an application program that provides a search user interface . The application program may comprise any type of program capable of searching for and utilizing digital content. For instance in one implementation the application program comprises a word processing application program that includes functionality for searching for images navigating located images and inserting located images into word processing documents. The search user interface which is described in greater detail below with reference to provides a user interface for accessing this functionality.

In order to provide the functionality described herein the application program operates in conjunction with a connection manager . The connection manager is a program module that provides functionality for communicating with one or more providers A F. The search providers A E provide functionality for storing content indexing the content and searching the content in response to requests from the connection manger . The direct storage provider F returns content objects stored on local storage devices in one or more specified locations. This type of content is accessed directly without the use of a search index.

The search providers A E may comprise local search providers such as the search provider A. A local search provider is a program module executing on the search client computer that is capable of indexing and searching content stored at the search client computer . As used herein the term content refers to any type of digital information and includes but is not limited to images videos documents text e mail messages forms charts clip art animations effects layouts icons and themes.

The search providers A E may also comprise LAN search providers B C. LAN search providers are search providers operative to index and search content stored on a local area network to which the search client computer is connected such as the LAN . A company s intranet internal collaboration Web sites and e mail servers are examples of such LAN search providers. Other types of LAN search providers may also be utilized.

The search providers A E may also take the form of WAN search providers D E. WAN search providers are search providers that are accessible through a wide area network such as the Internet. WAN search providers may take the form of public Internet search engines commercial content providers and virtually any other type of searchable database made available over the Internet. The connection manager may cause a search to be performed by the local search provider A the LAN search providers B C and the WAN search providers D E simultaneously. Search results received from the various providers may be relayed to the application program in an asynchronous manner as they are received. The connection manager may also communicate with the direct storage provider F to allow browsing of non indexed locally stored content through the search user interface . It should be appreciated that multiple connection managers may be utilized each of which may be customized for a particular purpose such as communicating with local or network providers.

As will be described in greater detail below the search user interface provides functionality for allowing a user to select which of the search providers A E should be searched for content. The user can also provide search terms that should be utilized by the search providers A E when searching their respective content databases. When such a search is initiated through the search user interface the application program communicates with the connection manager to request the search. In turn the connection manager relays the search request including the search terms to the desired search providers A E.

The connection manager also receives search results generated by the queried search providers and relays the search results to the application program . The results are displayed by the search user interface and a user is permitted to navigate the results in the manner described below. It should be appreciated that the connection manager abstracts the details of the communication with the providers A F from the application program . In this regard the connection manager may expose an application programming interface API for use by the application program in initiating searches and receiving search results. The API may provide functionality for discovering the available providers A F querying the providers A F and for receiving the results. Other application programs and the operating system may utilize the API provided by the connection manager in a similar manner.

Referring now to additional details regarding the digital content that is made available by the providers A F will be described. In particular the content available from the providers A F may be stored as content objects. Content objects are units of digital content. For instance content objects may include but are not limited to text images videos clip art animations effects themes layouts charts and icons. In order to facilitate searching for content objects metadata may be maintained that describes various properties of each content object. For instance a digital photograph may have associated metadata that describes the subject of the image the creator of the image the type of camera that the image was taken with and other information.

As shown in the content objects available from the various providers A F may also be stored within a content container . A content container is a data construct for holding one or more content objects A D or content containers. For instance a word processing document is a type of content container that may be utilized to store text formatting images clip art and other types of content objects. A spreadsheet document is another type of content container that may be utilized to store numbers formulas charts and other types of content objects. A Web page is another type of content container that stores text formatting images videos and other types of content objects. An e mail message is another type of content container that is utilized to store content objects as attachments to the e mail message itself or other content containers. It should be appreciated that other types of content containers may be utilized with the implementations presented herein.

As also shown in the providers A F may maintain metadata A for the content container . Metadata B E may also be maintained for each of the content objects A D respectively within a content container . The metadata A E is generally utilized by a search provider when searching for content. When search terms match the contents of the metadata for a content container or a content object the matching container or content object and its associated metadata may be returned to the connection manager .

According to aspects the metadata may be specific to a particular type of content object or to a particular search provider A E. For instance if the content object B is a digital rights restricted image the metadata C associated with the content object B may include properties identifying the licensing terms for the image. This metadata would not be present for a non restricted image. In this regard it should be appreciated that the metadata defined for each of the content objects in a content container may include different properties. As will be described in greater detail below the search user interface provides functionality for filtering and grouping search results utilizing these content object type specific properties.

According to embodiments when search terms match a content object a search provider may return only the content object and its metadata. The search provider may also return information identifying the content container in which the matching content object is stored. Alternatively when search terms match a content object a search provider may return only data describing the content container . An additional search of the content container may need to be performed to identify the matching content object.

As will be described in greater detail below with respect to the search user interface provides functionality for causing a search to be performed by the providers A F and for exposing matching content objects separately from the content containers in which they are stored. The search user interface also provides functionality for filtering and grouping the returned content containers based upon the contents of the metadata associated with each content object. This functionality will be described in greater detail below.

Referring now to an illustrative search user interface provided by the application in one embodiment for presenting and navigating content having varying properties will be described. In the implementation shown in the search user interface provides functionality for locating an image to be inserted into a document. It should be appreciated however that a similar user interface might be utilized for locating other types of content objects and for performing other actions with the located content objects.

It should also be appreciated that according to embodiments the functionality provided by the search user interface may be customized based upon the current context of the application program when the search user interface is instantiated. For instance if a user requests to insert an image into a document the search user interface shown in may be displayed. If however a user requests to insert a chart into a document the search user interface may be customized for locating charts. This customization may include for instance identifying search providers from which charts are available. The operation of the search user interface may also be customized based upon the entry point the user has chosen e.g. insert background as opposed to insert picture the application itself e.g. the search user interface may provide different default functionality when the application is an e mail client or a word processing application or the context surrounding the current insertion point IP in the application e.g. the text or other content near the IP . Other document properties metadata and state may be similarly utilized to customize the operation of the search user interface . For instance in one implementation the word or words near the IP or in other portions of the document may be utilized as search terms for the search. In this way both the search itself and the operation of the search user interface may be customized utilizing the current context of the application program .

As shown in the search user interface presented in one embodiment includes a user interface pane through which a user may select the search providers A E that should be searched for the desired content objects. In the implementation shown in a list including selectable elements A F corresponding to the available search providers A E is displayed in the user interface pane . The element A corresponds to the direct storage provider F the element B corresponds to the local search provider A the element C corresponds to a LAN search provider B and the elements D E correspond to WAN search providers D E. The element F allows a user to specify that all of the available search providers should be searched. The elements G and H allow a user to specify that recently used or changed objects respectively should be included in the search. In the example shown in the element A has been selected. It should be appreciated that other types of user interface controls may be presented that permit a user to select the providers A F that should be searched.

According to embodiments the user interface pane may also be customized based upon the current context of the application . For instance if the application is a word processing application and a word processing document is currently open the user interface pane may include elements through which a user may request that a search be performed using key terms in the current document or for similar images or other types of objects in the current document.

The search user interface also includes a search box for receiving the keywords or search terms that should be utilized by the search providers when searching for content objects. In the example shown in a user has provided the search term basketball. In response to receiving the search term and a request to search the application program operates in conjunction with the connection manager to cause a search to be performed of the content maintained by the search providers A E. If matching content is located the content is returned to the connection manager and in turn the application program in the manner described above. The returned content is then displayed by the search user interface .

In the example shown in a search utilizing the term basketball has returned three content objects A C. These content objects are presented by the search user interface in the user interface pane . In this example the returned content object A is stored in a word processing document named BBALL.DOC and the objects B C are stored as attachments to an e mail message. As such it is not necessary for a user to interact with the document or e mail message in order to access the returned content objects A C.

In one implementation data from the appropriate content container may be displayed along with the returned content objects in order to provide some context to the user regarding where the content objects are located. For instance in an indication has been presented along with the content objects A that it is stored in a word processing document and along with the content objects B C that the matching objects are stored in an e mail message. The name of the word processing document in which the content object A is stored has been displayed. The name of the sender and subject of the e mail message has also been presented for each returned content object stored in an e mail message. An indication has also been provided regarding how many attachments to each e mail message are available. This information is provided in order to convey information about the content container for each content object and does not require the user to interact with the content container in order to access the content object.

According to other aspects a user may select one of the returned content objects A C such as with a mouse cursor or with another type of user input device. For instance in a user has selected the content object B. In response to such a selection data associated with the content container for the selected content object A is displayed in the user interface pane . In particular in the example shown in the body text of the e mail message to which the content object B is attached is shown in the user interface pane . In this manner additional context can be provided to a user regarding each of the returned content objects A C. In other embodiments presented herein a preview of the selected content object B may be shown in the user interface pane . Additionally as will be described in greater detail below with respect to the metadata provided with each of the returned content objects may be utilized to filter and group the display of the content objects presented in the user interface pane .

An appropriate user input will cause the selected content object B to be inserted into the currently active document. For instance in the illustrative user interface shown in selection of the user interface button will cause the selected content object B to be inserted into the currently active document. The insertion will be performed seamlessly without any other action required of the user. Selection of the user interface button will cancel the insert operation and remove the display of the search user interface .

Referring now to other details regarding various aspects of the search user interface provided herein will be described. In the implementation shown in a user interface pane has been displayed within the search user interface for allowing a user to filter the search results based upon the search provider from which the search results were obtained. In particular the user interface pane includes user interface check boxes corresponding to the search providers A E from which the content objects shown in the user interface pane were returned. In the example shown in a search has been made for the term family photographer and the content objects A C have been returned and displayed in the user interface pane .

Through the selection of the check boxes in the user interface pane a user can identify the search providers from which returned content objects should be displayed. Selection of a check box will cause search results returned from the corresponding search provider to be displayed in the user interface pane . De selection of a check box will cause search results returned from the corresponding search provider to not be displayed in the user interface pane . In this manner the search user interface allows search results to be filtered according to the search provider from which they were received. It should be appreciated that although check boxes have been illustrated in any suitable user input control may be utilized to permit the filtering of search results.

According to embodiments the search user interface also provides functionality for grouping search results according to the search provider from which they were received. For instance in the example shown in the content objects A C were received from one search provider and are grouped together in the user interface pane . The content objects D E were received from another search provider and are also grouped together.

In the implementation shown in the selection of one of the content objects A E such as with the mouse cursor or other suitable user input mechanism will cause a preview of the selected content object to be displayed in the user interface pane . For instance in the example shown in the content object E has been selected. As a result the preview is displayed in the user interface pane . Additionally metadata associated with the selected content object E has also been displayed in the user interface pane . For instance in the example shown in the resolution license type and price for the content object E has been displayed. Other information may also be displayed in a similar fashion.

Turning now to details regarding additional aspects of the search user interface provided herein will be described. In the implementation shown in a user interface pane has been provided by the search user interface . The user interface pane includes a user interface control for filtering the search results shown in the user interface pane based on the metadata associated with the search results. For instance in the example shown in check boxes are utilized that correspond to metadata returned from the search providers with the content objects A E. Selection of a check box will cause content objects having the corresponding metadata to be displayed within the user interface pane . De selection of a check box will cause content objects not having the corresponding metadata to not be displayed.

In the example shown in a user has selected check boxes corresponding to metadata for free images and images that are available for purchase. As a result content objects A E having matching metadata are displayed in the user interface pane . Any returned content objects that are not free or for purchase are not displayed within the user interface pane .

According to embodiments the search user interface also provides functionality for grouping search results based on the metadata associated with the search results. For instance in the example shown in the content objects A C have associated metadata indicating that they are free. Accordingly these objects are grouped together in the user interface pane . The content objects D E include metadata indicating that they are not free. As a result these content objects are also grouped together. An appropriate user interface mechanism may be utilized to select the metadata utilized for grouping the search results. It should be appreciated that although check boxes have been illustrated in any suitable user input control may be utilized to permit the filtering of search results based on the metadata associated with the search results.

Turning now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein for presenting and navigating content having varying properties. In particular is a flow diagram showing a routine that shows aspects of an illustrative process performed by the application program for providing a user interface for locating presenting and navigating content objects. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

The routine begins at operation where the search user interface receives user input such as search terms and gathers the current context of the application program . As discussed above the current context of the application program may be utilized to customize the operation of the search user interface . From operation the routine continues to operation where the application program obtains a list of the available search providers A E from the connection manager . As discussed above the connection manager may expose an API for this purpose. Once the application program has obtained the list of available search providers the routine proceeds to operation . At operation the application program displays the search user interface including the available search providers. The routine then proceeds to operation where a selection is received from a user regarding the search providers that should be queried for content objects. The routine then proceeds to operation .

At operation the search user interface receives the search terms that should be utilized to query the identified search providers A E. Once the search terms have been received and the user has requested that the search be performed the routine proceeds to operation where the connection manager is instructed to search the selected search providers with the provided search terms. In response thereto the connection manager communicates with the selected search providers to cause the requested search to be performed.

At operation the application program receives the search results and associated metadata from the connection manager . Once the results have been returned the routine continues to operation where the content objects returned from the search providers are displayed in the manner described above with respect to . The routine then continues to operation where a determination is made as to whether a user has requested a new search such as by the provision of new search terms. If a new search has been requested the routine proceeds from operation to operation described above.

If a new search has not been requested the routine continues from operation to operation . At operation a determination is made as to whether a user has indicated that a selected content object should be inserted into the current document such as through the selection of the user interface button . If so the routine proceeds to operation where the selected content object is inserted into the current document. If not the routine proceeds to operation .

At operation a determination is made as to whether the user has cancelled the search and insert operation such as through the selection of the user interface button . If not the routine returns to operation described above. If so the routine proceeds to operation where it ends.

The computer architecture shown in includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and other program modules which will be described in greater detail below.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media that can be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer readable media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer .

According to various embodiments the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the network . The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems such as those described above with respect to . The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device also not shown in .

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked desktop laptop or server computer. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store an application program and search user interface that provides the functionality described herein for presenting and navigating content having varying properties. The mass storage device and RAM may also store an operating system the local search provider A the direct storage provider F and the connection manager each of which has been described above.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for presenting and navigating content having varying properties are presented herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

