---

title: Generalized cancellation of inductor winding capacitance
abstract: An inductor device or filter such as an electromagnetic interference (EMI) filter which includes an inductor provides cancellation of parasitic capacitance of the inductor and extends high frequency performance of the inductor or filter by using an inductor network (a special case being split windings) and including capacitors to couple signals corresponding to those which are passed by the equivalent parallel capacitance of an inductor of a network of inductors such as in a multi-phase power supply of voltage converter to another inductor terminal, ground or an inductor in the ground return path. Cancellation of parasitic capacitance is provided for differential mode and common mode windings where the windings may be either inductively coupled or not. Forming the windings as a bifilar winding to increase coupling coefficient further improves performance and allows cancellation (as distinct from parasitic capacitance reduction) and avoidance of resonance in circuits in which an inductor is not permitted in the ground return path. Different inductance values and turns ratios of any or all inductors of the network, including multi-phase networks, may be accommodated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07548137&OS=07548137&RS=07548137
owner: Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties, Inc.
number: 07548137
owner_city: Blacksburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070906
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 292 filed Oct. 24 2006 which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and the entire disclosure thereof is hereby incorporated by reference as if the disclosure that application were fully set forth herein.

The present invention was made in connection with National Science Foundation grant EEC 9731677. Therefore the U. S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention generally relates to electrical inductors principally in filter applications and more particularly to the improvement of performance of filter inductors at high frequencies especially in multi phase power supplies and voltage converters.

Resistance capacitance and inductance are three fundamental electrical properties which are exhibited to a greater or lesser degree by any structure capable of carrying a current. Electrical elements are often identified by one of these properties which is dominant in the electrical behavior of that element although the element may also exhibit parasitic properties which may be significant or even dominant under particular conditions. An inductor is thus a basic and fundamental electrical element which is constructed to develop a voltage across it which opposes a change in current through it a function generally achieved by one or more coils of a conductor referred to as a winding. Thus inductors are often employed as series filter elements and in resonant circuits. Power supplies and electromagnetic interference EMI suppression filters are examples of types of circuits in which the use of inductors is common.

As alluded to above however all practical embodiments of electrical devices regardless of the characteristic intended to be dominant will exhibit some other parasitic characteristics to some degree. The degree to which such parasitic characteristics are reduced in a given device generally by careful control of structural dimensions and materials is generally a primary indicator of the quality thereof. In inductors a principal parasitic characteristic is referred to as the equivalent parallel winding capacitance or simply equivalent parallel capacitance EPC which can be modeled as a small capacitor connected in parallel with a winding of the inductor. Any practical inductor will also exhibit an equivalent parallel resistance EPR which can be modeled as a similar connection of a resistor in parallel with the inductor.

Unfortunately such a parasitic capacitance provides substantially the opposite effect as that desired from an inductor and such effect increases with increase of frequency often encountered in current circuit designs such as microprocessors. Specifically for an ideal inductor having inductance L the impedance at a frequency f is given by the equation Z j2 fL which thus increases with increasing frequency. However the EPC between turns and between each turn and between respective windings of a practical inductor at very high frequencies where the EPC dominates the effect of the inductance the impedance thus becomes 12 which decreases with increasing frequency and may therefore severely compromise the desired and intended filter and or protective function of the inductor by providing a low impedance parallel path for high frequency signal components such as are encountered in electromagnetic interference EMI and engendered in power supply or power converter switching and by digital circuit loads such as microprocessors. Thus it is desirable to reduce EPC as much as possible particularly since a small EPC value is generally considered to be a strong indicator of the quality of the inductor element. However to date reductions in EPC by control of materials and device geometry and other techniques at the present state of the art are generally limited to about 30 leaving a significant value of EPC which continues to limit the working frequency of inductors for providing a filter function while requiring arrangements structures and designs of substantial complexity and criticality.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a technique for cancelling a relatively large portion of the EPC of an inductor to extend the working frequency by a factor of 10 100.

It is another object of the invention to provide an inductor structure which facilitates provision of an inductor structure which may or may not have parasitic capacitance cancellation circuitry included therein which provides an increased inductive coupling between inductor windings and reduced leakage to improve high frequency performance of the inductor while increasing the degree of cancellation of parasitic capacitance which may be achieved.

It is a further object of the invention to provide techniques and circuitry by which EPC may be cancelled in any inductor regardless of application and or provide increased design flexibility in choice of values of electrical components used in doing so.

In order to accomplish these and other objects of the invention inductor device and a filter having substantial cancellation of parasitic capacitance is provided comprising an inductor network having windings having a parasitic capacitance and capacitors connected to terminals of the windings to couple currents passed by one winding to a terminal of another winding or an inductor in a ground return path.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is shown a schematic circuit diagram including differential mode DM inductor windings which will be further discussed and distinguished from common mode CM windings below in connection with in accordance with the basic principles of the invention and a first preferred embodiment thereof. The two DM inductors illustrated can be two separate components which may or may not be inductively coupled or one integrated component built on for example a single core where the windings are necessarily inductively coupled unless they are the leakage of common mode CM inductors It is assumed for purposes of an initial discussion of the basic principles of operation of the invention that the DM inductors are identical however they are configured so that their inductances and parasitic parameters are the same. It should be noted that EPC cancellation in any single inductor may be achieved in accordance with the invention by forming a special case of an inductor network comprising a split winding and then performing cancellation in accordance with either DM or CM windings of that split winding network as will be discussed below generally depending on the nature of the magnetic coupling and capacitance between windings Cthat most closely characterizes the electrical properties of the particular inductor. A generalization of implementation of the invention to cases where the DM inductors are different will also be provided below following the discussion of the basic principles of the invention.

In connection with as is well understood in the art DM and CM inductors are related by the direction of winding on the core relative to current direction in the windings although commonly used nomenclature generally refers to the relative direction of current at the ports. For example if two windings generate magnetic flux in the same direction e.g. clockwise in with common mode CM current the inductor is referred to as a CM inductor. Conversely if the two windings generate magnetic flux in the same direction clockwise in with differential mode DM current the inductor is referred to as a DM inductor. If there is no magnetic coupling between the windings the windings may be considered to be either DM or CM windings for purposes of the practice of the present invention. Since DM and CM current have been defined as illustrated by arrows in respectively the factor determining DM and CM inductors is thus the relative winding direction of the two windings of a split inductor or windings of inductors in an inductor network.

The equivalent circuit of the two toroidal DM windings of is shown in . A detailed analysis of the equivalent circuit of is provided in Design of Inductor winding capacitance cancellation for EMI Suppression by Shuo Wang et al. published in the 37IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference pp. 2734 2740 Jun. 18 22 2006 which is hereby fully incorporated by reference.

Specifically as shown in there are two inductors each having an inductance Land which are assumed to be not inductively coupled to each other. If the two inductors are not inductively coupled it can be assumed that they are not in sufficient proximity to be significantly capacitively coupled and C or C which will be discussed below in connection with can be neglected. Each inductor thus includes a parasitic EPC and EPR as illustrated in parallel with the inductor windings. In accordance with the invention two small capacitors C having a capacitance equal to EPC are diagonally connected to the DM inductors. By employing the diagonal connection shown a method which emulates an electric field coupling between two capacitors sometimes referred to as positive mutual capacitance the high frequency components input to and passed by the EPC of each DM inductor are coupled to the other DM inductor in a manner to provide cancellation of currents and thus effective cancellation of parasitic capacitance. Thus the equivalent circuit is as illustrated in which has the same network parameters such as Z matrices as the circuit of and thus has the same characteristics on two ports. also clearly indicates that the resultant network is actually a so called pi type EMI filter without the effects of the EPC of the respective DM inductors up to extremely high frequencies.

If on the other hand the two DM inductors are inductively coupled with each other the EPC cancellation in accordance with the invention is somewhat more complicated as will now be discussed with reference to . The complication arises from the fact that there is parasitic capacitance C between the two windings which makes the equivalent winding capacitance equal to the difference between the winding capacitance EPC of one winding and half of the winding capacitance i.e. C 2 between the two windings. If the difference is positive two capacitors with the capacitance value EPC C 2 are connected diagonally to the two windings as in the embodiment illustrated in discussed above as specifically illustrated in . The equivalent circuit formed corresponds to that of except for the capacitance values which are EPC C 2 rather than simply EPC. If the difference is negative two capacitors each having a capacitance value of C 2 EPC are connected in parallel with the respective parallel inductor windings as shown in a method which emulates an electric field coulping two capacitors sometimes referred to as negative mutual capacitance . That is while it would appear that additional capacitance in parallel should aggravate the problem of high frequency effects of capacitance in parallel with the inductor if EPC C 2 is negative because C2 is greater than EPC EPC will actually be over compensated by Cand counter intuitively positive capacitance of C 2 EPC parallel to EPC should be added to more closely approximate cancellation because Cis effectively negative as discussed in detail in the above incorporated Wang et al. article requiring additional capacitance in parallel with EPC for more accurate cancellation. It should be noted that where C 2 is greater than EPC there is no parallel resonance between the inductor L and the capacitance EPC C 2 since the total parasitic capacitance is negative and thus overcompensates EPC. The above analysis and schematic and equivalent circuits of is also fully applicable to cancellation of parasitic capacitance in CM windings.

In the above discussion it was assumed for simplicity that the DM inductors were identical thus having equal EPC and the diagonally connected cancellation capacitors are correspondingly equal which may not be the case in a practical implementation. That is as illustrated in in accordance with the basic principles of the invention cancellation of winding capacitance can also be achieved where the EPCs of the windings are unequal as long as the condition is met. The schematic diagram of the circuit similar to but with different reference characters corresponding to this condition. The equivalent circuit similar to with the resulting values of Cand Care provided in . The same principle applies to two DM inductors on one core depending on the relationship of the lumped winding capacitance EPC as defined herein and the capacitance between the two windings as discussed above in connection with .

Further in regard to cancellation of parasitic capacitance in common mode CM windings where a mutual inductance between the windings will necessarily exist a generalization may be made for any turns ratio of the windings which is not equal to one which may be found advantageous in particular applications or embodiments of the invention which is similar to that described above for coupled DM windings. Specifically as illustrated in a schematic similar to the upper or lower portion of the equivalent circuit of is shown but omitting the cancellation capacitor corresponding to the parasitic capacitance Cwhich can be neglected since no current will flow in such parasitic capacitors because in common mode windings both terminals thereof will see the same voltage . Assuming a mutual inductance M between the windings and a ratio of inductances k developed by a turns ratio n square root over k the capacitance C required to provide cancellation of parasitic capacitance is given by 1 for any turns ratio in either the top or bottom portion of . The benefit of this generalization is that the capacitances on the two sides in a resultant network such as that of can be independently controlled when different values of C may be desirable in particular applications.

Additionally for a common mode CM inductor windings e.g. where the windings of or other inductor structure are wound for common mode conduction it should be noted as alluded to above that no current will flow in parasitic discretely depicted capacitances Csince both terminals of each winding to winding capacitance Cwill see the same voltage since the current at the respective terminals of each port are the same. Thus the winding to winding capacitance Ccan be neglected. If an inductor is allowed in the ground path the same basic principles of the invention described above in regard to or A depending on whether or not there is inductive coupling between the common mode inductors and the inductor in the ground path can be employed as illustrated in . Again the implementation is very simple and requires only two small capacitors such as ceramic capacitors as in the previously described implementations. Essentially the inductor in the ground path is used as a CM inductor which may or may not be inductively coupled with the CM inductors and capacitance cancellation carried out as described above with cross connections to the inductor in the ground path.

If an inductor is not allowed in the ground path as is generally the case a parasitic capacitance reduction as distinct from cancellation effect can be achieved by providing a capacitance connection of 4EPC to the ground path at the center taps of each of the common mode inductors as shown in . This known approach is discussed in detail in Improving the Characteristics of Integrated EMI Filters by Embedded Conductive Layers by R. Chen et al. IEEE Transactions Power Electronics Vol. 20 Issue 3 May 2004 pp. 611 619 which is hereby fully incorporated by reference.

However this known technique does not provide a complete solution to the EPC problem as illustrated in since while it may provide reduction of effects of parasitic capacitance and modestly expand the usable frequency range of an inductor it does not provide cancellation of parasitic capacitance effects and does not expand the usable frequency range of an inductor to the extent provided by the present invention in accordance with an additional aspect thereof. Specifically as is evident from the circuit of for an inductance of the two CM windings of about 2.7 mH EPC of 5.8 pF EPR of one winding of 15 k leakage inductance of the two half windings of 4.24 H K 0.994 and cancellation capacitors of 24 pF improves inductor performance from about 1.25 MHZ to 18.5 MHz. However from 18.5 MHZ to 30 MHz the performance is significantly worse with a sharp and significant resonance peak at 25 MHZ. It has been found by the inventors that this. deteriorated performance and resonance peak are due to resonance between the leakage inductance of the two half windings and the added capacitance. Thus parasitic capacitance cannot be considered to be cancelled e.g. for a broad range of frequencies by this approach. The large leakage inductance is in turn due to the less than optimal coupling coefficient between the CM windings when configured as schematically illustrated in .

To improve the coupling coefficient in accordance with the invention a bifilar winding strategy as illustrated in is provided. A bifilar winding essentially forms windings with two conductors which are in close proximity at a substantially uniform spacing such as by for example attaching them together using an insulating material prior to forming a winding therewith in order to control the small spacing between conductors. Thus essentially the bifilar winding provides for the windings of the two common mode coils to be closely spaced such as to be substantially coincident in location and the leakage energy is thus stored only in the very small air gap between the turns of the two windings. By doing so the measured coupling coefficient is raised from about 0.994 to about 0.99995. Applying the bifilar winding to the approach to the parasitic capacitance reduction circuit illustrated in results in the greatly improved inductor performance above 800 KHz graphically illustrated in which provides a 22 db improvement at 30 MHZ compared with the performance of the known technique using conventional toroidal CM windings as illustrated in and a 28 db improvement at 30 MHZ over the CM inductor without capacitance cancellation. The bifilar winding strategy of can also be used advantageously as a perfecting feature in embodiments of the invention using DM windings as described above with reference to . Experimental results of doing so are discussed in detail in the above incorporated Wang et al. publication. also indicates the substantial frequency independence of inductor performance to extremely high frequencies in this particular application but should also be understood to be generally characteristic of the effects of parasitic capacitance cancellation and frequency independence of inductor performance particularly as an indicator of inductor quality of other embodiments of the invention as illustrated for example in and A B.

The cancellation of parasitic capacitance for DM and CM windings discussed above in accordance with the invention can also be extended to multi phase inductors which are often employed in power supplies and voltage converters. In such applications use of a split inductor may or may not be necessary since the connections across phases may function in precisely the same manner in the network of inductors presented by such applications. The physical constitution of the cancellation circuit may thus integrate all phases with the cancellation capacitances be constituted by discrete elements or some combination of the two such as packaging an inductor winding with its cancellation capacitances as a three terminal or four terminal element which can be assembled with as many other such elements as the number of phases to be provided 

For example illustrates a multi phase arrangement including three phases for simplicity wherein the connections corresponding to any given phase correspond to the circuit diagram of but instead of split windings being diagonally connected each phase is connected to an adjacent phase in a manner which is preferably but not necessarily symmetrical. Inductances of different values can be accommodated by use of the generalization of the invention described above in connection with . That is the cancellation capacitance C and C of may or may not be equal as long as the cancellation conditions are met as described above. The same principles of operation are also applicable to multiple DM inductors on a single core depending on the relationship of the winding capacitance and the capacitance between each pair of windings in a manner similar to the single phase application described above.

The same concept is also applicable to multi phase arrangements of CM windings with turns ratios which may or may not be equal in respective phases. Referring to a plurality of circuits three as an example as shown in is shown connected in a network. Since L kL is equal among the phases the phases are symmetric and the neutral voltage potential of the common connection is zero volts. Therefore the cancellation capacitances can be connected together with or without being grounded. It should be appreciated that if the inductors are not coupled the cancellation of this embodiment of the invention applies not only to CM inductors windings but to DM inductors windings as well since separated inductors on each of the phases can serve as both CM and DM inductors.

In view of the foregoing it is seen that the invention provides substantial cancellation of effects of parasitic capacitance in inductors which greatly extends the usable frequency range thereof for power converter and EMI filter applications and the like making the inductor performance substantially frequency independent to extremely high frequencies which is a major indicator of inductor quality. These effects are enhanced in accordance with the invention by a bifilar winding strategy for the preferred split inductor structure which also allows achievement of parasitic capacitance cancellation as distinct from parasitic capacitance reduction in accordance with at least a known technique for reducing effects of parasitic inductor capacitance. The usable inductor frequency range is thus increased by a factor of 10 100. It should be appreciated that the techniques and exemplary circuits described above can be applied to n phases where n 2 where it is immaterial if the windings are split windings of a single phase or represent two phases 3 4 or any number of phases which may be desired or advantageous. The above techniques are also applicable to cancellation of inductor capacitance in all inductor applications and includes but is not limited to EMI filter inductors and other filter applications inductors in all power electronics circuits and inductors in all electronic circuits. It should be similarly appreciated that the techniques discussed above for cancellation of parasitic capacitance can also be used for control of capacitance on both sides of a split winding or between multiple phases by designing both n and the cancellation capacitance.

While the invention has been described in terms of a single preferred embodiment those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

