---

title: Web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application
abstract: Web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application, the multimodal client providing an execution environment for the application and operating on a multimodal device supporting multiple modes of user interaction including a voice mode and one or more non-voice modes, the application stored on an application server, includes: receiving, by the server, an application request from the client that specifies the application and device characteristics; determining, by a multimodal adapter of the server, modality requirements for the application; selecting, by the adapter, a modality web service in dependence upon the modality requirements and the characteristics for the device; determining, by the adapter, whether the device supports VoIP in dependence upon the characteristics; providing, by the server, the application to the client; and providing, by the adapter to the client in dependence upon whether the device supports VoIP, access to the modality web service for processing the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788620&OS=08788620&RS=08788620
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08788620
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070404
---
The field of the invention is data processing or more specifically methods systems and products for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application.

User interaction with applications running on small devices through a keyboard or stylus has become increasingly limited and cumbersome as those devices have become increasingly smaller. In particular small handheld devices like mobile phones and PDAs serve many functions and contain sufficient processing power to support user interaction through multimodal access that is by interaction in non voice modes as well as voice mode. Devices which support multimodal access combine multiple user input modes or channels in the same interaction allowing a user to interact with the applications on the device simultaneously through multiple input modes or channels. The methods of input include speech recognition keyboard touch screen stylus mouse handwriting and others. Multimodal input often makes using a small device easier.

Multimodal applications are often formed by sets of markup documents served up by web servers for display on multimodal browsers. A multimodal browser as the term is used in this specification generally means a web browser capable of receiving multimodal input and interacting with users with multimodal output where modes of the multimodal input and output include at least a speech mode. Multimodal browsers typically render web pages written in XHTML Voice X V . X V provides a markup language that enables users to interact with an multimodal application often running on a server through spoken dialog in addition to traditional means of input such as keyboard strokes and mouse pointer action. Visual markup tells a multimodal browser what the user interface is look like and how it is to behave when the user types points or clicks. Similarly voice markup tells a multimodal browser what to do when the user speaks to it. For visual markup the multimodal browser uses a graphics engine for voice markup the multimodal browser uses a speech engine. X V adds spoken interaction to standard web content by integrating XHTML eXtensible Hypertext Markup Language and speech recognition vocabularies supported by VoiceXML. For visual markup X V includes the XHTML standard. For voice markup X V includes a subset of VoiceXML. For synchronizing the VoiceXML elements with corresponding visual interface elements X V uses events. XHTML includes voice modules that support speech synthesis speech dialogs command and control and speech grammars. Voice handlers can be attached to XHTML elements and respond to specific events. Voice interaction features are integrated with XHTML and can consequently be used directly within XHTML content.

In addition to X V multimodal applications also may be implemented with Speech Application Tags SALT . SALT is a markup language developed by the Salt Forum. Both X V and SALT are markup languages for creating applications that use voice input speech recognition and voice output speech synthesis. Both SALT applications and X V applications use underlying speech recognition and synthesis technologies or speech engines to do the work of recognizing and generating human speech. As markup languages both X V and SALT provide markup based programming environments for using speech engines in an application s user interface. Both languages have language elements markup tags that specify what the speech recognition engine should listen for and what the synthesis engine should say. Whereas X V combines XHTML VoiceXML and the XML Events standard to create multimodal applications SALT does not provide a standard visual markup language or eventing model. Rather it is a low level set of tags for specifying voice interaction that can be embedded into other environments. In addition to X V and SALT multimodal applications may be implemented in Java with a Java speech framework in C for example and with other technologies and in other environments as well.

Regardless of the technology used to implement a multimodal application processing a multimodal application typically requires modality services for each mode of user interaction supported by the multimodal application. Consider for example a multimodal application that supports both a graphical mode and a voice mode of user interaction. To process such a multimodal application both a graphical modality service and a visual modality service may be required. Because modality services are modular entities that may be used to customize a processing environment for a multimodal application processing may be provided for different multimodal applications by combining different modality services. The drawback to current technology used to process multimodal applications however is that such technology does not take advantage of the processing support available through web services architectures. Web services architectures are typically composed of modular web services designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network. As such readers will recognize that a need exists for web service support for processing a multimodal application.

Methods systems and products are disclosed for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application the multimodal client providing an execution environment for the multimodal application and operating on a multimodal device supporting multiple modes of user interaction including a voice mode and one or more non voice modes the multimodal application stored on an application server that include receiving by the application server an application request from the multimodal client the application request specifying the multimodal application and characteristics for the multimodal device determining by a multimodal adapter of the application server modality requirements for the multimodal application the modality requirements specifying characteristics of a modality web service capable of processing multimodal applications selecting by the multimodal adapter of the application server a particular modality web service in dependence upon the modality requirements and the characteristics for the multimodal device including retrieving an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service the particular modality web service capable of processing portions of the multimodal application that correspond to a particular mode of user interaction determining by the multimodal adapter of the application server whether the multimodal device supports Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP in dependence upon the characteristics for the multimodal device providing by the application server the multimodal application to the multimodal client and providing by the multimodal adapter of the application server to the multimodal client in dependence upon whether the multimodal device supports VoIP access to the particular modality web service for processing the multimodal application.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular descriptions of exemplary embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numbers generally represent like parts of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Exemplary methods apparatus and products for presenting supplemental content for digital media using a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings beginning with . sets forth a network diagram illustrating an exemplary system for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The exemplary system of includes a multimodal client operating on a multimodal device . The multimodal client of is a software component that provides an execution environment for the multimodal application . The multimodal client of may be implemented as a multimodal browser a Java Virtual Machine or any other software module as will occur to those of skill in the art capable of providing an execution environment for a multimodal application.

In the exemplary system of the multimodal device supports multiple modes of user interaction including a voice mode and one or more non voice modes. The voice mode is represented here with audio output of voice prompts and responses from the multimodal devices and audio input of speech for recognition from a user . Non voice modes are represented by input output devices such as keyboards and display screens on the multimodal devices .

In the exemplary system of the multimodal application is stored on an application server in the form of one or more X V pages accessible to the multimodal client through data communications network . Readers will note however that implementing the multimodal application as a set of X V pages is for explanation and not for limitation. As mentioned above a multimodal application may also be implemented as set of SALT documents a Java application or using any other technology as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The application server of is a computing device connected to data communications network through a wireline connection . The application server of provides multimodal applications to multimodal clients installed on multimodal devices. The application server of also brokers access to modality web services capable of processing portions of a multimodal application that correspond to particular modalities. Consider for example that an application server stores a multimodal application providing both a graphical mode and a voice mode of user interaction the graphical mode implemented using HTML markup and the voice mode implemented using VoiceXML markup. Further consider that a multimodal client requests the multimodal application from the application server but the multimodal client is only capable of processing the HTML markup. The application server may provide this multimodal application to a multimodal client and broker access to modality web service capable of processing the VoiceXML markup portions of the multimodal application that correspond to a voice mode of user interaction.

In the example of the application server has installed upon it an application server application . The application server application of is a software component capable of operating the application server for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The application server application of operates generally to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by receiving an application request from the multimodal client that specifies the multimodal application requested and characteristics for the multimodal device and providing the multimodal application to the multimodal client . The application request may specify the multimodal application using for example a Uniform Resource Identifier URI . The characteristics for the multimodal device included in the application request provide the application server with information about the multimodal device used in selecting a modality web service that appropriately supports the multimodal client in processing the multimodal application . The characteristics included in the message request may include for example data communications capabilities of the device codecs supported by the device language settings for the device and any other device characteristics as will occur to those of skill in the art.

In the example of the application server also has installed upon it a multimodal adapter . The multimodal adapter of is a software component that brokers access to modality web services to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The multimodal adapter of operates generally to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by determining modality requirements for the multimodal application selecting a particular modality web service in dependence upon the modality requirements and the characteristics for the multimodal device including retrieving an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service determining whether the multimodal device supports Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP in dependence upon the characteristics for the multimodal device and providing to the multimodal client in dependence upon whether the multimodal device supports VoIP access to the particular modality web service for processing the multimodal application . The modality requirements determined by the multimodal adapter for the multimodal application specify characteristics of a modality web service capable of processing multimodal applications. For example a multimodal adapter may identify a VoiceXML markup in a particular multimodal application and determine that such a multimodal application requires a modality web service capable of processing VoiceXML markup. Further consider that the multimodal application may specify a VoiceXML style sheet that specifies text to speech synthesis using the voice of Mickey Mouse. A multimodal adapter may determine that such a multimodal application requires a modality web service capable of processing VoiceXML markup using the voice of Mickey Mouse for speech synthesis.

VoIP stands for Voice over Internet Protocol a generic term for routing speech over an IP based data communications network. The speech data flows over a general purpose packet switched data communications network instead of traditional dedicated circuit switched voice transmission lines. Protocols used to carry voice signals over the IP data communications network are commonly referred to as Voice over IP or VoIP protocols. VoIP traffic may be deployed on any IP data communications network including data communications networks lacking a connection to the rest of the Internet for instance on a private building wide local area data communications network or LAN. 

A variety of protocols may be used to effect VoIP. The two most popular types of VoIP are effected with the IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP and the ITU s protocol known as H.323. SIP clients use port 5060 of the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and the User Datagram Protocol UDP to connect to SIP servers. SIP itself is used to set up and tear down calls for speech transmission. VoIP with SIP then uses Real time Transport Protocol RTP for transmitting the actual encoded speech. Similarly H.323 is an umbrella recommendation from the standards branch of the International Telecommunications Union that defines protocols to provide audio visual communication sessions on any packet data communications network.

As mentioned above the multimodal adapter provides access to the particular modality web service in dependence upon whether the multimodal device supports VoIP. If the multimodal adapter determines that the multimodal device supports VoIP the multimodal adapter may provide access to the particular modality web service by obtaining data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in dependence upon the interface descriptor and providing the data communication endpoint information to the multimodal client for direct access to the particular modality web service . If the multimodal adapter determines that the multimodal device does not support VoIP the multimodal adapter may provide access to the particular modality web service by obtaining data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in dependence upon the interface descriptor and providing data communication endpoint information of the multimodal adapter to the multimodal client for indirect access to the particular modality web service through the application server .

From the perspective of the multimodal client the multimodal client of operates generally for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The multimodal client of operates generally for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by transmitting the application request to the application server receiving the multimodal application from the application server in response to the application request receiving access to the particular modality web service from application server in response to the application request and executing the multimodal application using the particular modality web service including providing to the particular modality web service for processing the portions of the multimodal application that correspond to a particular mode of user interaction capable of being processed by the particular modality web service .

The exemplary system of includes a web service locator server which is a computing device connected to data communications network through a wireline connection . The web service locator server has installed upon it a locator application . The locator application of is a software component that provides a modality locator web service capable of providing an interface descriptor for a modality web service that satisfies certain criteria specified in an interface request. Readers will recall from above that the multimodal adapter may retrieve an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service . The multimodal adapter may retrieve an interface descriptor according to embodiments of the present invention by requesting the interface descriptor for the particular modality web service from the modality locator web service . The locator application provides the modality locator web service by receiving interface descriptor requests from the multimodal adapter and providing in response interface descriptors based on the request. The request may specify particular characteristics regarding the modality web services whose interface descriptors are returned to the multimodal adapter . For example the multimodal adapter may specify in an interface descriptor request that the only interface descriptors of interest to the adapter are interface descriptors of modality web services capable of processing VoiceXML mark and providing text to speech synthesis using the voice of Mickey Mouse.

In the exemplary system of the modality web service provides voice services to multimodal clients processing multimodal applications. The modality web service is provided by a voice server which is a computing device connected to the data communications network through a wireline connection . The voice server run a speech engine that provides voice recognition services for multimodal devices by accepting requests for speech recognition and returning text representing recognized speech. Voice server also provides speech synthesis text to speech TTS conversion for voice prompts and voice responses to user input in multimodal applications such as for example X V applications SALT applications or Java voice applications.

The voice server in the example of has installed upon it a voice server application a VoiceXML interpreter and a speech engine . The voice server application is a software component capable of operating a voice server in a system that provides web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present application. The voice server application of processes web services messages used to establish a VoIP connection between the voice server and either the application server or the multimodal device depending on whether the multimodal device supports VoIP. The voice server application also processes voice service requests provided through the VoIP connection using for example the VoiceXML interpreter and the speech engine . The voice server application may access the VoiceXML interpreter and the speech engine through application programming interfaces APIs exposed by each component respectively. Although in the example of the voice server application passes the speech along to the speech engine through a VoiceXML interpreter readers will note that the voice server application may pass the speech along to the speech engine through either Java Virtual Machine JVM a VoiceXML interpreter or a SALT interpreter depending on whether the multimodal application is implemented in X V Java or SALT.

The VoiceXML interpreter of is a software component that provides speech recognition and speech synthesis for a multimodal application implemented using for example X V. The multimodal application provides the voice server application with voice dialog instructions typically in the form of a VoiceXML element. The voice server application then in turn passes the voice dialog instructions to the VoiceXML interpreter . The VoiceXML interpreter administers the speech engine based on the voice dialog instructions and returns the speech engine output to the multimodal application through the voice server application . Depending on whether the multimodal device supports VoIP the voice server application may communicate with the multimodal client indirectly through the application server or directly to the multimodal device . The voice dialog instructions received from a multimodal application may include for example one or more grammars data input elements event handlers and so on that advise the VoiceXML interpreter how to administer voice input from a user and voice prompts and responses to be presented to a user. The VoiceXML interpreter administers such dialogs by processing the dialog instructions sequentially in accordance with a VoiceXML Form Interpretation Algorithm FIA . The output from the speech engine provided to the multimodal application may be in the form of recognized speech semantic interpretation results digitized speech for voice prompts and so on.

As mentioned above the voice dialog instructions processed by the VoiceXML interpreter typically include one or more grammars. A grammar communicates to the speech engine the words and sequences of words that currently may be recognized. A grammar typically includes grammar rules that advise a speech engine or a VoiceXML interpreter which words and word sequences presently can be recognized. Grammars for use according to embodiments of the present invention may be expressed in any format supported by an ASR engine including for example the Java Speech Grammar Format JSGF the format of the W3C Speech Recognition Grammar Specification SRGS the Augmented Backus Naur Format ABNF from the IETF s RFC2234 in the form of a stochastic grammar as described in the W3C s Stochastic Language Models N Gram Specification and in other grammar formats as may occur to those of skill in the art. For example consider the following exemplary grammar expressed in JSFG 

In this example the elements named and are rules of the grammar. Rules are a combination of a rulename and an expansion of a rule that advises a speech engine or a VoiceXML interpreter which words presently can be recognized. In the example above rule expansions includes conjunction and disjunction and the vertical bars mean or. A speech engine or a VoiceXML interpreter processes the rules in sequence first then then then then and then . The rule accepts for recognition whatever is returned from the rule along with whatever is returned from the rule the rule or the rule and optionally whatever is returned from the rule. The browse grammar as a whole matches utterances like these for example 

As mentioned above the voice server includes a speech engine . The speech engine of is a functional module typically a software module although it may include specialized hardware also that does the work of recognizing and synthesizing speech. The speech engine of implements speech recognition by use of a further module referred to in this specification as a automatic speech recognition ASR engine and the speech engine carries out speech synthesis by use of a further module referred to in this specification as a text to speech TTS engine.

The speech engine also includes a grammar a lexicon and a language specific acoustic model. The language specific acoustic model is a data structure a table or database for example that associates Speech Feature Vectors SFV with phonemes representing to the extent that it is practically feasible to do so all pronunciations of all the words in a human language. A SFV may be defined for example by the first twelve or thirteen Fourier or frequency domain components of a sample of digitized speech. The lexicon is an association of words in text form with phonemes representing pronunciations of each word the lexicon effectively identifies words that are capable of recognition by an ASR engine. To provide speech recognition the ASR engine receives speech for recognition in the form of at least one digitized word and uses frequency components of the digitized word to derive a SFV. The ASR engine can use the SFV to infer phonemes for the word from the language specific acoustic model and in turn uses the phonemes to find the word in the lexicon. To provide speech synthesis the TTS Engine accepts text as input and returns the same text in the form of digitally encoded speech for use in providing speech as prompts for and responses to users of multimodal systems.

The exemplary system of includes a multimodal interface server which is a computing device connected to data communications network through a wireline connection . The multimodal interface server has installed upon it an interface application . The interface application of is a software component that provides a multimodal shell web service capable of providing a multimodal client with a customized user interface. The multimodal shell web service of operates generally to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The multimodal shell web service operates generally to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by receiving a multimodal interface request from the multimodal client that specifies user data for a user of the multimodal device and attributes of the multimodal device configuring a multimodal interface in dependence upon the multimodal interface request and providing the multimodal interface to the multimodal client. The user data that is included in the multimodal interface request is data that describes a user of the multimodal device . For example user data may include a user identifier a user profile or any other data describing a user of the multimodal device.

Attributes of the multimodal device describe the multimodal device itself and the software installed on the multimodal device. For example attribute of the multimodal device may include a device identifier display type for the device information indicating whether the device supports JavaScript the version of the multimodal browser installed on the device the types of codecs supported by the device or any other information describing the multimodal device as will occur to those of skill in the art. Using the user data and the attributes for the multimodal device the multimodal shell web service may configure a customized multimodal interface for the multimodal client operating on the multimodal device .

As mentioned above the multimodal client of operates generally for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. In addition to the functionality described above the multimodal client of may also operates generally for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by transmitting a multimodal interface request to a multimodal shell web service receiving a multimodal user interface from the multimodal shell web service in response to the user interface request and rendering the multimodal user interface to a user.

In the exemplary system of a multimodal device on which a multimodal application operates is an automated device that is automated computing machinery or a computer program running on an automated device that is capable of accepting from users more than one mode of input such as for example keyboard mouse stylus and so on including speech input and also providing more than one mode of output such as for example graphic speech and so on. A multimodal device is generally capable of accepting speech input from a user digitizing the speech and providing digitized speech to a speech engine for recognition. A multimodal device may be implemented for example as a voice enabled browser on a laptop a voice browser on a telephone handset an online game implemented with Java on a personal computer and with other combinations of hardware and software as may occur to those of skill in the art. Because multimodal applications may be implemented in markup languages X V SALT object oriented languages Java C procedural languages the C programming language and in other kinds of computer languages as may occur to those of skill in the art a multimodal application may refer to any software application server oriented or client oriented thin client or thick client that administers more than one mode of input and more than one mode of output typically including visual and speech modes.

Each of the example multimodal devices in the system of includes a microphone an audio amplifier a digital to analog converter and a multimodal application capable of accepting from a user speech for recognition digitizing the speech and providing the digitized speech to a speech engine for recognition. The speech may be digitized according to industry standard codecs including but not limited to those used for Distributed Speech Recognition as such. Methods for COding DECoding speech are referred to as codecs. The European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI provides several codecs for encoding speech for use in DSR including for example the ETSI ES 201 108 DSR Front end Codec the ETSI ES 202 050 Advanced DSR Front end Codec the ETSI ES 202 211 Extended DSR Front end Codec and the ETSI ES 202 212 Extended Advanced DSR Front end Codec. In standards such as RFC3557 entitled 

Readers will note that the use of the four example multimodal devices described above is for explanation only not for limitation of the invention. Any automated computing machinery capable of accepting speech from a user providing digitized speech to an application server or a voice modality web service and receiving and playing speech prompts and responses from the application server or the voice modality web service may be improved to function as a multimodal device according to embodiments of the present invention.

The system of includes a data communications network that connects the multimodal devices the application server the voice server the web services locator server and the modality interface server for data communications. A data communications network for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention may be composed of a plurality of computers that function as data communications routers connected for data communications with packet switching protocols. Such a data communications network may be implemented with optical connections wireline connections or with wireless connections. Such a data communications network may include intranets internets local area data communications networks LANs and wide area data communications networks WANs . Such a data communications network may implement for example 

The arrangement of the multimodal devices the application server the voice server the web services locator server the modality interface server and the data communications network making up the exemplary system illustrated in are for explanation not for limitation. Data processing systems useful for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to various embodiments of the present invention may include additional servers routers other devices and peer to peer architectures not shown in as will occur to those of skill in the art. Data communications networks in such data processing systems may support many data communications protocols in addition to those noted above. Various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on a variety of hardware platforms in addition to those illustrated in .

As mentioned above if a multimodal adapter of an application server determines that a multimodal device supports VoIP the multimodal adapter may provide access to a particular modality web service by providing data communication endpoint information of the modality web service to the multimodal client for direct access to the particular modality web service. For further explanation sets forth a block diagram of an exemplary system configured to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention in which a multimodal adapter of an application server determines that a multimodal device supports VoIP. The multimodal client of operates on a multimodal device and provides an execution environment for the multimodal application . The multimodal client of may be implemented as a multimodal browser when the multimodal application is implemented using X V or SALT or may be implemented as a Java Virtual Machine when the multimodal application is implemented as a Java speech application.

In the exemplary system of the multimodal device supports multiple modes of user interaction including a voice mode and one or more non voice modes. The voice mode is represented here with audio output of voice prompts and responses from the multimodal devices and audio input of speech for recognition from a user . The multimodal device provides playback of voice prompts and responses using speaker and accepts audio input of speech for recognition through microphone . The speech for recognition is then digitized through an audio amplifier and a coder decoder codec of a sound card . Non voice modes are represented by input output devices such as keyboards and display screens on the multimodal device .

In the exemplary system of the multimodal application is stored on an application server in the form of one or more X V pages . Readers will note however that implementing the multimodal application as a set of X V pages is for explanation and not for limitation. As mentioned above a multimodal application may also be implemented as set of SALT documents a Java application or using any other technology as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The exemplary system of also includes an application server that provides multimodal applications to multimodal clients installed on multimodal devices. The application server of also brokers access to modality web services capable of processing portions of a multimodal application that correspond to particular modalities. Consider for example that an application server stores a multimodal application providing both a graphical mode and a voice mode of user interaction the graphical mode implemented using HTML markup and the voice mode implemented using VoiceXML markup. Further consider that a multimodal client requests the multimodal application from the application server but the multimodal client is only capable of processing the HTML markup. The application server may provide this multimodal application to a multimodal client and broker access to modality web service capable of processing the VoiceXML markup portions of the multimodal application that correspond to a voice mode of user interaction.

In the example of the application server has installed upon it an application server application . The application server application of is a software component capable of operating the application server for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The application server application of operates generally to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by receiving an application request from the multimodal client that specifies the multimodal application requested and characteristics for the multimodal device and providing the multimodal application to the multimodal client . Data communication between the multimodal client and the application server application is implemented using for example a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP connection .

In the example of the application server also has installed upon it a multimodal adapter . The multimodal adapter of is a software component that brokers access to modality web services to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The multimodal adapter of operates generally to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by determining modality requirements for the multimodal application selecting a particular modality web service in dependence upon the modality requirements and the characteristics for the multimodal device including retrieving an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service determining whether the multimodal device supports Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP in dependence upon the characteristics for the multimodal device and providing to the multimodal client in dependence upon whether the multimodal device supports VoIP access to the particular modality web service for processing the multimodal application . The modality requirements determined by the multimodal adapter for the multimodal application specify characteristics of a modality web service capable of processing multimodal applications. For example a multimodal adapter may identify a VoiceXML markup in a particular multimodal application and determine that such a multimodal application requires a modality web service capable of processing VoiceXML markup. Further consider that the multimodal application may specify a VoiceXML style sheet that specifies text to speech synthesis using the voice of Mickey Mouse. A multimodal adapter may determine that such a multimodal application requires a modality web service capable of processing VoiceXML markup using the voice of Mickey Mouse for speech synthesis.

In the example of the multimodal adapter may retrieves an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service by requesting the interface descriptor for the particular modality web service from a modality locator web service . An interface descriptor describes the interface used to communicate with a web service such as for example the structure of the messages the web service sends and receives the protocols used to communicate the messages where to access the web service and so on. An interface descriptor may be implemented using the Web Services Description Language WSDL . The Web Services Description Language is an XML based language that provides a model for describing Web services. The data communication connection between the multimodal adapter and the modality locator web service may be implemented using for example a SOAP connection . SOAP is a protocol for exchanging XML based messages over computer networks normally using HTTP. SOAP forms the foundation layer of the web services stack providing a basic messaging framework that more abstract layers can build on. A SOAP connection as referred to in this specification is an HTTP connection used to transmit SOAP message. To access the modality locator web service the multimodal adapter may maintain the interface descriptor for the modality locator web service locally on the application server .

The exemplary system of includes a web service locator server that has installed upon it a locator application . The locator application of is a software component that provides the modality locator web service capable of providing an interface descriptor for a modality web service that satisfies certain criteria specified in an interface request. Using the criteria specified in the interface request from the multimodal adapter the modality locator web service may lookup an interface descriptor that satisfies the provided criteria in a database . The locator application may access the database through an API specified by for example the Open Database Connectivity ODBC or Java Database Connectivity JDBC standards. The database may also be implemented as a Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI database made available to the modality locator web service using standard web service messaging technology.

As mentioned above the multimodal adapter in the example of determines that the multimodal device supports VoIP. The multimodal adapter may make such a determination using the device characteristics included in the application request provided to the application server . Typically a determination that the multimodal device supports VoIP indicates that the multimodal device has installed upon it a VoIP subsystem capable of implementing a VoIP connection using VoIP protocols such as for example SIP and RTP. In the example of the multimodal device does in fact have installed upon it a VoIP subsystem that exposes an API to the multimodal client . When the multimodal adapter of determines that the multimodal device supports VoIP the multimodal adapter may provide the multimodal client with access to the particular modality web service by obtaining data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in dependence upon the interface descriptor retrieved from the modality locator web service and providing the data communication endpoint information to the multimodal client for direct access to the particular modality web service .

Using the interface descriptor the multimodal adapter obtains data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in the example of through a SOAP connection between the multimodal adapter and the modality web service . The data communication endpoint information obtained specifies information about the modality web service used to establish a VoIP connection through which voice services are provided by the modality web service . Such data communication endpoint information may include for example the IP address of the voice server the port for the voice server application used for VoIP communication session information security data and other information as will occur to those of skill in the art.

After obtaining the data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service the multimodal adapter of provides the data communication endpoint information to the multimodal client for direct access to the particular modality web service . The multimodal adapter may provide the data communication endpoint information to the multimodal client along with the multimodal application in a response to the multimodal client s application request. The multimodal client may then provide the data communication endpoint information to the VoIP subsystem installed on the multimodal device which in turn establishes a VoIP connection with the modality web service to provide voice services as the multimodal client processes the multimodal application .

From the perspective of the multimodal client the multimodal client of transmits the application request to the application server . The application request specifies the multimodal application using for example a URI and characteristics for the multimodal device that may include for example an indication of whether the multimodal device has installed upon it a VoIP subsystem. In response to the application request the multimodal client of receives the multimodal application from the application server and receives access to the particular modality web service from application server . The multimodal client of executes the multimodal application using the particular modality web service including providing to the particular modality web service for processing the portions of the multimodal application that correspond to a particular mode of user interaction capable of being processed by the particular modality web service . In the example of the multimodal client provides VoiceXML voice dialog instructions to the modality web service for voice processing.

In the example of the modality web service is implemented using a voice server having installed upon it a voice server application a VoiceXML interpreter a Java Virtual Machine a SALT interpreter and a speech engine . The voice server application processes voice service requests received through the VoIP connection by passing the speech for recognition grammars text for speech synthesis and other input to the speech engine through the VoiceXML interpreter the SALT interpreter or the Java Virtual Machine depending on the whether the multimodal application is implemented using X V SALT or as a Java speech application. The voice server application then provides responses to the voice service requests by passing the text semantic interpretation results synthesized speech and other speech engine output directly to the multimodal client through the VoIP connection .

The exemplary system of also includes a multimodal interface server having installed upon it an interface application . The interface application of is a software component that provides a multimodal shell web service capable of providing a multimodal client with a customized user interface. The multimodal shell web service of provides web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The multimodal shell web service receives a multimodal interface request from the multimodal client that specifies user data for a user of the multimodal device and attributes of the multimodal device. The user data that is included in the multimodal interface request is data that describes a user of the multimodal device . For example user data may include a user identifier a user profile or any other data describing a user of the multimodal device. Attributes of the multimodal device describe the multimodal device itself and the software installed on the multimodal device. For example attribute of the multimodal device may include a device identifier display type for the device information indicating whether the device supports JavaScript the version of the multimodal browser installed on the device the types of codecs supported by the device or any other information describing the multimodal device as will occur to those of skill in the art. Using the user data and the attributes for the multimodal device the multimodal shell web service of configures a customized multimodal interface for the multimodal client operating on the multimodal device and provides the multimodal interface to the multimodal client . The data communication between the multimodal client and the multimodal shell web service may be implemented using for example a SOAP connection .

From the perspective of the multimodal device the multimodal client of transmits a multimodal interface request to a multimodal shell web service . The multimodal interface request specifies user data for a user of the multimodal device and attributes of the multimodal device itself. In response to the user interface request the multimodal client of receives a multimodal user interface from the multimodal shell web service and renders the multimodal user interface to a user.

As mentioned above if a multimodal adapter of an application server determines that a multimodal device does not support VoIP the multimodal adapter may provide access to a particular modality web service by providing the multimodal adapter s data communication endpoint information to a multimodal client for indirect access to the particular modality web service through an application server on which the multimodal adapter is installed. For further explanation sets forth a block diagram of a further exemplary system configured to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention in which a multimodal adapter of an application server determines that a multimodal device does not support VoIP.

The exemplary system of is similar to the exemplary system of . The exemplary system of includes a multimodal device that provides playback of voice prompts and responses using speaker and accepts audio input of speech for recognition through microphone . The speech for recognition is then digitized through an audio amplifier and a coder decoder codec of a sound card . The multimodal device has installed upon it a multimodal client that provides an execution environment for the multimodal application . The multimodal client of may be implemented as a multimodal browser when the multimodal application is implemented using X V or SALT or may be implemented as a Java Virtual Machine when the multimodal application is implemented as a Java speech application.

The exemplary system of also includes an application server that provides multimodal applications to multimodal clients installed on multimodal devices. The application server of also brokers access to modality web services capable of processing portions of a multimodal application that correspond to particular modalities. The application server has installed upon it an application server application . The application server application of is a software component capable of operating the application server for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The application server application of operates generally to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by receiving an application request from the multimodal client that specifies the multimodal application requested and characteristics for the multimodal device and providing the multimodal application to the multimodal client . Data communication between the multimodal client and the application server application is implemented using for example a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP connection .

In the example of the application server also has installed upon it a multimodal adapter . The multimodal adapter of is a software component that brokers access to modality web services to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The multimodal adapter of operates generally to provide web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention by determining modality requirements for the multimodal application selecting a particular modality web service in dependence upon the modality requirements and the characteristics for the multimodal device including retrieving an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service determining whether the multimodal device supports Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP in dependence upon the characteristics for the multimodal device and providing to the multimodal client in dependence upon whether the multimodal device supports VoIP access to the particular modality web service for processing the multimodal application . The modality requirements determined by the multimodal adapter for the multimodal application specify characteristics of a modality web service capable of processing multimodal applications. For example a multimodal adapter may identify a VoiceXML markup in a particular multimodal application and determine that such a multimodal application requires a modality web service capable of processing VoiceXML markup. Further consider that the multimodal application may specify a VoiceXML style sheet that specifies text to speech synthesis using the voice of Mickey Mouse. A multimodal adapter may determine that such a multimodal application requires a modality web service capable of processing VoiceXML markup using the voice of Mickey Mouse for speech synthesis.

In the example of the multimodal adapter may retrieves an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service by requesting the interface descriptor for the particular modality web service from a modality locator web service . An interface descriptor describes the interface used to communicate with a web service such as for example the structure of the messages the web service sends and receives the protocols used to communicate the messages where to access the web service and so on. An interface descriptor may be implemented using the Web Services Description Language. The data communication connection between the multimodal adapter and the modality locator web service may be implemented using for example a SOAP connection . To access the modality locator web service the multimodal adapter may maintain the interface descriptor for the modality locator web service locally on the application server .

The exemplary system of includes a web service locator server that has installed upon it a locator application . The locator application of is a software component that provides the modality locator web service capable of providing an interface descriptor for a modality web service that satisfies certain criteria specified in an interface request. Using the criteria specified in the interface request from the multimodal adapter the modality locator web service may lookup an interface descriptor that satisfies the provided criteria in a database .

As mentioned above the multimodal adapter in the example of determines that the multimodal device does not support VoIP. The multimodal adapter may make such a determination using the device characteristics included in the application request provided to the application server . Typically a determination that the multimodal device does not support VoIP indicates that the multimodal device does not have installed upon it a VoIP subsystem capable of implementing a VoIP connection using VoIP protocols such as for example SIP and RTP. In the example of the multimodal device in fact does not have installed upon it a VoIP subsystem. When the multimodal adapter of determines that the multimodal device does not support VoIP the multimodal adapter may provide the multimodal client with access to the particular modality web service by obtaining data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in dependence upon the interface descriptor retrieved from the modality locator web service and providing data communication endpoint information of the multimodal adapter to the multimodal client for indirect access to the particular modality web service through the application server .

Using the interface descriptor the multimodal adapter obtains data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in the example of through a SOAP connection between the multimodal adapter and the modality web service . The data communication endpoint information obtained specifies information about the modality web service used to establish a VoIP connection through which voice services are provided by the modality web service . Such data communication endpoint information may include for example the IP address of the voice server the port for the voice server application used for VoIP communication session information security data and other information as will occur to those of skill in the art.

After obtaining the data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service the multimodal adapter of provides the modality web service s data communication endpoint information to a VoIP subsystem through API to establish VoIP connection with the modality web service . The multimodal adapter then provides data communication endpoint information of the multimodal adapter to the multimodal client for indirect access to the particular modality web service through the application server . The multimodal adapter may provide the multimodal adapter s data communication endpoint information to the multimodal client along with the multimodal application in a response to the multimodal client s application request.

Using the multimodal adapter s data communication endpoint information the multimodal client establishes an HTTP connection with the multimodal adapter . The multimodal client then provides voice service requests to the multimodal adapter through the HTTP connection . The multimodal adapter repackages the voice service requests for transmission to the modality web service through the VoIP connection established by the VoIP subsystem . After the modality web service processes the voice service requests the multimodal adapter receives the results through the VoIP connection from the modality web service and repackages the results for transmission to the multimodal client through the HTTP connection . In such an embodiment the multimodal adapter operates as an intermediary for communication between the multimodal client and the modality web service when the multimodal device does not support VoIP.

From the perspective of the multimodal client the multimodal client of transmits the application request to the application server . The application request specifies the multimodal application using for example a URI and characteristics for the multimodal device that may include for example an indication of whether the multimodal device has installed upon it a VoIP subsystem. In response to the application request the multimodal client of receives the multimodal application from the application server and receives access to the particular modality web service from application server . The multimodal client of executes the multimodal application using the particular modality web service including providing to the particular modality web service for processing the portions of the multimodal application that correspond to a particular mode of user interaction capable of being processed by the particular modality web service . In the example of the multimodal client provides VoiceXML voice dialog instructions to the modality web service for voice processing.

In the example of the modality web service is implemented using a voice server having installed upon it a voice server application a VoiceXML interpreter a Java Virtual Machine a SALT interpreter and a speech engine . The voice server application processes voice service requests received through the VoIP connection by passing the speech for recognition grammars text for speech synthesis and other input to the speech engine through the VoiceXML interpreter the SALT interpreter or the Java Virtual Machine depending on the whether the multimodal application is implemented using X V SALT or as a Java speech application. The voice server application then provides responses to the voice service requests by passing the text semantic interpretation results synthesized speech and other speech engine output indirectly to the multimodal client through the VoIP connection and application server .

Similar to the exemplary system of the exemplary system of also includes a multimodal interface server having installed upon it an interface application . The interface application of is a software component that provides a multimodal shell web service capable of providing a multimodal client with a customized user interface. The multimodal shell web service of provides web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The multimodal shell web service receives a multimodal interface request from the multimodal client that specifies user data for a user of the multimodal device and attributes of the multimodal device. The user data that is included in the multimodal interface request is data that describes a user of the multimodal device . Attributes of the multimodal device describe the multimodal device itself and the software installed on the multimodal device. Using the user data and the attributes for the multimodal device the multimodal shell web service of configures a customized multimodal interface for the multimodal client operating on the multimodal device and provides the multimodal interface to the multimodal client . The data communication between the multimodal client and the multimodal shell web service may be implemented using for example a SOAP connection .

From the perspective of the multimodal device the multimodal client of transmits a multimodal interface request to a multimodal shell web service . The multimodal interface request specifies user data for a user of the multimodal device and attributes of the multimodal device itself. In response to the user interface request the multimodal client of receives a multimodal user interface from the multimodal shell web service and renders the multimodal user interface to a user.

Web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention may be implemented with one or more computers operating as application servers multimodal devices voice servers web service locator servers interface servers and so on. For further explanation therefore sets forth a block diagram of automated computing machinery comprising an example of a computer useful as an application server in web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The application server of includes at least one computer processor or CPU as well as random access memory RAM which is connected through a high speed memory bus and bus adapter to processor and to other components of the application server .

Stored in RAM are an application server application X V pages multimodal adapter and VoIP subsystem . The X V pages are markup language documents conforming to X V that composes one or more multimodal applications. The application server application multimodal adapter and VoIP subsystem is similar to and operates in the same manner as the application server application multimodal adapter and VoIP subsystem described above with reference to and .

Also stored in RAM is an operating system . Operating systems useful in voice servers according to embodiments of the present invention include UNIX Linux Microsoft NT IBM s AIX IBM s i5 OS and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Operating system application server application X V pages multimodal adapter and VoIP subsystem in the example of are shown in RAM but many components of such software typically are stored in non volatile memory also for example on a disk drive .

Application server of includes bus adapter a computer hardware component that contains drive electronics for high speed buses the front side bus the video bus and the memory bus as well as drive electronics for the slower expansion bus . Examples of bus adapters useful in application servers according to embodiments of the present invention include the Intel Northbridge the Intel Memory Controller Hub the Intel Southbridge and the Intel I O Controller Hub. Examples of expansion buses useful in application servers according to embodiments of the present invention include Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI buses and PCI Express PCIe buses.

Application server of includes disk drive adapter coupled through expansion bus and bus adapter to processor and other components of the application server . Disk drive adapter connects non volatile data storage to the application server in the form of disk drive . Disk drive adapters useful in application servers include Integrated Drive Electronics IDE adapters Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapters and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. In addition non volatile computer memory may be implemented for a application server as an optical disk drive electrically erasable programmable read only memory so called EEPROM or Flash memory RAM drives and so on as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The example application server of includes one or more input output I O adapters . I O adapters in voice servers implement user oriented input output through for example software drivers and computer hardware for controlling output to display devices such as computer display screens as well as user input from user input devices such as keyboards and mice. The example application server of includes a video adapter which is an example of an I O adapter specially designed for graphic output to a display device such as a display screen or computer monitor. Video adapter is connected to processor through a high speed video bus bus adapter and the front side bus which is also a high speed bus.

The exemplary application server of includes a communications adapter for data communications with other computers and for data communications with a data communications network . Such data communications may be carried out serially through RS 232 connections through external buses such as a Universal Serial Bus USB through data communications data communications networks such as IP data communications networks and in other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. Communications adapters implement the hardware level of data communications through which one computer sends data communications to another computer directly or through a data communications network. Examples of communications adapters useful for web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention include modems for wired dial up communications Ethernet IEEE 802.3 adapters for wired data communications network communications and 802.11 adapters for wireless data communications network communications.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method of web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The multimodal client described in provides an execution environment for the multimodal application. In the example of the multimodal client operates on a multimodal device supporting multiple modes of user interaction including a voice mode and one or more non voice modes. The multimodal application is stored on an application server operatively connected to the multimodal device through a data communications network.

The method of includes receiving by the application server an application request from the multimodal client. The application server may receive an application request from the multimodal client according to the method of through a data communication connection implemented according to Hypertext Transfer Protocol. The application request of specifies the multimodal application using an application identifier . The application identifier of may be implemented using for example a Uniform Resource Identifier. The application request of also specifies characteristics for the multimodal device. The characteristics for the multimodal device included in the application request provide the application server with information about the multimodal device used in selecting a modality web service that appropriately supports the multimodal client in processing the multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The characteristics included in the message request may include for example data communications capabilities of the device codecs supported by the device language settings for the device and any other device characteristics as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of also includes providing by the application server the multimodal application to the multimodal client. The application server may provide the multimodal application to the multimodal client according to the method of by retrieving the multimodal application from a set of X V pages based on the application identifier encapsulating the multimodal application into an HTTP message transmitting the HTTP message to the multimodal client in response to the application request .

The method of includes determining by a multimodal adapter of the application server modality requirements for the multimodal application . The modality requirements of represent a set of data that specifies characteristics of a modality web service capable of processing portions of the multimodal application . The multimodal adapter may determine the modality requirements for the multimodal application according to the method of by parsing the multimodal application to identify processing specifications contained in the multimodal application . For example a multimodal adapter may identify a VoiceXML markup in a particular multimodal application and determine that such a multimodal application requires a modality web service capable of processing VoiceXML markup. Further consider that the multimodal application may specify a VoiceXML style sheet that specifies text to speech synthesis using the voice of Mickey Mouse. A multimodal adapter may determine that such a multimodal application requires a modality web service capable of processing VoiceXML markup using the voice of Mickey Mouse for speech synthesis.

The method of also includes selecting by the multimodal adapter of the application server a particular modality web service in dependence upon the modality requirements and the characteristics for the multimodal device. Selecting by the multimodal adapter of the application server a particular modality web service according to the method of includes retrieving an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service . An interface descriptor describes the interface used to communicate with a web service such as for example the structure of the messages the web service sends and receives the protocols used to communicate the messages where to access the web service and so on. An interface descriptor may be implemented using the Web Services Description Language.

In the method of the multimodal adapter may retrieve an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service using a local database accessible to the multimodal adapter through for example an API specified by ODBC or JDBC standards. The multimodal adapter may also retrieve an interface descriptor for the particular modality web service according to the method of by requesting the interface descriptor for the particular modality web service from a modality locator web service. Regardless of whether the multimodal adapter retrieves the interface descriptor for the particular modality web service from a local database or the modality locator web service in the example of the interface descriptor enables the multimodal adapter to communicate with the particular modality web service .

The modality locator web service is a web service capable of providing an interface descriptor for a modality web service that satisfies certain criteria specified in an interface request. Using the criteria specified in the interface request from the multimodal adapter the modality locator web service may lookup an interface descriptor that satisfies the provided criteria in a database. The modality locator web service may access the database through an API specified by for example ODBC or JDBC standards. The database may also be implemented as a UDDI database made available to the modality locator web service using standard web service messaging technology. To request the interface descriptor for the particular modality web service from a modality locator web service the multimodal adapter must typically already have the modality locator web service s interface descriptor. The multimodal adapter may maintain the interface descriptor for the modality locator web service locally on the application server.

The method of includes determining by the multimodal adapter of the application server whether the multimodal device supports Voice Over Internet Protocol in dependence upon the characteristics for the multimodal device. The multimodal adapter may determine whether the multimodal device supports VoIP according to the method of by identifying from the device characteristics whether the multimodal device has installed upon it a VoIP subsystem capable of establishing a VoIP connection using VoIP protocols such as for example SIP or RTP. If the device characteristics indicate that the multimodal device has installed upon it a VoIP subsystem then the multimodal adapter may determine that the multimodal device supports VoIP. If the device characteristics indicate that the multimodal device does not have installed upon it a VoIP subsystem then the multimodal adapter may determine that the multimodal device does not support VoIP.

The method of also includes providing by the multimodal adapter of the application server to the multimodal client in dependence upon whether the multimodal device supports VoIP access to the particular modality web service for processing the multimodal application . When the multimodal adapter determines that the multimodal device supports VoIP the multimodal adapter may provide access to the particular modality web service according to the method of by obtaining data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in dependence upon the interface descriptor and providing the data communication endpoint information to the multimodal client for direct access to the particular modality web service . The multimodal adapter may obtain data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in dependence upon the interface descriptor according to the method of by creating a data communication endpoint request message as specified by the interface descriptor for the modality web service transmitting the data communication endpoint request message to the modality web service through a SOAP connection specified in the interface descriptor and receiving in return the data communication endpoint information in a response message as specified by the interface descriptor . The multimodal adapter may provide the data communication endpoint information to the multimodal client for direct access to the particular modality web service according to the method of by encapsulating the modality web service s data communication endpoint information along with the multimodal application in an HTTP message and transmitting the HTTP message back to the multimodal client in response to the application request .

When the multimodal adapter determines that the multimodal device does not support VoIP the multimodal adapter may provide access to the particular modality web service according to the method of by obtaining by the multimodal adapter data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in dependence upon the interface descriptor and providing by the multimodal adapter data communication endpoint information of the multimodal adapter to the multimodal client for indirect access to the particular modality web service through the application server. The multimodal adapter may obtain data communication endpoint information of the particular modality web service in dependence upon the interface descriptor according to the method of by creating a data communication endpoint request message as specified by the interface descriptor for the modality web service transmitting the data communication endpoint request message to the modality web service through a SOAP connection specified in the interface descriptor and receiving in return the data communication endpoint information in a response message as specified by the interface descriptor . The multimodal adapter may provide data communication endpoint information of the multimodal adapter to the multimodal client for indirect access to the particular modality web service through the application server according to the method of by encapsulating the multimodal adapter s data communication endpoint information along with the multimodal application in an HTTP message and transmitting the HTTP message back to the multimodal client in response to the application request .

Turning now to the perspective from the multimodal client installed on the multimodal device sets forth a flow chart illustrating a further exemplary method of web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The method of includes transmitting by the multimodal client the application request to the application server. The multimodal client may transmit the application request to the application server according to the method of by encapsulating an application identifier and device characteristics into an HTTP request message and transmitting the HTTP request message to the application server according to the Hypertext Transfer Protocol.

In the example of the application request specifies the multimodal application using an application identifier . The application identifier of may be implemented using for example a Uniform Resource Identifier. The application request of also specifies characteristics for the multimodal device. The characteristics for the multimodal device included in the application request provide the application server with information about the multimodal device used in selecting a modality web service that appropriately supports the multimodal client in processing the multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention. The characteristics included in the message request may include for example data communications capabilities of the device codecs supported by the device language settings for the device and any other device characteristics as will occur to those of skill in the art. As mentioned above the application server uses the device characteristics to select a particular modality web service capable of processing a multimodal application for the multimodal device.

The method of includes receiving by the multimodal client from the application server in response to the application request the multimodal application . The multimodal client may receive the multimodal application from the application server in response to the application request according to the method of by accepting an HTTP message transmitted from the application server and unencapsulating the multimodal application from the received HTTP message.

The method of also includes receiving by the multimodal client from application server in response to the application request access to the particular modality web service. The multimodal client may receive access to a particular modality web service in response to the application request according to the method of by accepting an HTTP message transmitted from the application server and unencapsulating data communications endpoint information from the received HTTP message. The data communications endpoint information of may represent data communications endpoint information of a modality web service used to establish a VoIP connection with the modality web service when the device characteristics provided in the application request indicate that the multimodal device supports VoIP. The data communications endpoint information of may represent data communications endpoint information of a multimodal adapter used to establish an HTTP connection with the multimodal adapter when the device characteristics provided in the application request indicate that the multimodal device does not support VoIP.

The method of includes executing by the multimodal client the multimodal application using the particular modality web service. In the method of the multimodal client executes the multimodal application using the particular modality web service by providing to the particular modality web service for processing the portions of the multimodal application that correspond to the particular mode of user interaction capable of being processed by the particular modality web service. When the multimodal device supports VoIP the multimodal client may provide portions of the multimodal application to the particular modality web service for processing according to the method of by identifying the portions of the multimodal application capable of being processed by the particular modality web service transmitting those portions directly to the particular modality web service through the VoIP established with the particular web service modality and receiving the processed results through the direct VoIP connection between the multimodal client and the modality web service. For example the multimodal client may identify VoiceXML instructions in the multimodal application provide those instructions along with any other voice input through a VoIP connection to the particular modality service capable of processing the VoiceXML instructions and receive in return through the VoIP connection recognition results semantic interpretation results synthesized speech and so on.

When the multimodal device does not support VoIP the multimodal client may provide portions of the multimodal application to the particular modality web service for processing according to the method of by identifying the portions of the multimodal application capable of being processed by the particular modality web service transmitting those portions indirectly to the particular modality web service through the application server according to HTTP and receiving the processed results from the modality web service through the application server using the HTTP connection. For example the multimodal client may identify VoiceXML instructions in the multimodal application provide those instructions along with any other voice input to the application server which in turn passes the instructions along with any other voice input to the modality web service using a VoIP connection. The application server then receives recognition results semantic interpretation results synthesized speech and so on from the modality web service through the VoIP connection and in turn passes the results back to the multimodal client using an HTTP connection.

The descriptions above with reference to explain how web services may support a multimodal client by providing access to a modality web service for processing the multimodal application. In addition web services may also support a multimodal client by providing a customized multimodal interface to the multimodal client. For further explanation therefore sets forth a flow chart illustrating a further exemplary method of web service support for a multimodal client processing a multimodal application according to embodiments of the present invention that includes transmitting by the multimodal client a multimodal interface request to a multimodal shell web service. A multimodal shell web service is a web service capable of providing a multimodal client with a customized user interface.

Transmitting by the multimodal client a multimodal interface request to a multimodal shell web service according to the method of may be carried out by encapsulating user data for a user of the multimodal device and attributes of the multimodal device in an XML based message according to the interface descriptor for the multimodal shell web service wrapping the XML based message with a SOAP header to form a SOAP message and transmitting the SOAP message to the multimodal shell web service using HTTP. In the example of the multimodal interface request specifies user data for a user of the multimodal device. The user data represents data that describes a user of the multimodal device . For example user data may include a user identifier a user profile or any other data describing a user of the multimodal device. The multimodal interface request also specifies attributes of the multimodal device. The attributes of describe the multimodal device itself and the software installed on the multimodal device. For example attribute of the multimodal device may include a device identifier display type for the device information indicating whether the device supports JavaScript the version of the multimodal browser installed on the device the types of codecs supported by the device or any other information describing the multimodal device as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of also includes receiving by a multimodal shell web service a multimodal interface request from the multimodal client. The multimodal shell web service may receive the multimodal interface request from the multimodal client according to the method of by accepting a SOAP message from the multimodal client and unencapsulating the user data and the device attributes from the SOAP message.

The method of also includes configuring by the multimodal shell web service a multimodal interface in dependence upon the user data and the attributes of the multimodal device. The multimodal shell web service may configure a multimodal interface according to the method of by retrieving interface components from an interface repository based on the user data and the attributes of the multimodal device. Interface components may include for example buttons icons lists graphics videos voice dialogs grammars prompts and so on as well as executable code implemented using for example JavaScript to add a level of functionality to the other interface components. Using the user data and the attributes of the multimodal device allows a multimodal shell web service to configure a customized multimodal interface for the multimodal client. Such a customized multimodal interface advantageously provides the user with an interface that conforms to the user s personality by using color schemes graphics synthesized voices and so on that appeal to the user in the interface . Such a multimodal interface may also be used to allow advertisers to customize the multimodal interface to include advertising content rendered to the user both visually and aurally through multimodal device on which the multimodal client operates.

The method of includes providing by the multimodal shell web service the multimodal interface to the multimodal client. The multimodal shell web service may provide the multimodal interface to the multimodal client according to the method of by bundling the interface components of the multimodal interface together in for example a Java Archive file encapsulating the bundled components into a multimodal interface response message implemented using SOAP and transmitting the multimodal interface response to the multimodal client.

The method of includes receiving by the multimodal client from the multimodal shell web service a multimodal user interface in response to the user interface request . The multimodal client may receive a multimodal user interface from the multimodal shell web service in response to the user interface request according to the method of by accepting the multimodal interface response and unencapsulating the multimodal interface from the multimodal interface response .

The method of also includes rendering by the multimodal client the multimodal user interface to a user. The method of may render the multimodal user interface to the user according to the method of by displaying the visual components of the multimodal interface on a display screen of the multimodal device playing any audio prompts provided providing any voice dialogs to the appropriate voice modality web service for processing and executing any scripts that provide further functionality for the multimodal interface .

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described largely in the context of a fully functional computer system for presenting supplemental content for digital media using a multimodal application. Readers of skill in the art will recognize however that the present invention also may be embodied in a computer program product disposed on signal bearing media for use with any suitable data processing system. Such signal bearing media may be transmission media or recordable media for machine readable information including magnetic media optical media or other suitable media. Examples of recordable media include magnetic disks in hard drives or diskettes compact disks for optical drives magnetic tape and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Examples of transmission media include telephone networks for voice communications and digital data communications networks such as for example Ethernets and networks that communicate with the Internet Protocol and the World Wide Web. Persons skilled in the art will immediately recognize that any computer system having suitable programming means will be capable of executing the steps of the method of the invention as embodied in a program product. Persons skilled in the art will recognize immediately that although some of the exemplary embodiments described in this specification are oriented to software installed and executing on computer hardware nevertheless alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that modifications and changes may be made in various embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. The descriptions in this specification are for purposes of illustration only and are not to be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is limited only by the language of the following claims.

