---

title: Interface for visually searching and navigating objects
abstract: Interfaces, apparatuses, and methods for searching and navigating a set of objects are provided. In one example, an interface includes a field for entering filter criteria for searching a set of objects and a display portion for displaying tiles associated with the objects according to the filter criteria. The tiles are displayed such that the best match to the filter criteria is displayed centrally and/or larger relative to other displayed tiles within the display portion. For example, the set of objects may be ranked according to the filter criteria by a suitable algorithm to determine the object having the highest rank or best match to the filter criteria. Further, tiles associated with lower ranked objects may be displayed concentrically around the best match such that the display centers on the tiles associated with the highest ranked objects per the filter criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941429&OS=07941429&RS=07941429
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 07941429
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070710
---
The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for user interfaces and in one example to a user interface for visually searching and navigating an inventory of objects.

The Internet and other networks interconnect computers and computing devices to allow for easy transport of data over network connections. Commonly computers and computing devices are organized using well known client server models wherein network connections are established between some computers or computing devices that act as servers and some computers or computing devices that act as clients. An example of a server is a web server and an example of a client is a web client such as a personal computer device running a web browser program. Generally a web client operates according to the interface to issue requests to web servers using well known or other suitable protocols. In response to requests received web servers return data responses. In a typical web client server interaction HTTP protocol is used wherein the web client issues a request directed at a particular web server address for a page represented by a URL in the request and a server responsive to the particular web server address responds with data that may be a page to be displayed or other data set. Generally regardless of the actual data being requested and returned the data returned is referred to as a web page.

Web pages often include interfaces for searching inventories of objects for example a set of objects available from a particular source or sources. A web interface might search for web pages media objects e.g. image files video files audio files and so on products and so on. Typically a user may enter search criteria such as keywords or attributes and the server returns search results generally by generating a top down relevancy order based on the search criteria and a particular searching algorithm. The search results displayed as a list according to the relevance order beginning with the best match listed first.

According to some aspects of the inventions provided herein interfaces apparatuses and methods are provided for searching and navigating objects. In one example described herein an interface includes a field for entering filter criteria for searching a set of objects and a display window for displaying tiles associated with the objects according to the filter criteria. The tiles are displayed such that the best match to the filter criteria is displayed centrally and or larger relative to other displayed tiles within the display window. For example the set of objects may be ranked according to the filter criteria by a suitable algorithm to determine the object having the highest rank or best match to the filter criteria as well as the relative positioning of other tiles e.g. tiles associated with objects ranked according to the filter criteria . In one example tiles associated with lower ranked objects are displayed concentrically around the best match such that the display centers on the tiles associated with the highest ranked objects per the filter criteria.

The tiles may include an image and or text associated with the object. The tiles may further include multiple display states and may be selectable to access additional information or content associated with the object. Further the display of tiles may be navigated similar to conventional map application e.g. whereby a user may pan or zoom in and out e.g. to display fewer or more tiles .

In another aspect apparatus is provided for causing the display of a search interface. In one example the apparatus includes logic for receiving filter criteria for filtering a set of objects and logic for causing the display of a plurality of tiles associated with the set of objects the tiles displayed based on a ranking of at least a portion of the set of objects according to the filter criteria wherein a tile associated with the highest ranking object is displayed centrally relative to other tiles. The apparatus may further include logic for determining a ranking of at least a portion of the set of objects based on the filter criteria.

In another aspect of the present invention a method is provided for searching objects. In one example the method includes receiving filter criteria for searching a set of objects ranking at least a portion of the objects based on the filter criteria and displaying tiles associated with the at least a portion of the objects based on the ranking wherein an image associated with the highest ranked object is displayed centrally relative to other displayed tiles.

According to another aspect of the present invention a computer readable medium encoded with computer program instructions for searching a set of objects is provided. In one example the computer program instructions include program code for receiving filter criteria for filtering a set of objects and program code for causing a display of a plurality of tiles associated with the set of objects the tiles displayed based on a ranking of at least a portion of the set of objects according to the filter criteria wherein a tile associated with the highest ranking object is displayed centrally relative to other tiles.

The various aspects and examples of the present inventions are better understood upon consideration of the detailed description below in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the inventions. Descriptions of specific devices techniques and applications are provided only as examples. Various modifications to the examples described herein will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other examples and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventions. Thus the present inventions are not intended to be limited to the examples described herein and shown but are to be accorded the scope consistent with the claims.

In one aspect and example described herein an exemplary search interface displays search results in a visual manner around a central point with the highest ranked result e.g. the best match based on entered search filter criteria positioned at the center and lower ranked results positioned therearound. For example for an inventory of objects which may include hundreds thousands millions or more potential search results filter criteria may be entered by a user which may include text keywords attribute selections and so on to return a result set of objects according to the filter criteria. In one example for searching an inventory of related objects such as automobiles sinks characters personal ads real estate listings and so on the objects may be described with a small set of shared attributes. The attributes may be selected and varied by a user to filter and rank the inventory of objects. The best match to the filter criteria may be displayed centered in a display window and displayed larger than other lower ranked objects.

The interface may further allow a user to navigate the display of search results or result set similar to a map application e.g. having functions such as pan zoom in and out drag page contents etc. to navigate the display of results . The interface may display the results in a non paginated manner e.g. the user may use a map type view to see all or a large set of the search results. The exemplary visual interface described creates both a visual and list view of the inventory centering the display on the most popular or highest ranked object according to the filter criteria e.g. search terms or selected attributes .

Initially and with reference to an exemplary environment in which certain aspects and examples of the user interface apparatus and methods described may operate. Generally one or more clients may access a server which includes logic for causing the display of a search interface as described. Server and clients may include any one of various types of computer devices having e.g. a processing unit a memory which may include logic or software for carrying out some or all of the functions described herein and a communication interface as well as other conventional computer components e.g. input device such as a keyboard keypad and or mouse output device such as display . For example client may include a desktop computer laptop computer mobile device such as a mobile phone web enabled phone smart phone television television set top box and the like.

Clients and server may communicate e.g. using suitable communication interfaces via a network such as the Internet. Clients and server may communicate in part or in whole via wireless or hardwired communications such as Ethernet IEEE 802.11b wireless or the like. Additionally communication between clients and server may include or communicate with various servers such as a mail server mobile server media server and the like.

Server generally includes logic e.g. http web server logic or is programmed to format data accessed from local or remote databases or other sources of data and content for presentation to users of clients preferably in the format described herein. For example server may format data and or access a local or remote database to communicate and cause the display of an interface to clients data related to objects for display within an interface which may include a search interface and display window for displaying objects for example links to additional information and or content related to the objects the additional content and or information itself and the like.

To this end server may utilize various web data interface techniques such as Common Gateway Interface CGI protocol and associated applications or scripts Java servlets i.e. Java applications running on a web server or the like to present information and receive input from clients . The server although described herein in the singular may actually comprise plural computers devices databases associated backends and the like communicating wired and or wireless and cooperating to perform some or all of the functions described herein. Server may further include or communicate with account servers e.g. email servers mobile servers photo servers video servers and the like. For example a displayed tile may be associated with additional content accessible via a server remote to the server associated with the displayed interface.

Further web pages communicated to client may include various text and media objects such as articles documents photos audio files video files and the like. Additionally the content may include selections or links to further content accessible by the interface and associated user device e.g. via Application Programming Interfaces APIs web pages and the like stored or accessed locally or remotely. Content accessible by client via a presented web page within the search result display tiles or accessible via the search result display tiles may conform to any suitable data format including various media formats such e.g. still image e.g. JPEG TIFF video e.g. MPEG AVI Flash or audio e.g. MP3 OGG .

Additionally illustrates an advertisement server which may communicate with server one or more client or combinations thereof. In one example advertisement server operates to associate advertisements with user generated actions e.g. user entered searches or attribute selections . Server may transmit or cause the display of the advertisement data with a displayed interface or web page to client in one example within a header or footer of the displayed page and in another example within a display window of the interface. In other examples advertisement server may send the advertisement data directly to client device based on information from server e.g. based on client activity or client id profile client based on an identification of client or the like.

It should be noted that although the exemplary methods and systems described herein describe use of a separate server and database for performing various functions other embodiments could be implemented by storing the software or programming that operates to cause the described functions on a single device or any combination of multiple devices as a matter of design choice so long as the functionality described herein is performed. Although not depicted in the figures server generally includes such art recognized components as are ordinarily found in server systems including but not limited to processors RAM ROM clocks hardware drivers associated storage and the like see e.g. discussed below . Further the described functions and logic may be included in software hardware firmware or combination thereof.

The search criteria may be entered in a variety of ways e.g. entering text selecting attributes from various fields radio buttons sliders scrubbers drop down menus or the like. For example filter criteria may include a text entry interface for entering search terms. In other examples filter criteria may include various attributes or ratings whereby a user may make selections to filter a set of objects. Filter criteria may vary depending on the inventory or set of objects to be searched e.g. having specific attribute selections related to the objects to be searched. For instance an automobile search may include selectable attributes such as the style of car size of the engine color make and so on as well as a text entry window for user entered text searching.

The results of a user entered search are displayed by search result tiles within display window according to the object s match to the selection within filter criteria . For example the objects are ranked by any suitable ranking or scoring technique to determine a top down relevancy order for the search results based on the filter criteria. At least a portion of the search results are then displayed as search result tiles according to the relevancy order with the best or highest ranked search result tile displayed centered and or larger than other search results within display window . For example a best match search result shown here as 1 is displayed centered and larger than other displayed results note the reference numbers 1 2 etc. in this example refer to the relative sizes of the tiles corresponding to the search results but not necessarily the relative rankings of the search results for example the four tiles indicated as 2 may have the same or different rankings . Additionally surrounding search result tiles are displayed in progressively smaller display sizes generally concentrically around the best match. In some examples the surrounding search results may further be shaded or have a different level of opacity than the centered object which may vary with distance from the centered object.

In one example the search result tiles are displayed from the center outward following a concentric circle radius pattern based on their match. For example to the immediate left and right of the 1 search result tile 2 and 3 search result sizes are displayed followed by search result sizes 4 5 and 6 becoming smaller with distance from the 1 search result tile . In some examples the search results for a particular display number size have the same score or ranking based on the search criteria in other examples however the search results for a particular display number size e.g. displayed in 2 need not have received the same score. In yet other examples the relative size of each search result is displayed according to its ranking and score with the potential that all displayed search results are of different sizes. For example depending on the particular search criteria and set of objects being searched the ranking may be a continuum from a best match to a worst match. Accordingly the display of search result tiles around the best match may vary in size accordingly or be stepped as shown.

In one example each search result tile is displayed as a rectangular shaped tile but other tile shapes such as circular oval irregular shapes combinations thereof etc. are possible and contemplated. Additionally the display of search result tiles may partially overlap other search results e.g. a higher ranking search result tile partially overlapping a relatively lower ranked search result tile.

In one example each displayed search result tile includes an image and or text associated with the object and is selectable by a user to access additional content or information. The additional content or information may be displayed in the viewing space of the particular search result tile in another portion of interface or in a new window. For example upon hovering and or clicking a search result tile additional information associated with the object is displayed within the display space of a search result tile . Additionally the additional information may further provide access or a link to the additional information which may open or launch a new window or application to access the additional information.

In one example search result tiles have three exemplary presentation states 1 available 2 at state and 3 expanded state. The at state may include an image and or text of the search result and the available state may include an altered image and or text of the object e.g. made opaque relative to the at state of the image. Rolling or hovering over an available state display e.g. via mouse or keyboard command switches the display of the search result object to the at state and in one example switches a previous display from the at state to the available state . In one example the at state is visually differentiated from the available state however the size shape and placement may be identical to that of the available state.

Further hovering over the at state display for a predetermined amount of time e.g. for two seconds or selecting the at state e.g. by clicking thereon switches the display to the expanded state. In one example the expanded state enlarges the selected search result tile to display additional information. For example the additional information may include a larger or additional image or content additional text ability to close the expanded state links to view additional information or content compare to other objects view popularity index and the like. The expanded state may shift the presentation so as to make the entirety of the expanded state visible. The expanded state may be identical in size and structure for every search result object regardless of size of the search result in display window .

It will be recognized that additional display states may be used and some display states described may be omitted for example an interface may merely display an at state and expanded state or an available state and expanded state. Further other display states or animations may be used and associated with each displayed search result . Accordingly an interface may vary the number of display states depending e.g. on user preferences selections device capabilities and the like.

As described search result tiles may be associated with different types of content such as articles photos videos audio files advertisements combinations thereof and any other content suitably displayed or accessed via a webpage. The initial display state and active display states of search result tiles as well as the information or content associated therewith may vary for each type of content.

In one example the display of search result tiles shown in display window are navigated by positioning a pointer e.g. an arrow hand or other graphic associated with a user device over a desired search result tile and selecting e.g. by clicking a mouse. It will be recognized that other methods e.g. via keystrokes or other suitable input devices may be used to highlight or select one of the displayed search result tiles . A user may therefore engage and select different displayed search result tiles to view previews and content associated therewith.

Display window may be navigated in a variety of ways. In one example a user utilizes global map position window to determine which portion of the search results are displayed as indicated by the outline displayed therewith. For example a user may use a mouse keystrokes or other input methods to move the outline within global map position window to display different portions of the search results in display window . Further in one example display window may include navigation arrows which may be selected by a pointer to move in the direction indicated for example clicking on the far right navigation arrow moves the map in to the right within the global map of search results. Other methods for re centering or moving within the search results are possible and contemplated including clicking and dragging with a mouse key strokes and the like.

It will be recognized that a server system may store and cause the display of the described interface filter criteria and search results in a variety of fashions using well known methods and systems. For example a server system and or associated database may store or access necessary data and files for causing the display of each of the described search results and associated information. A set of search result tiles with or without accompanying additional information may be communicated to a user in response to entered filter criteria. Further the server may store or access the content for generating the search result tiles additional information as well as any desired applications scripts which could be downloaded to the client for causing described functions or effects if included.

In one example interface whether as a stand alone interface or an element of a larger interface or web browser page may be accessible by a user via an online account such as an email account. For example a user may login to an account server and interface may be included in a home page or otherwise displayed in response to a user login. In such an example as well as other examples interface may be customizable e.g. in terms of the appearance of the array of the search criteria entry pane the global map navigation map display window and so on. Further interface or portions thereof may include or be part of one or more widgets. In these and other fashions an individual user may access interface from multiple client devices for example interface may be served from a computer server to a user accessing the server from various devices such as a personal computer work computer mobile computer device such as a phone and the like. In other examples of course interface may be included as an application program running on a computer device. Furthermore interface may further include or be associated with various other elements such as a page header page footer advertisement and the like.

In this example the filter criteria include options for selecting an attribute and a type of object in this instance a character attribute and character type . For instance characters within a set of characters may be rated or associated with various attributes such as intelligence speed energy strength durability fighting skills and so on. In this example the ratings are numerical from 0 to 7 with 0 being the lowest or not available and 7 being the highest possible. Users may use the attribute scrubber to adjust each attribute from 0 to 7 within the filter criteria . Of course in other examples a user may select attributes in various other ways including typing in attributes selecting radio buttons and so on. Additionally in this example each attribute filter may be turned on or off. When turned on each filter may return only those characters with an exact rating match e.g. if intelligence 4 than only characters with intelligence 4 will be considered and displayed . In other examples when turned on each criteria filter may return only those search results in this instance characters that equal or exceed the rating match.

In one example the objects or characters may be categorized or grouped into various types of characters. For example characters may be typed according to the criteria such as hero villain user generated and so on. A character may be tagged to all criteria types or to none of them. In this example checking an individual criterion will create an and search from the character inventory. Checking Select All will check all boxes and display all characters in the inventory according to the attributes selected and possibly name entered. Checking Select All a second time will uncheck all Select Type check boxes including the Select All check box.

Filter criteria further includes a text box for inputting a character name which may include an auto complete feature populated e.g. with available characters and popular nicknames. Additionally a text box included with filter criteria for inputting search terms may also be included which can be matched to search results based on tags additional information regarding the search results or the like .

Filter criteria further includes a View Characters button that is clicked to display the characters according to the selected filter criteria and or to refresh the displayed characters. In other examples the displayed characters may be updated in real time as a user selects various attributes types and so on.

The filter criteria may be opened and closed by selecting the tab Select Character. The tab allows the filter criteria to be open or closed hidden from view . Initial rendering of interface may default to the filter criteria open and subsequent renderings default with the filter criteria closed.

User interface further includes a map view that controls the presentation of the results set in display window . The outline corresponds to the presentation of information in the results displayed in display window . In one example outline remains in a fixed position while the background is clickable and draggable by a user. When a position of the map view is selected e.g. clicked on outside of the outline the selected position is centered within outline and the displayed search results set shifts correspondingly for display with display window . When the mouse button is clicked and held a user may drag the results set within map view across the outline effectively changing the results set displayed in display window in real time. Additionally a zoom scrubber may be included allowing more or fewer results to be viewed in the map view and or in the results set in display window . Scrubber may default to the middle of the presentation options. Sufficiently small results sets around 20 or fewer search results for example may not benefit from scrubber because all results will be displayed within rectangle and or display window however scrubber may still function.

Character tiles are displayed in display window according to the filter criteria from the center outward following a concentric circle radius pattern based on an algorithm. In one example a popularity algorithm is used determined based on search buzz user activity and user generated tagging of course any scoring or ranking mechanism may be used . In one example display window defaults to the most popular character centered in the at state e.g. highlighted .

Character tiles generally cascade in size from largest being most popular to smallest being least popular. In one example a dynamic sizing ratio may calculate dimensions based on area the display of search results may be portrait or landscape and the search results scaling down so that the smallest least popular search results in the results set at 0.15 of the largest most popular search result thereby creating a visual sizing relationship wherein the higher ranked scored characters are larger and more central than others.

In instances where the search results exceed the space available within display window based on the display size of the objects map view may be used to pan and or zoom to view the objects. Additionally navigation arrows e.g. arrows of may be included.

In one example the search results may have three presentation states 1 available 2 at state and 3 expanded state. In one example at state may include an image of the character the available state may include an altered image of the character e.g. made opaque relative to the at state of the image. Rolling or hovering over an available state display e.g. via mouse or keyboard command switches the display of the character to the at state and in one example switches a previous display from the at state to the available state . In one example the at state is visually differentiated from the available state however the size shape and placement is identical to that of the available state.

Further hovering over the at state display for a predetermined amount of time e.g. for two seconds or selecting the at state e.g. by clicking thereon switches the display to the expanded state. In one example the expanded state enlarges the selected character tile to display additional information. For example the additional information may include a larger or additional image character name ability to close expanded state links to view character details compare to other characters see complete character s lineage view popularity index and the like. The expanded state may shift the presentation so as to make the entirety of the expanded state visible. The expanded state may be identical in size and structure for every character regardless of size of the character size in display window .

In yet other examples character names may be used within the same or similarly shaped tiles as shown in . For instance the logic for displaying and sizing the search results may be the same or similar as that for the search results displaying text associated with the result. The result may create a tag cloud size dimension attribution where the larger the shape the larger the character name text and visa versa.

The method further includes causing the display of the objects or search results at e.g. within a display window of the interface according to entered filter criteria. In one example the objects are ranked or scored based on filter criteria with the highest ranked object centered in the display with at least a portion of the remaining objects positioned around the highest ranked object. Further other characteristics of the displayed objects such as the size shape color opacity etc. may vary with the respective ranking. Further the display of the objects at may be navigated in a map type application e.g. moving in various directions to view objects as described with respect to B and A C.

The displayed objects may further be selectable by a user to display additional information associated with the object. Accordingly the method further includes causing the display of additional information at e.g. in response to a user selection of the object. A user selection may take various forms including hovering a cursor over the object clicking on an object and so on and different information may be displayed in response to hovering versus clicking on an object . The method may include causing a new window or application to be opened in response to a user selection of the object. Further selecting an object may display additional information including a link to additional content which may be opened in a new window containing the additional content. Additionally a selection may cause the client device to launch an application program such as a media player to display an audio or video file associated with the object. In other examples the browser page may link to the additional information of the display.

Computing system can also include a main memory for example random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computing system may likewise include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

The computing system may also include information storage mechanism which may include for example a media drive and a removable storage interface . The media drive may include a drive or other mechanism to support fixed or removable storage media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a CD or DVD drive R or RW or other removable or fixed media drive. Storage media may include for example a hard disk floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk CD or DVD or other fixed or removable medium that is read by and written to by media drive . As these examples illustrate the storage media may include a computer readable storage medium having stored therein particular computer software or data.

In alternative embodiments information storage mechanism may include other similar instrumentalities for allowing computer programs or other instructions or data to be loaded into computing system . Such instrumentalities may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface such as a program cartridge and cartridge interface a removable memory for example a flash memory or other removable memory module and memory slot and other removable storage units and interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computing system .

Computing system can also include a communications interface . Communications interface can be used to allow software and data to be transferred between computing system and external devices. Examples of communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet or other NIC card a communications port such as for example a USB port a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a channel . This channel may carry signals and may be implemented using a wireless medium wire or cable fiber optics or other communications medium. Some examples of a channel include a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link a network interface a local or wide area network and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program product and computer readable medium may be used generally to refer to media such as for example memory storage device or storage unit . These and other forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. Such instructions generally referred to as computer program code which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings when executed enable the computing system to perform features or functions of embodiments of the present invention.

In an embodiment where the elements are implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer readable medium and loaded into computing system using for example removable storage drive drive or communications interface . The control logic in this example software instructions or computer program code when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

It will be appreciated that for clarity purposes the above description has described embodiments of the invention with reference to different functional units and processors. However it will be apparent that any suitable distribution of functionality between different functional units processors or domains may be used without detracting from the invention. For example functionality illustrated to be performed by separate processors or controllers may be performed by the same processor or controller. Hence references to specific functional units are only to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organization.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with some embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein. Rather the scope of the present invention is limited only by the claims. Additionally although a feature may appear to be described in connection with particular embodiments one skilled in the art would recognize that various features of the described embodiments may be combined in accordance with the invention. Moreover aspects of the invention describe in connection with an embodiment may stand alone as an invention.

Furthermore although individually listed a plurality of means elements or method steps may be implemented by for example a single unit or processor. Additionally although individual features may be included in different claims these may possibly be advantageously combined and the inclusion in different claims does not imply that a combination of features is not feasible and or advantageous. Also the inclusion of a feature in one category of claims does not imply a limitation to this category but rather the feature may be equally applicable to other claim categories as appropriate.

Moreover it will be appreciated that various modifications and alterations may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but is to be defined according to the claims.

