---

title: Navigation device and method for conserving power
abstract: A method and device are disclosed for navigation. In at least one embodiment, the method includes determining, in a navigation device, at least one of, when an instruction for travel along a route of travel is not due to be output for a distance exceeding a distance threshold, and when no instruction for travel along the travel route is output for a period of time exceeding a time threshold; and placing the navigation device in a power conserving mode upon the determination being made. In at least one embodiment, the navigation device includes a processor to determine at least one of, when an instruction for travel along a route of travel is not due to be output for a distance exceeding a distance threshold, and when no instruction for travel along the travel route is output for a period of time exceeding a time threshold, the processor placing the navigation device in a power conserving mode upon the determination being made.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08498804&OS=08498804&RS=08498804
owner: Tomtom International B.V.
number: 08498804
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20071010
---
The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present application. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EARLY INSTRUCTION OUTPUT application Ser. No. 11 907 229 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING AND USING PROFILES application Ser. No. 11 907 230 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ENHANCED MAP DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 231 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD RELATING TO AN AUDIBLE RECOGNITION MODE application Ser. No. 11 907 232 filed on even date herewith NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING POINTS OF INTEREST application Ser. No. 11 907 233 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR FUEL PRICING DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 234 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR INFORMATIONAL SCREEN DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 235 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DEALING WITH LIMITED ACCESS ROADS application Ser. No. 11 907 243 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR TRAVEL WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 244 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DRIVING BREAK WARNING application Ser. No. 11 907 227 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ISSUING WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 242 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAY OF POSITION IN TEXT READIBLE FORM application Ser. No. 11 907 241 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EMERGENCY SERVICE ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 228 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING REGIONAL TRAVEL INFORMATION IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 240 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING SPECIAL CHARACTERS IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 239 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A PERSONAL AREA NETWORK application Ser. No. 11 907 238 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A LOCATION MESSAGE application Ser. No. 11 907 237 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL application Ser. No. 11 907 253 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL RESOURCE application Ser. No. 11 907 252 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR QUICK OPTION ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 251 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAYING A RICH CONTENT DOCUMENT application Ser. No. 11 907 257 filed on even date herewith.

The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e on each of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 879 523 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 549 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 553 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 577 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 599 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 529 filed Jan. 10 2007 and 60 879 604 filed Jan. 10 2007 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Navigation devices were traditionally utilized mainly in the areas of vehicle use such as on cars motorcycles trucks boats etc. Alternatively if such navigation devices were portable they were further transferable between vehicles and or useable outside the vehicle for foot travel for example.

These devices are typically tailored to produce a route of travel based upon an initial position of the navigation device and a selected input travel destination end position noting that the initial position could be entered into the device but is traditionally calculated via GPS Positioning from a GPS receiver within the navigation device.

The inventors discovered that although such navigation devices are connectable to a car charger during use many people tend to use these devices even within a vehicle without such a power connection relying on an internal battery to power the navigation device. Further as many navigation devices are portable such devices being used for walking navigation include no external power source and must rely on internal battery power. The inventors of the present application have further discovered that since such devices are touted as being portable there are conflicting interests between increasing battery size and thus battery power and increasing overall weight of the portable navigation device which tends to occur when battery size is increased.

Thus the inventors of the present application have developed a method to conserve battery power during use of the navigation device thereby increasing battery life without increasing size weight of the battery.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes determining in a navigation device at least one of 

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes a processor to determine at least one of 

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referencing the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are hereafter described. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Formerly known as NAVSTAR the GPS incorporates a plurality of satellites which work with the earth in extremely precise orbits. Based on these precise orbits GPS satellites can relay their location to any number of receiving units.

The GPS system is implemented when a device specially equipped to receive GPS data begins scanning radio frequencies for GPS satellite signals. Upon receiving a radio signal from a GPS satellite the device determines the precise location of that satellite via one of a plurality of different conventional methods. The device will continue scanning in most instances for signals until it has acquired at least three different satellite signals noting that position is not normally but can be determined with only two signals using other triangulation techniques . Implementing geometric triangulation the receiver utilizes the three known positions to determine its own two dimensional position relative to the satellites. This can be done in a known manner. Additionally acquiring a fourth satellite signal will allow the receiving device to calculate its three dimensional position by the same geometrical calculation in a known manner. The position and velocity data can be updated in real time on a continuous basis by an unlimited number of users.

As shown in the GPS system is denoted generally by reference numeral . A plurality of satellites are in orbit about the earth . The orbit of each satellite is not necessarily synchronous with the orbits of other satellites and in fact is likely asynchronous. A GPS receiver usable in embodiments of navigation devices of the present application is shown receiving spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from the various satellites .

The spread spectrum signals continuously transmitted from each satellite utilize a highly accurate frequency standard accomplished with an extremely accurate atomic clock. Each satellite as part of its data signal transmission transmits a data stream indicative of that particular satellite . It is appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art that the GPS receiver device generally acquires spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from at least three satellites for the GPS receiver device to calculate its two dimensional position by triangulation. Acquisition of an additional signal resulting in signals from a total of four satellites permits the GPS receiver device to calculate its three dimensional position in a known manner.

The navigation device is located within a housing not shown . The housing includes a processor connected to an input device and a display screen . The input device can include a keyboard device voice input device touch panel and or any other known input device utilized to input information and the display screen can include any type of display screen such as an LCD display for example. In at least one embodiment of the present application the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device including a touchpad or touchscreen input wherein a user need only touch a portion of the display screen to select one of a plurality of display choices or to activate one of a plurality of virtual buttons.

In addition other types of output devices can also include including but not limited to an audible output device. As output device can produce audible information to a user of the navigation device it is equally understood that input device can also include a microphone and software for receiving input voice commands as well.

In the navigation device processor is operatively connected to and set to receive input information from input device via a connection and operatively connected to at least one of display screen and output device via output connections to output information thereto. Further the processor is operatively connected to memory via connection and is further adapted to receive send information from to input output I O ports via connection wherein the I O port is connectable to an I O device external to the navigation device . The external I O device may include but is not limited to an external listening device such as an earpiece for example. The connection to I O device can further be a wired or wireless connection to any other external device such as a car stereo unit for hands free operation and or for voice activated operation for example for connection to an ear piece or head phones and or for connection to a mobile phone for example wherein the mobile phone connection may be used to establish a data connection between the navigation device and the internet or any other network for example and or to establish a connection to a server via the internet or some other network for example.

The navigation device in at least one embodiment may establish a mobile network connection with the server via a mobile device such as a mobile phone PDA and or any device with mobile phone technology establishing a digital connection such as a digital connection via known Bluetooth technology for example . Thereafter through its network service provider the mobile device can establish a network connection through the internet for example with a server . As such a mobile network connection is established between the navigation device which can be and often times is mobile as it travels alone and or in a vehicle and the server to provide a real time or at least very up to date gateway for information.

The establishing of the network connection between the mobile device via a service provider and another device such as the server using the internet for example can be done in a known manner. This can include use of TCP IP layered protocol for example. The mobile device can utilize any number of communication standards such as CDMA GSM WAN etc.

As such an internet connection may be utilized which is achieved via data connection via a mobile phone or mobile phone technology within the navigation device for example. For this connection an internet connection between the server and the navigation device is established. This can be done for example through a mobile phone or other mobile device and a GPRS General Packet Radio Service connection GPRS connection is a high speed data connection for mobile devices provided by telecom operators GPRS is a method to connect to the internet.

The navigation device can further complete a data connection with the mobile device and eventually with the internet and server via existing Bluetooth technology for example in a known manner wherein the data protocol can utilize any number of standards such as the GSRM the Data Protocol Standard for the GSM standard for example.

The navigation device may include its own mobile phone technology within the navigation device itself including an antenna for example wherein the internal antenna of the navigation device can further alternatively be used . The mobile phone technology within the navigation device can include internal components as specified above and or can include an insertable card complete with necessary mobile phone technology and or an antenna for example. As such mobile phone technology within the navigation device can similarly establish a network connection between the navigation device and the server via the internet for example in a manner similar to that of any mobile device .

For GRPS phone settings the Bluetooth enabled device may be used to correctly work with the ever changing spectrum of mobile phone models manufacturers etc. model manufacturer specific settings may be stored on the navigation device for example. The data stored for this information can be updated in a manner discussed in any of the embodiments previous and subsequent.

Further it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic components shown in are powered by power sources not shown in a conventional manner. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different configurations of the components shown in are considered within the scope of the present application. For example in one embodiment the components shown in may be in communication with one another via wired and or wireless connections and the like. Thus the scope of the navigation device of the present application includes a portable or handheld navigation device .

In addition the portable or handheld navigation device of can be connected or docked in a known manner to a motorized vehicle such as a car or boat for example. Such a navigation device is then removable from the docked location for portable or handheld navigation use.

The server includes in addition to other components which may not be illustrated a processor operatively connected to a memory and further operatively connected via a wired or wireless connection to a mass data storage device . The processor is further operatively connected to transmitter and receiver to transmit and send information to and from navigation device via communications channel . The signals sent and received may include data communication and or other propagated signals. The transmitter and receiver may be selected or designed according to the communications requirement and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation system . Further it should be noted that the functions of transmitter and receiver may be combined into a signal transceiver.

Server is further connected to or includes a mass storage device noting that the mass storage device may be coupled to the server via communication link . The mass storage device contains a store of navigation data and map information and can again be a separate device from the server or can be incorporated into the server .

The navigation device is adapted to communicate with the server through communications channel and includes processor memory etc. as previously described with regard to as well as transmitter and receiver to send and receive signals and or data through the communications channel noting that these devices can further be used to communicate with devices other than server . Further the transmitter and receiver are selected or designed according to communication requirements and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation device and the functions of the transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single transceiver.

Software stored in server memory provides instructions for the processor and allows the server to provide services to the navigation device . One service provided by the server involves processing requests from the navigation device and transmitting navigation data from the mass data storage to the navigation device . According to at least one embodiment of the present application another service provided by the server includes processing the navigation data using various algorithms for a desired application and sending the results of these calculations to the navigation device .

The communication channel generically represents the propagating medium or path that connects the navigation device and the server . According to at least one embodiment of the present application both the server and navigation device include a transmitter for transmitting data through the communication channel and a receiver for receiving data that has been transmitted through the communication channel.

The communication channel is not limited to a particular communication technology. Additionally the communication channel is not limited to a single communication technology that is the channel may include several communication links that use a variety of technology. For example according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can be adapted to provide a path for electrical optical and or electromagnetic communications etc. As such the communication channel includes but is not limited to one or a combination of the following electric circuits electrical conductors such as wires and coaxial cables fiber optic cables converters radio frequency rf waves the atmosphere empty space etc. Furthermore according to at least one various embodiment the communication channel can include intermediate devices such as routers repeaters buffers transmitters and receivers for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application for example the communication channel includes telephone and computer networks. Furthermore in at least one embodiment the communication channel may be capable of accommodating wireless communication such as radio frequency microwave frequency infrared communication etc. Additionally according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can accommodate satellite communication.

The communication signals transmitted through the communication channel include but are not limited to signals as may be required or desired for given communication technology. For example the signals may be adapted to be used in cellular communication technology such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Both digital and analogue signals can be transmitted through the communication channel . According to at least one embodiment these signals may be modulated encrypted and or compressed signals as may be desirable for the communication technology.

The mass data storage includes sufficient memory for the desired navigation applications. Examples of the mass data storage may include magnetic data storage media such as hard drives for example optical storage media such as CD ROMs for example charged data storage media such as flash memory for example molecular memory etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server includes a remote server accessible by the navigation device via a wireless channel. According to at least one other embodiment of the application the server may include a network server located on a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server may include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer and the communication channel may be a cable connected between the personal computer and the navigation device . Alternatively a personal computer may be connected between the navigation device and the server to establish an internet connection between the server and the navigation device . Alternatively a mobile telephone or other handheld device may establish a wireless connection to the internet for connecting the navigation device to the server via the internet.

The navigation device may be provided with information from the server via information downloads which may be periodically updated upon a user connecting navigation device to the server and or may be more dynamic upon a more constant or frequent connection being made between the server and navigation device via a wireless mobile connection device and TCP IP connection for example. For many dynamic calculations the processor in the server may be used to handle the bulk of the processing needs however processor of navigation device can also handle much processing and calculation oftentimes independent of a connection to a server .

The mass storage device connected to the server can include volumes more cartographic and route data than that which is able to be maintained on the navigation device itself including maps etc. The server may process for example the majority of the devices of a navigation device which travel along the route using a set of processing algorithms. Further the cartographic and route data stored in memory can operate on signals e.g. GPS signals originally received by the navigation device .

As indicated above in of the application a navigation device of an embodiment of the present application includes a processor an input device and a display screen . In at least one embodiment the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device to enable both input of information via direct input menu selection etc. and display of information through a touch panel screen for example. Such a screen may be a touch input LCD screen for example as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further the navigation device can also include any additional input device and or any additional output device such as audio input output devices for example.

The navigation device may sit on an arm which itself may be secured to a vehicle dashboard window etc. using a large suction cup . This arm is one example of a docking station to which the navigation device can be docked.

As shown in the navigation device can be docked or otherwise connected to an arm of the docking station by snap connecting the navigation device to the arm for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for connection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application . The navigation device may then be rotatable on the arm as shown by the arrow of . To release the connection between the navigation device and the docking station a button on the navigation device may be pressed for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for disconnection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application .

An embodiment of the present application is directed to a method including determining in a navigation device at least one of 

when an instruction for travel along a route of travel is not due to be output for a distance exceeding a distance threshold and

when no instruction for travel along the travel route is output for a period of time exceeding a time threshold and

In at least one other embodiment the present application is directed to a navigation device including a processor to determine at least one of when an instruction for travel along the route of travel is not due to be output for a distance exceeding a distance threshold and when no instruction for travel along the travel route is output for a period of time exceeding a time threshold the processor placing the navigation device in a power conserving mode upon the determination being made.

All of the aforementioned components of A and B of the navigation device can be powered by either an internal power source such as a battery for example or via connection to an external power source for example a vehicle battery a home outlet etc. . This external connection can be a direct cable or other connection between the navigation device and a vehicle outlet for providing power from the vehicle battery and or can be a cable or other connection between the docking station and the vehicle outlet with the docking station being connected to the navigation device as shown in for example.

Upon the navigation device being connected to the vehicle battery no real power problems exist as long as the vehicle is running the vehicle battery recharges itself while the vehicle is running and thus the navigation device is constantly supplied with power . However if the vehicle is stopped or if the components of for example of the navigation device are otherwise running off the internal battery of the navigation device if the navigation device is not connected to the vehicle battery while in the vehicle if the navigation device is being used in a hand held mode for walking navigation and or for its other functions such as an MP3 player for example etc. the relatively small internal battery can have its power used up quickly. Such an internal battery can last for example about two hours in normal use and it is estimated that it will last about three hours based upon the power saving of embodiments of the present application.

For example although a connection to a vehicle outlet can be made while the navigation device is in the vehicle the outlets are often used for other devices and or the connection between the navigation device or docking station and the outlet of the vehicle can involve cables hanging in the user s view or across the steering wheel of the vehicle and thus for whatever reason a connection between the navigation device or docking station and the outlet of the vehicle is often not made. Accordingly in many instances the navigation device operates off of its internal battery power even when used in a vehicle. Thus the inventors of the present application have designed ways to conserve battery power. However the power conserving can be achieved irrespective of whether the navigation device is operating off of internal battery power or external vehicle battery power the effects of the power conservation may just be greater if the navigation device is operating off internal battery power.

As shown in in step S a processor of the navigation device may initially determine whether or not the navigation device is ON. This determination can include a determination of whether or not the navigation device is operating off of internal battery power. For example the external battery may send a signal to processor to enable a determination of whether internal or external battery power is being used the USB power may send a signal to a processor which translates it into a gpio pin which is then usable by the processor to determine the power source . However irrespective of whether or not this determination is made the process steps of can still continue as the power conserving steps can be achieved irrespective of whether the navigation device is operating off of internal battery power or external vehicle battery power the effects of the power conservation may just be more easily recognizable if the navigation device is operating off internal battery power. If not the process proceeds back to repeat step S and if so the process moves to step S.

Thereafter it is determined by the processor for example whether or not a travel route has been calculated. A travel route is typically determined in a known manner based upon an input destination location of a desired destination of a user for example and a GPS signal received in the GPS receiver of the navigation device indicating a current location of the navigation device . Once the travel destination has been input into the navigation device either audibly or via an integrated input and display device for example a processor of the navigation device can then determine or calculate a route of travel in a known manner based upon map information stored in the memory of the navigation device the input travel destination and a current location of the navigation device.

Once a route of travel has been calculated in step S the process proceeds to step S where it is determined by processor for example whether or not an instruction for travel along the route of travel is not due to be output for a distance exceeding a distance threshold x distance . Thus for example a threshold can be established by the processor in the navigation device wherein if an instruction for making a turn during travel along the route for entering the highway etc. is not due to be output for more than for example 10 kilometers or any set threshold distance then the navigation device can be placed in a power conserving mode by processor for example as shown in step S.

If an instruction is due to be output the navigation device remains in a normal power operating mode and proceeds to step S where it is determined by processor for example whether or not no instruction for travel was output for a period of time exceeding a set time threshold. In other words has X period of time passed since the last instruction was output. Again this threshold may be any set threshold and can be for example one minute. If such a period of time has passed then a navigation device may be placed in a power conserving mode by processor for example in step S. If not the system may proceed back to repeat step S.

Regarding steps S and S these steps can be determined in any order. Thus the determination made in step S can be made before the determination in step S and vice versa as neither is dependent upon the other.

Placing the navigation device in a power conserving mode as placed in step S may be done in a number of different ways which conserve use of power in the navigation device . For example the placing of the navigation device in a power conserving mode can include at least one of relatively dimming a backlight of an integrated input and display device of the navigation device . Further the at least relatively dimming can include turning the backlight off to conserve power. Either of these can be done for example by the processor controlling the supply of power from an internal battery of the navigation device to a backlight of the integrated input and display device for supplying light to a screen from behind the screen. In addition or alternatively other types of power conserving can also be included including but not limited to turning off an sd controller turning down CPU speed etc.

In another alternative embodiment of the present application the user can initially be displayed a screen on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device for example or otherwise prompted to select a conserving mode or battery saving preference as shown in of the present application. One such preference can be to never turn the screen off one such preference can be to turn off the screen unless a next instruction is near via the aforementioned distance threshold or time threshold for example or to always turn the screen off. In this context turn off screen can mean at least one of at least relatively dimming a backlight of an integrated input and display device of the navigation device and turning the backlight off.

As such the screen of the integrated input and display device of the navigation device will most likely not be totally black it will merely be very dark. Thus under good conditions users will still be able to see that their navigation device is still on and working whereas under normal conditions the screen will appear to be turned off. Furthermore when the screen s backlight is relatively dimmed or turned off the navigation device may further stop updating the screen thus saving more power. The screen may be updated again as soon as the backlight is turned on or removed from its relatively dim state. The updating of the screen is optional and or can be part of the placing the navigation device in a power conserving mode in step S. Thus the placing of the navigation device in the power conserving mode may include at least one of pausing and temporarily ceasing an update of a display of an integrated input and display device of the navigation device.

As stated previously with regard to the navigation device may be placed in a power conserving mode in step S. Thereafter the navigation device may be taken out of the power conserving mode upon other conditions taking place. For example in step S it is determined by the processor for example whether or not a warning such as an emergency warning for example as stated in any one of applications entitled A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DEALING WITH LIMITED ACCESS ROADS application Ser. No. 11 907 243 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR TRAVEL WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 244 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DRIVING BREAK WARNING application Ser. No. 11 907 227 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ISSUING WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 242 filed on even date herewith the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference or an instruction is set to be output to an integrated input and display device of the navigation device wherein the determination of the instruction may be within at least one of a distance less than a second distance threshold and or a time less than a second time threshold for example. If either the warning or instruction is set to be output as determined by the processor in step S then the process moves to step S wherein the navigation device is taken out of the power conserving mode for example by turning the backlight on and or removing the relatively dim state of the backlight for example.

If the answer to the question posed in step S is no the process moves to step S where it is determined by the processor for example whether or not the user contacted the integrated input and display device of the navigation device . For example it may be determined whether or not the user tapped on the screen of the integrated input and display device . If so the navigation device is taken out of the power conserving mode in step S and if not the process moves to step S.

In Step it is determined by the processor for example whether or not an incoming signal was received such as an incoming message signal an incoming phone signal etc. wherein the incoming message signal can be any type of message signal such as a buddy message and 8MS message an email message etc. If so then the navigation device is taken out of the power conserving mode in step S and if not then the process moves back to step S to determine if any of the four determinations noting that two determinations are made in Step S have been met for which the navigation device should be taken out of the power conserving mode in step S.

Regarding steps S S and S and the four determinations made therein these steps can be determined by the processor in any order. Thus the determination made in step S can be made before any of the determinations in steps S and S the determination made in step S can be made before any of the determinations in steps S and S etc. and vice versa as none are dependent upon the other. Further although discussed together in step S the warnings and instructions can also be determined separately by the processor and are only grouped together for the sake of brevity.

As shown in the user may be optionally prompted with preferences regarding setting the navigation device in a power conserving mode. This navigation device may operate so as not to provide the user with such preferences and can merely enter the power conserving mode upon any of the conditions of step S and S of being met for example. However if the user is provided with a preference as shown in and selects the never turn off screen preference then the process of the steps of may be skipped and the navigation device remains in a normal mode. Similarly if the always turn off screen preference is selected the screen may be always turned off during use in a moving map mode namely after a travel route has been calculated. However the system can optionally utilize the steps of S S and S to take the navigation device out of the power conserving mode for at least a short period of time.

Thus as shown in a plurality of selectable power conserving mode options can be displayed to the user wherein the navigation device is placed in the selected mode upon the determination being made. It should be noted that these modes are not limited to those shown in and can include different selectable aspects of power conservation including for example turning the backlight off dimming the backlight of the integrated input and display device etc.

In addition the user may be provided with feedback upon placing the navigation device in a power conserving mode. For example it may be difficult for the user to determine when viewing the navigation device under normal conditions whether the navigation device is in a power conserving mode or whether the navigation device has been turned off. Thus at least one of visual and audible feedback can be provided to the user to let the user know that the navigation device is in a power conserving mode. Such feedback can include at least one of a blinking LED on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device for example a periodically output audible message etc.

Additional parameters can be utilized in determining whether or not to place the navigation device in a power conserving mode. For example once the route of travel is calculated the processor can determine whether or not the route of travel meets a minimum travel distance or time namely whether or not the route of travel exceeds a distance for time threshold such as for example thirty miles or thirty minutes. If not then it is merely determined that this is a short trip wherein the power conserving mode need not be enabled.

Additionally the user may be prompted to save battery power. For example the user may be requested to dim the screen namely relatively dim or turn off the backlight of the integrated input and display device upon a next instruction being more than a certain distance or a certain time away for example five miles or five minutes . Thus the user can select whether or not to enter the power conserving mode. As such the placing in the power conserving mode may only occur upon the determination being made and subsequent to receipt of an indication of a selection by a user to enter the power conserving mode. The selection may be received by the processor for example at least one of before and after the determination is made and subsequent to a prompt.

Implementation of the process shown in can be done by a processor of the navigation device in at least one other embodiment of the present application. For example in at least one embodiment a navigation device can include a processor to determine at least one of 

when an instruction for travel along a route is not due to be output for a distance exceeding a distance threshold and

when no instruction for travel along the travel route is output for a period of time exceeding a time threshold the processor placing the navigation device in a power conserving mode upon the determination being made. Again the processor can merely send the signal to turn off a relatively dim display state of the backlight of the integrated input and display device of the navigation device . Further the processor can monitor the various conditions of step S and S and once placed in a power conserving mode the processor can monitor the various conditions of step S step S and step S of . Thus the processor can control at least one of a relative dimming of the backlights and a turning of the backlight of the integrated input and display device of the navigation device completely off.

Further the navigation device may include an output device to provide feedback to a user of the navigation device upon the processor placing the navigation device in a power conserving mode. The feedback may be at least one of visual and audible including a blinking LED on an integrated input and display device of the navigation device and or outputting via an output device such as the speaker of the navigation device for example an audible message periodically etc.

The methods of at least one embodiment expressed above may be implemented as a computer data signal embodied in the carrier wave or propagated signal that represents a sequence of instructions which when executed by a processor such as processor of server and or processor of navigation device for example causes the processor to perform a respective method. In at least one other embodiment at least one method provided above may be implemented above as a set of instructions contained on a computer readable or computer accessible medium such as one of the memory devices previously described for example to perform the respective method when executed by a processor or other computer device. In varying embodiments the medium may be a magnetic medium electronic medium optical medium etc.

Even further any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable media and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device a device including a processor . Thus the storage medium or computer readable medium is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.

The storage medium may be a built in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built in medium include but are not limited to rewriteable non volatile memories such as ROMs and flash memories and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include but are not limited to optical storage media such as CD ROMs and DVDs magneto optical storage media such as MOs magnetism storage media including but not limited to floppy disks trademark cassette tapes and removable hard disks media with a built in rewriteable non volatile memory including but not limited to memory cards and media with a built in ROM including but not limited to ROM cassettes etc. Furthermore various information regarding stored images for example property information may be stored in any other form or it may be provided in other ways.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading the disclosure the electronic components of the navigation device and or the components of the server can be embodied as computer hardware circuitry or as a computer readable program or as a combination of both.

The system and method of embodiments of the present application include software operative on the processor to perform at least one of the methods according to the teachings of the present application. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions found in the software program. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the various programming languages which may be employed to create a software program designed to implement and perform at least one of the methods of the present application.

The programs can be structured in an object orientation using an object oriented language including but not limited to JAVA Smalltalk C etc. and the programs can be structured in a procedural orientation using a procedural language including but not limited to COBOL C etc. The software components can communicate in any number of ways that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to by application of program interfaces API interprocess communication techniques including but not limited to report procedure call RPC common object request broker architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Distributed System Object Model DSOM and Remote Method Invocation RMI . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present application disclosure the teachings of the present application are not limited to a particular programming language or environment.

The above systems devices and methods have been described by way of example and not by way of limitation with respect to improving accuracy processor speed and ease of user interaction etc. with a navigation device .

Further elements and or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Still further any one of the above described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus method system computer program and computer program product. For example of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device including but not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

