---

title: Cable tensiometer for aircraft
abstract: The invention is a cable tensiometer that can be used on aircraft for real-time, in-flight cable tension measurements. The invention can be used on any aircraft cables with high precision. The invention is extremely light-weight, hangs on the cable being tested and uses a dual bending beam design with a high mill-volt output to determine tension.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07424832&OS=07424832&RS=07424832
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07424832
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070904
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to measuring the tension on cables more particularly to measuring the tension of fixed cables and most particularly to measuring the tension of fixed cables on aircraft.

Many aircraft employ numerous cables to make very sensitive flight related adjustments to operate the aircraft such as to control surfaces etc. Precise measurement of cable tension loads in real time to ensure accurate aircraft operation related to such cables can significantly increase the effectiveness of such cables. Currently available cable tension monitoring devices cannot be employed for this purpose.

Devices for measuring the tension placed on wires and cables known as tensiometers have been used for many years in industries as varied as yarn manufacture to oil well drilling. Many tensiometers are designed so that the cable runs through the device and the tension on the cable as it travels is measured. Such devices are employed to make yarn or in industries that use cables that run through pulley systems to operate machinery. Such tensiometers cannot be employed for measuring tension on cables that are fixed at both ends such as those used on aircraft.

Other tensiometers have been developed to work on such fixed cables but have other inherent problems that would obviate their use on aircraft cables. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 989 450 discloses a hand held cable tensiometer that attaches to two points on a cable. However this cable tensiometer employs a load cell to measure cable tension which would be too large and heavy for operation in a flight environment.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 728 953 and 6 343 515 disclose cable tensiometers that use a bending beam configuration so that the requirement to employ a separate measuring device such as a load cell is not needed. These devices measure the tension in a cable by fixing the cable to the devices which employ a fixed structure and creating an angle in cable. When tension is placed on the cable the angles causes the fixed structure to bend. The bending is measured via small strain gages that are also affixed to the fixed structure to obtain the tension placed on the cable. However the U.S. Pat. No. 6 343 515 patent employs a separate tubular structure to hold the cable and deflection blocks to create the angle in the cable and the U.S. Pat. No. 5 728 953 patent employs a spacer block to create the angle in the cable which increases the weight of the devices to a point where they could not be used in a flight environment. Further the U.S. Pat. No. 6 343 515 patent clamps the cable to the tubular body and the U.S. Pat. No. 5 728 953 clamps the cable to the fixed structure. Such clamping creates significant friction on the cable and dramatically decreases the precision of the devices.

Therefore it is desired to provide a cable tension measurement device for fixed cables that is precise repeatable and can operate in an aircraft flight environment.

The invention proposed herein comprises a cable tensiometer that can be used in flight to determine tension on aircraft cables with high precision. The invention hangs on a cable being tested and uses a dual bending beam design to determine tension.

Accordingly it is an object of this invention to provide a cable tensiometer capable of use in aircraft flight.

It is a further object of this invention to provide a cable tensiometer that positively captures and secures the cable being tested.

It is yet a further object of this invention to provide a cable tensiometer that minimizes friction on the cable being tested so as to maximize precision.

This invention meets these and other objectives related to an improved cable tensiometer by providing a cable tension measuring device comprising a beam structure that has first second and third extensions extending from the beam structure. The second extension is located between the first and third extension and equidistant from each. Two pulleys are rotatably attached to the first and third extensions. The pulleys are designed to have an inner surface to accept a cable. Each of the first and third extensions have an opening through them located under the pulleys and across the extensions along the beam structure so that the cable can be inserted on the lower inner surface of each pulley and the pulleys may still rotate. The second extension has a slot located at its apex comprising a width sufficient to accept the cable. After the cable is inserted through the pulleys and placed in the slot a guard is fastened across the slot to keep the cable in place. After the cable has been inserted through the pulleys and placed into the slot an angle is formed between the cable and a line parallel to the beam structure to provide for bending of the beam structure when tension is placed on the cable. Finally at least two gages are located on the beam structure capable of determining beam structure bending between the first and second extensions and between the second and third extensions.

The present invention has been designed to provide a real time tension measuring device for in fight use on aircraft cables. For aircraft being currently developed tension measurements must be precise to within 2 percent full scale FS and repeatable within 0.5 percent FS. The device must also be light weight in order to minimize cable control surface coupling and must also meet low end flight environmental testing requirements.

In order to meet these requirements the invention is designed as a dual bending beam tensiometer that employs pulleys to minimize cable friction and uses the physical design to create the cable angle rather than spacer blocks or similar extraneous components in order to reduce the device weight.

In general the invention is a cable tensiometer comprising a beam structure with three extensions extending from the beam structure. The middle extension is equidistant from the outer extensions and is located in the center of the beam structure. Preferably the outer extensions are located at the ends of the beam structure. The outer extensions have rotatable pulleys mounted near the top of the extensions in a manner so that a cable may be inserted on the bottom inner surface of the pulleys. The middle extension has a slot at its apex that can accept a cable within the slot. When the cable is threaded through the device it is placed on the bottom inner surface of each pulley and in the slot so that it extends over the beam structure. The slot of the middle extension comprises a height that is higher than the bottom inner surface of the pulleys. When the cable is placed in the device this creates an angle in the cable. Therefore when tension is applied to the cable the beam structure bends. Due to the middle extension being centered on the beam structure and the outer extensions being equidistant from the middle extension bending between each of the outer extensions and the middle extension on the beam structure is equal. One or more gages preferably coupled half bridge strain gages on each of the upper and lower surfaces of the beam structure are attached on each side of the beam structure to measure the bending between each outer extension and the middle extension.

Referring to the invention comprises a beam structure having first second and third extensions extending from the beam structure . Preferably the extensions and the beam structure are fabricated as one piece rather than the extensions being separate and affixed to the beam structure . The second extension is located between the first and third extensions in the center of the beam structure . Preferably the first and third extensions are located at ends of the beam stricture .

The first and third extensions have two pulleys rotatably attached thereto. The pulleys have an inner surface wherein a cable may be placed. Openings are formed in first and third extensions for pulley rotation so that the pulleys may rotate when the cable is placed on the bottom side of the inner surface .

A slot is located at the top apex of the second extension . The slot is capable of accepting the cable . The slot and therefore the top apex of the second extension has a height that is greater than the bottom inner surface of the pulleys . Thus when the cable is threaded through the device and is placed in the slot and on the inner surface at the bottom of the pulleys the cable forms an angle with respect to the beam structure as depicted by an imaginary line drawn between the inner surface of the bottom of the pulleys .

After the cable is placed in the slot a guard is placed over the cable to prevent the device from moving along the cable during operation.

At least one strain gage is placed on the beam structure between both the first and second extensions and the second and third extensions . Preferably at least one pair of coupled half bridge strain gages are placed on the upper and lower surfaces of the beam structure opposite each other. Each half bridge strain gage is wired to the corresponding half bridge strain gage on the opposite side comprising a full bridge such that the gages are capable of measuring bending of the beam structure between each of the extensions . Due to the design of the present invention the tension on the cable measured by each full bridge of strain gages should be equivalent within precision error of the device to provide redundant tension measurements.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention holes are formed through the first and third extensions to allow the device to be tethered in place on the cable to further prevent movement of the device along the cable or to secure instrumentation wiring to the device. An additional threaded hole may be formed through extension to provide for further securing instrumentation wiring if desired.

The dimensions and material construction of the beam structure and extensions should be selected to provide the maximum deflection bending of the beam structure from cable tension but also provide strength sufficient to ensure physical integrity of the device. The preferred material to construct the beam structure and extensions is aluminum with the most preferred material comprising 2024 T3 aluminum. The preferred length of the beam structure is between 3 and 10 inches depending upon the pulley diameter and the maximum cable load. The preferred width of the beam structure based on these same design parameters is between 0.25 and 1.5 inches. The thickness of the beam structure is preferably between 0.02 and 0.5 inches and in one embodiment of the invention the top portion of the beam structure is parallel to the bottom of the beam structure on in the center portion of the beam structure between the extensions. However in this embodiment the top portion from the flat middle parallel area curves upwards toward the extensions . In this configuration the thickness of the beam structure will be minimized at the center point between the first and second extensions and the second and third extensions . This configuration allows for greater beam structure flexibility to increase deflection.

The first and third extensions are preferably between 1.5 to 8 inches high so that the lower portion of the inner surface of the pulleys are at a height between 0.8 and 5 inches. These heights are dependant upon the pulley diameter and the desired cable angle .

The preferred diameter of the pulleys ranges between 0.5 and 5 inches depending upon the cable diameter and cable radius desired around the pulley . The cable preferred diameter is up to about 0.5 inches and the preferred cable angle is from about 2 degrees to about 8 degrees with a most preferred cable angle being about 5 degrees.

The pulleys preferably low friction stainless steel ball bearing pulley are provided to reduce or virtually eliminate friction on the cable when placed under tension. Therefore they should be fastened to the first and third extensions using solid clevis pins with tight tolerances and cotter keys or hitch pins to secure the clevis pins or other methods known in the art. The pulley material should also be selected to be a corrosion resistant material such as stainless steel.

The strain gages should be light weight and high precision and may be selected by one skilled in the art. Examples of strain gages that may be employed in the present invention include foil resistive type or Fiber Bragg Grating sensors.

The operation of the invention will now be described. A cable is threaded through the device so that the cable rests against the lower inner surface of the pulleys and over the second extension in the slot. The guard is fastened over the slot to hold the cable in place so the device does not move along the cable. As forces cause tension along the cable the angle of the cable causes the cable to be pulled from each pulley so that the beam structure bends see . The strain gages placed between the first and second extensions and the second and third extensions measure the amount of bending of the beam structure in these sections. As stated above within degree of error of the device each section of the beam structure should bend the same amount.

where R resultant force F cable tension cable angle between outer pulleys 10 and cable angle from principle direction and center apex .

b width of transducer where measurement is taken and h height or thickness squared where measurement is taken.

where e voltage output N number of active arms GF gage factor strain in inches inch and E excitation voltage.

When the above equations are employed the resultant force on the pulleys and center apex the bending stress the average surface strain and the voltage output of the strain gage full bending bridge may be determined.

What is described are specific examples of many possible variations on the same invention and are not intended in a limiting sense. The claimed invention can be practiced using other variations not specifically described above.

