---

title: Synthesis of nanocrystalline diamond fibers
abstract: Provided herein is a method for the synthesis of nanocrystalline diamond (NCD) wires by depositing nanocrystalline diamond on Si nanowires using chemical vapor deposition methods. Seeding the nanowires in solutions containing nanodiamond powers, NCD wires are fabricated in typical CVD growth conditions within a very short time. NCD wires were 0.5-5 μm in diameter, depending on the growth time, with lengths in the range of 20-100 μm. The average elastic modulus determined by nanoindentation is 474.16±13.48 GPa. The unique mechanical properties of the NCD wire make it a potential material for active components of both electronic and electromechanical devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08404313&OS=08404313&RS=08404313
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08404313
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070322
---
This application is a Non Provisional Application of co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 767 372 filed Mar. 22 2006 which is fully incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. ECS 0404137 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to the field of nano technology. Specifically the invention relates to the one dimensional growth of nano crystalline diamond fibers for use in the fabrication of high temperature and high power nano electronic devices i.e. biosensors for the electrochemical detection of neurotransmitters.

A nanowire is a wire of dimensions of the order of a nanometer 10meters . Alternatively nanowires can be defined as structures that have a lateral size constrained to tens of nanometers or less and an unconstrained longitudinal size. Examples of different types of nanowires include metallic Ni Pt Au semiconducting and insulating representative materials include but are not limited to InP Si GaN SiO TiO etc.

Typical nanowires exhibit aspect ratios of 1000 or more. As such they are often referred to as 1 Dimensional materials. Nanowires have many interesting properties that are not seen in bulk or 3 D materials since electrons in nanowires are quantum confined laterally and thus occupy energy levels that are different from the traditional continuum of energy levels or bands found in bulk materials. This quantum confinement is exhibited by certain nanowires such as carbon nanotubes which results in discrete values of electrical conductance. There are many applications where nanowires may become important in electronic opto electronic and nanoelectromechanical devices as additives in advanced composites for metallic interconnects in nanoscale quantum devices as field emittors and as leads for biomolecular nanosensors.

Considerable interest has been focused on carbon nanotubes CNTs and carbon nanofibers CNFs due to their remarkable structural electrical and mechanical properties. CNFs are grown from the decomposition of carbon containing gases over metal or alloy surfaces such as a nanowire which act as catalysts to the sheets formation. During the reaction the carbon containing gas molecules are adsorbed to certain faces of the catalyst s surface and are subsequently decomposed. Following this the carbon atoms diffuse through the catalyst particle and precipitate and form successive sheets that stack on one another to form the carbon nanofibers.

Nanocrystalline diamond exhibits high hardness exceptional thermal conductivity chemical inertness biocompatibility and negative electron affinity. These unique properties make NCD a promising candidate for use as a protective coating with excellent tribological properties a functional platform for biosensors and structural material for micro electro mechanical systems MEMS . Particularly diamond electrodes have attracted considerable interest in recent years due to their superb electrical thermal and electrochemical properties. However until now most of the diamond related work is based on a two dimensional form of NCD in other words a thin film that is deposited on Si substrate. The question is if we can grow diamond wire just like other semiconductor wires such as Si and ZnO nanowires.

Diamond film has been deposited on metal wires such as Pt or W for electrochemical biological and thermal applications. However the diameter of these diamond coated wires is in the order of hundreds of microns which significantly limits the sensitivity and selectivity of these electrodes.

Here the inventors provide a method for the synthesis of one dimensional nanocrystalline diamond fibers. These nanocrystalline diamond fibers were characterized by scanning electron microscopy SEM visible micro Raman spectroscopy and high resolution transmission electron microscopy HR TEM . The surface morphology of as prepared samples showed that the fibers were 0.3 2 m in diameter and lengths in the order of 20 100 microns respectively. The Raman peaks at 1140 and 1333 cmwere attributed to the nanocrystalline diamond nature of the fibers. The high resolution transmission electron microscopy was performed in order to study the nanostructures of the diamond fibers.

The nanocrystalline diamond fibers have many applications such as in high temperature and high power electronic devices. Further applications exist for biosensors for the electrochemical detection of neurotransmitters.

The inventors synthesized one dimensional nanocrystalline diamond fibers by two step method. In the first step the inventors prepared Si nanowires by using vapor liquid solid VLS mechanism and in next step these wires were used as templates for the growth of nanocrystallitie diamond fibers. Before the deposition silicon oxide nanowires were seeded in a methanol solution which consists of 3 5 nm grain size diamond nanopowders. The nanocrystalline diamond was deposited by microwave decomposition in Ar Hand CRmixture for 20 60 minutes at 700 C. In some embodiments the Argon was used at 75 . Nanocrystalline diamond fibers were characterized by scanning electron microscopy SEM visible micro Raman spectroscopy and high resolution transmission electron microscopy I IR TEM electron energy loss spectroscopy EELS and near edge X ray absorption fine structures NEXAFS .

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

Compared to other nanowires the mechanical strength of NCD wires is several times higher than SiO2 nanowires or gold nanowires. Here the inventors provide for the synthesis of nanocrystalline diamond wires with diameter in the order of several micrometers. Seeding the nanowires in solutions containing nanodiamond powers NCD wires are fabricated in typical CVD growth conditions within a very short time.

In a preferred embodiment one dimensional nanocrystalline diamond fibers were created using nanowires prepared by a vapor liquid solid VLS mechanism and used as templates for the growth of nanocrystalline diamond fibers. These nanocrystalline diamond fibers have prospective applications such as field emitters high temperature and high power electronic devices. Other applications include biosensors such as the electrochemical detection of neurotransmitters thermal heat spreaders electron field emitters electrode for bio sensors detection of neurons tribological applications implant coating applications and high power electronics devices.

The formation of the diamond layer upon the substrate here a nanowire can be accomplished by any manner useful in the deposition of diamond. Examples include but are not limited to Chemical Vapor Deposition CVD Filament Assisted Chemical Vapor Deposition FACVD Plasma Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition and Microwave Plasma Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition MPECVD .

Substrates which can be used in the inventive method include carbide forming materials which can be coated with diamond using conventional techniques such as those described above. Although the preferred embodiment uses SiOnanowires substrates can be comprised of materials selected from the group consisting of silicon glass quartz plastic ceramic metal polymers TiO ZnO ZnS ZnSe ZnTe CdS CdSe CdTe HgS HgSe HgTe MgS MgSe MgTe CaS CaSe CaTe SrS SrSe SrTe BaS BaSe BaTe GaN GaP GaAs GaSb InN InP InAs InSb PbS PbSe PbTe AlS AlP AlSb SiO.sub.1 SiO.sub.2 silicon carbide silicon nitride polyacrylonitrile PAN polyetherketone polyimide an aromatic polymer and an aliphatic polymer. Substrates are preferably substantially homogenous in material but can include hetereostructures in some embodiments.

The term nanowire refers to a nanostructure typically characterized by at least one physical dimension less than about 1000 nm 500 nm 250 nm 150 nm 100 nm 50 nm 25 nm 10 nm or 5 nm. In a preferred embodiment the region or characteristic dimension is along the smallest axis of the structure. Illustrative nanostructures include nanofilaments nanofibers and nanotubes.

Nanowires can be synthesized by a variety of methods. In a preferred embodiment the nanowires are synthesized using a Vapor Liquid Solid VLS mechanism which is known . Examples of the VLS mechanism can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 996 147 to Majumdar et al. and in Xiangfeng Duan and Charles M. Lieber Adv. Matter. 2000 Vol. 12 No. 4 which are incorporated herein by reference.

It should be noted that the invention is not limited to nanowires produced using the VLS mechanism. The VLS mechanism however provides advantages in the production of one dimensional nanostructures including the ability to control the diameter and monodispersity of the nanowire through the use of catalyst substrate particles of well defined sizes the ability to grow the nanowires on a solid support and in a patterned array by manipulating the catalyst particles the ability to generate nanowires with well controlled length and well defined variation in the longitudinal composition and the ability to process semi conductors using a solid phase protocol.

One dimensional nanocrystalline diamond fibers were synthesized by a two step method. In the first step the inventors prepared silicone oxide SiO nanowires by using vapor liquid solid VLS mechanism and in next step these wires were used as templates for the growth of nanocrystalline diamond fibers. Before deposition SiOnanowires were immersed in a methanol solution which consisted of 3 5 nm grain size diamond nanopowders. The nanocrystalline diamond was deposited by microwave decomposition of an Ar Hand CHmixture for 20 60 minutes at 700 C.

The resulting nanocrystalline diamond fibers were characterized by scanning electron microscopy SEM visible micro Raman spectroscopy and high resolution transmission electron microscopy I IR TEM electron energy loss spectroscopy EELS and near edge X ray absorption fine structures NEXAFS . The surface morphology of nanofibers prepared using the inventive method showed that the fibers were 0.3 2 m in diameter and lengths in the order of 20 100 microns respectively. The Raman peaks at 1140 and 1333 cmwere attributed to the nanocrystalline diamond nature of the fibers. The high resolution transmission electron microscopy was performed in order to study the nanostructures of the diamond fibers.

The invention includes a method of synthesizing NCD wires by depositing NCD coatings on conductive nanowires such as Si in typical microwave plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition MPECVD growth conditions. The diameter of the wire is approximately in the range of 1 5 m and the length of the wire is more than 30 m. By reducing the diameter from a couple hundred micrometers to a few micrometers a higher surface to volume ratio is obtained for better biological or electrochemical functionalization. Moreover the diameter of the wire is proportional to the growth time providing a controlled method to fabricate nanocrystalline diamond wires.

In the SEM micrograph shows that the lengths of these nanowires are in the range of several tens to several hundreds of micrometers and the diameters of these wires are approximately several hundreds of nanometers. In an illustrative embodiment the nanowires were composed of silicon nanoparticles as cores and amorphous silicon oxide as shells. The nanowires are randomly oriented and stick to each other in some cases. shows that after 10 min of diamond deposition nanowires are partially coated with a few nanocrystalline diamond supergrains. These supergrains consisting of many nanometer sized crystalline diamond grains have also been observed in the deposition of hybrid structure of ultrananocrystalline diamond UNCD and carbon nanotubes CNTs .

Surprisingly diamond grew much faster on nanowires than it did on flat Si substrate. The nanodiamond seeds left on nanowires are believed to be responsible for such fast growth. It should be addressed that without seeding in the nanodiamond containing solution no growth was observed. Hence these small nanodiamond seeds play an important role in the growth of NCD wires. The nanowires were totally covered with NCD films after 15 minutes of deposition. The diameters of these wires ranged between 1 and 2 m.

It was observed that the diameters of the wires increased to approximately 4 5 m after 30 minutes of deposition. A continuous NCD coating was formed and covered all the nanowires as well as the substrate Si after 1 hour of deposition. Note that in the NCD coating covered not only along the nanowires but also on the tips of the wires.

Two nanowires connected to each other as shown in illustrates the possibility of fabricating complicated NCD wire structures by patterning nanowires. Since diamond can be doped with boron or nitrogen to make it electrically conductive such structures have interesting applications for MEMS fabrication. Moreover with the outstanding mechanical properties of bulk diamond these NCD wires have potential applications in areas that need materials with high strength and stiffness.

Raman analysis was also performed after the nanowires were seeded in nanodiamond solution. Identical spectrum was obtained and no features other than Si peak were observed. After 15 min deposition the Raman spectrum shows typical NCD patterns with a diamond characteristic peak at 1334 cm 1 overlapping with a D band peak at 1340 cm 1 a small hump at 1140 cm 1 and a broad peak centered at 1560 cm 1. The 1140 hump is recently proposed to be attributed to great amount of hydrogen presented in NCD grain boundaries. The broad peak at 1560 cm 1 is the G mode Raman peak which is well known for disordered carbon films and arises from the in plane stretching modes of sp2 bonded carbon at grain boundaries of NCD.

In order to investigate the structure of these NCD wires one small piece of wire was cut from the substrate by focus ion beam FIB and then was transferred to copper grid for TEM analysis. shows a cross section TEM image of one single diamond wire. The diameter of this wire is about 4 m 30 min deposition . The NCD wire contains two regions the core and the shell. Note that in the core region there are three nanowires encapsulated in one diamond shell. As mentioned before some nanowires might stick together after the growth and they were never separated afterwards. During CVD process diamond supergrains grew outside of these wires and then quickly connected to each other and finally covered all these bundled wires together. The quantification analysis in the SiNW core region indicates the atomic percentage of Si is 40 and the atomic percentage of O is 60 suggesting that the nanowires are composed of amorphous silicon oxide. EDS study has been done on three different locations of the wire core interface and shell shown in . In the core region silicon and O peaks were observed at 1.74 and 0.52 keV respectively. In the shell region a dominant C peak at 0.28 keV suggested that the outside shell only consist of carbon. At the interface all three peaks C O and Si are visible. In the core region only Si and O peaks are presented. shows the 1 line profile Si O C map along the cross section of the wire. Similar to EDS results the NCD wire core contains Si and O while the outside shell contains only carbon. The high resolution electron microscopy HREM image shows the interface between the diamond and the Si nanowire . The diamond grains seen here are about 5 8 nm in diameter and the d spacing for the 111 planes in diamond is 0.206 nm

Note that the no clear crystallinity of Si can be observed suggesting the amorphous nature of the nanowires. In the selected area electron diffraction SAED pattern taken at the diamond shell region inset sharp 111 220 and 311 Bragg reflections are visible indicating good crystallinity of NCD.

Nanoindentation tests were carried out using a Triboscope Hysitron Inc. Minneapolis Minn. USA in conjunction with an atomic force microscope AFM NanoScope Dimension 3100 Digital Instruments Veeco Metrology Group Woodbury N.Y. USA . The indenter used for indentation is a conical diamond indenter with an included angle of 60 . During indentation the indenter was first brought into contact with the NCD supergrains shown in . Using the offset functions in AFM the indenter was shift to the top of a NCD supergrain. By gradually shrinking the scanning area and offsetting the scanning center of the indenter the indentation tip was brought to the center of the NCD supergrain. When the scan size was reduced to 500 nm 500 nm a scope scan was done at the middle of the NCD supergrain which gives the surface profile of the NCD supergrain . The curvature of each individual tested NCD supergrain can be obtained from the surface profile by curve fitting. Further reducing the scan size down to 100 nm 100 nm indentation was carried out at the center of the NCD supergrain. A peak force of 50 N was first applied in 5 seconds and then totally released in the same time. A typical indentation load and displacement curve is shown in . As can be seen indentation is a pure elastic one with no hysteresis between the loading and the unloading curve.

For an elastic contact between solids of revolution the relationship between the contact force and displacement can be given by Hertz contact theory 

In order to estimate the elastic modulus using Hertz contact theory Eq. 1 the radius of the indenter tip must be known. To calibrate the tip radius of the conical indenter the conical tip used in the nanoindentation test was used to scan a special SOCS Tip Characterizer Veeco Metrology Group Woodbury N.Y. USA . A schematic of the mechanism of the tip radius calibration is shown in . As can be seen the SOCS Tip Characterizer has a trench with very sharp edges. When the blunt conical tip scans across the sharp edge it cannot capture the real feature of the much sharper edge while instead the scope profile of the scanning gives the curvature of the conical tip see . By curve fitting of the scope profiles of both 0 and 90 degree scannings of the conical tip against the sharp edge the average tip radius of the conical tip used in this study is determined to be 157.88 23.13 nm.

An excellent fitting of Hertz contact theory with the P h3 2 plot of the real indentation curve is shown in . Using the slope of the linear P h3 2 plot the tip radius of the conical indenter the curvature of the NCD nanograins and a Poisson s ratio of 0.07 for diamond the elastic modulus of NCD supergrain can be obtained using Eqs. 1 3 . An average elastic modulus determined from nine indentations on three individual NCD supergrains is 474.16 13.48 GPa. This value is higher than the elastic modulus of CVD NCD film 387 17 GPa measured by nanoindentation with a Berkovich indenter using Oliver and Pharr method while lower than the values measured by other methods e.g. 626 17 GPa by two biaxial bending test and 695 4 GPa by free vibration of NCD plates and 517 1120 GPa by surface acoustic wave test of NCD film.

Raman EELS NEXAFS and TEM analysis revealed that NCD were deposited on nanowires to form NCD wires. The elastic modulus of the NCD wires measured by nanoindentation is 474.16 13.48 GPa. This new type of diamond structure will find numerous applications by taking advantage of NCD s extreme properties. Moreover NCD wire may enable the production of molecular sieves high surface area electrodes and other applications where diamond films are not applicable. Remarkable electron and high current density has been achieved using thin film NCD 27 28 while nitrogen doped NCD wires may further improve the field emission properties with their unique geometry.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall there between. Now that the invention has been described 

