---

title: Method for facilitating human social interaction using a computing system
abstract: Techniques for facilitating human social interaction, such as dating, through a computing system are disclosed. A logical representation of a social interaction called an event is created. The event is proposed to a second user for the system by the user that created the event. A response from the second user determines the communications paths available through the system. In one example, a positive response from the second user allows further communication between the users via a web-based messaging system. Methods of advertising and matching using this system are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945628&OS=07945628&RS=07945628
owner: VaVu, Inc.
number: 07945628
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070809
---
The present invention relates generally to web pages. More specifically a system and method for facilitating human social interaction using a web page is disclosed.

Online dating websites currently rely on profile related data collected from the user to match people with one another. This profile data is meant to describe a user s personality and may include information such as favorite music astrological sign or religion or may be the result of more complicated personality tests. Examples of such services include match.com and eharmony.com.

Once a user creates a profile on a web based service it is common for a process to perform a compatibility check to determine if the new profile matches other profiles already in the system. Matched users will be notified of the match. Users are required to take further action if interested in pursuing a relationship. Such action may include sending an indication of interest to the other user through the facilitating site.

Some sites use complex algorithms and extremely detailed personality profiles or tests to facilitate matches but it is most common to allow users to search one another s pseudo anonymous profiles based on more superficial factors. These factors often include location information sexual orientation age race and religion. Once a match or list of matches is made a user can often view a photo of the users listed.

Current online dating software is concerned with finding a personality or superficial match based on profile data. The match introduces purported compatible people to one another with the hope or expectation that the personality compatibility will ensure that the users enjoy one another s company. The focus is on the match rather than the date. Likewise websites focused on sending invitations to users such as evite.com have no matchmaking focus.

A method for facilitating social interaction between people is disclosed. The creation of event objects that represent social interaction between people enables users of the system to search for people with like interests based on saved events and to propose events to other users in an effort to entice people into a social interaction. Methods for event creation system operation matching users and advertising systems are discussed in the specification.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Before discussing the functional aspects of embodiments of the invention the concept of an event will be explained. In the context of online dating an event is a logical representation of something that a user may wish to do on a date or extended social interaction. This includes a wide variety of things to do such as taking a walk in a park going to see a movie as well as going to see a specific movie flying to the Bahamas skydiving or simply having dinner.

An event is not however common profile information. Common profile information often includes attributes that describe an individual. With traditional online dating sites users often search for one another based on these attributes. A user may list his or her astrological sign personality type or the results of a social attributes test such as a Meyers Briggs test. A key difference between an event and a personal attribute is that an event is something that the user actually wants to do on a date. While a user of a traditional dating website may say I like walks on the beach it is not the same as saying on my first date with you I want to take a walk on the beach. It would be highly unusual for example to see a user profile stating I would like to go to Teatro Zinzanni for a dinner theatre experience on May 20 at 7 00 pm. An event on the other hand is capable of containing such information. In one embodiment an event is an activity that is planned for the future.

While the systems and techniques discussed herein explain embodiments of the invention in the context of online dating other forms of human social interaction are within the scope of embodiments of the invention. For example social networking sites may wish to incorporate embodiments of the invention in order to allow interaction between users in a less romantic context.

A user is defined as one who uses the system. It is not necessarily a requirement that a user be registered or otherwise formally identified by the system in order to use the system or its features.

Proposing an event in the context of online dating represents asking someone on a date that includes the particular event. More than one event may be proposed at one time. In this case individual events are grouped together and the group of events is used by one user to ask another user on a date. A date may but does not need to specify a specific day or time.

In an embodiment of the invention such as the embodiment illustrated in a user of client may wish to create an event and use that event to propose a social interaction to the user of client or the user of mobile client . A diagram representing one possible structure of an event can be found in . Events A and B are the same event. Events B and may be contained in an event container . Any number of events may be contained in an event container and an event container may be used to propose social interaction as if the event container were a single event .

Client in an embodiment connects to web server via the network and makes a request to create an event . Event information may be manually entered by the user and transmitted to web server in which case the event will be stored in database . This particular flow of information is not necessary however.

For example web server may communicate event information from a separate content provider to client to assist the user in creating an event . Alternatively client may connect directly to content provider in order to create an event . Through interacting with content provider a request may be made to web server to create an event . The event will then be stored in database or other storage means.

Once the event is created in one embodiment client makes a request to web server to propose one or more events to another user of the system. Such a user may use client client or both client and client . In one embodiment web server communicates the proposed event to client .

At step in the system receives a request from a user to propose one or more events to a second user. In this embodiment at step the system notifies the second user of the proposed events . The system then receives a response from the second user regarding the proposed events at step . At step communication paths through which the users are allowed to communicate with one another are determined. These communication paths may include instant messaging or other web based messaging system both real time and non real time mobile text or video messaging e mail or other communication means. The system is then configured at step to allow the determined communication paths.

An event is usually created by a user of the system. The user may create an event manually in which case he will be prompted for information regarding the event . Event categories suggestions and other information may be displayed to the user in order to assist in the creation of the event . The user may enter as many attributes of an event as he wishes. For example the user may choose to define only a title of an event and the name of the place such as a restaurant at which the event will occur. Alternatively the user may choose to define a specific date and time or even a particular menu item if he wishes.

Events may be created by a user by simply selecting or clicking on an advertisement displayed by the system or another source such as a third party website . In the embodiment shown in a user visits a website that is not part of the system at step . At step the user interacts with the website which causes XML formatted data to be sent to the system along with a request to create an event at step . At step in the embodiment the system creates and associates the event with the user. The event is then available for the user to use to propose the event to another user.

In one embodiment the request by the user can cause the system to create a copy of a previously stored event a parent event along with a reference back to the parent event. This reference allows users to be matched based on selections of the same events along with other statistic gathering advantages. A reference to the user that created the event may also be created. A non registered user of the system may be prompted to create an account with the matchmaking service at this point but this does not preclude the creation of the event .

Another way a user may create an event easily is to select an event created by a different user of the system. Users may be given the option to allow other users of the system access to view saved events associated with the user. These other users may then select the event and choose to make a copy. These other users may then be associated with the new copy. In such a case a reference may also point to the parent event. A tree of parenthood may be created that may assist in matching. For example if User creates an event and User makes a copy then that copy will reference the event created by User as that copy s parent. User may make a copy of the event created by User and the event created by User may point to the event created by User as its parent. Alternatively parenthood may be inherited and User s event may inherit the parent of User s event and therefore list the event created by User as the parent of User s event .

One way of assisting users in creating events is to suggest events to them based on the user s local zip code and popularity. Users may search the system for restaurants and the system may return a list of restaurants within a 15 mile radius of the user s specified location. Such information may be determined from a local database or even a third party database .

Examples of proprietary databases capable of providing such information include Yahoo Local and Google Local. These content providers have Application Programming Interfaces APIs that allow a search query to be submitted and will return results that may be used to create an event . The system may submit a search to Yahoo Local requesting all matches to the query pizza near the zip code 95122. Yahoo Local will retrieve relevant information and deliver the matching items to the system in XML format. These items typically include the name address phone number and website of the business along with other relevant information. A user can choose a business from the list and then use this information to create an event rather than typing the information manually.

Third party software may also be used to create events . An API may be set up on the system to allow users of third party software to create events on the system in an automated manner.

In an embodiment of the invention events when created by a user are stored in a database along with a reference to the user s identification number on the system. The database holds all information about the event . The data may be stored in any of a variety of ways. For example the database may be designed to hold all restaurant data in one database table and movie data in a separate table. Alternatively one table may hold every event . If multiple events are to be used in the same proposal using a database driven system then an event container can be created. The event container may reference each event the container contains or alternatively each event contained by the container may reference the container.

Events may also be stored in XML files or any other storage mechanism. An event stored in XML format may take on the following form 

Using XML elements is not required even if XML is meant to be the storage preference. An EVENT element may simply contain its attributes. This method may assist in efficiency in cases where elements are not expected to go more than multiple levels. Finally a mixture of elements and attributes may be used.

Additionally more than one event may be stored in the same XML document. This allows more than one event to be used for a single proposal.

In an embodiment of the invention the event contains a reference back to the user that created the event . When creating an event based on another event previously created by another user of the system or an advertiser a copy of the event is made on the system to allow the copying user to customize the event . The reference to the copying user in the event allows a user to have a list of favorite events to use as proposals to other users of the system.

A user may also be given the option to make an event public or private. If the event is set to private then the event may not be viewed by other users of the system. If the event is set to public then other users of the system may view the event and make copies of the event . Other levels of access may be provided. One embodiment allows only connected friends of the user to see a user s events . These connected friends may be people that the user has voluntarily made a connection with through the system.

The storing of events is not limited to general users of the system. For example advertisers system administrators and others given access by the system operators may store events on the system. Advertisers for example may create events that they believe will be popular and may post the events with a price they are willing to pay for each event to be displayed to a user if the user types in certain key words. In this case an API would be created to allow users to automate this bidding process.

Other methods known to a person skilled in the art may also be used to create events such as form submission from third party websites mobile applications embedded applications as well as self contained programs that are platform independent such as Flash and Java.

In one embodiment before a user can actually put an event to use he finds another user to which to propose the event . There are several ways to search for users based on event information. These methods of searching may be combined with more traditional searching methods such as searching based on user profile information.

A user may simply search for another user based on specific text that may show up in an event . This allows the user to find another user who is interested in the same activities as the user is. For example a user may be searching for someone who wishes to attend the upcoming U2 concert. The user may use search terms such as U2 or U2 Concert to search events . The search mechanism may then find event that a have been created by users and b match the search query. The search mechanism may display all or a portion of the results to the searching user. The results may include information about each event as well as information about the user who created the event including profile information and pictures. The searching user may choose the most appropriate match from the list.

A user may also find an event that the user finds interesting and select an option to search for users that have created a matching event . For example the user may find an advertised event entitled London Symphony Orchestra and make a request to the system to return a list of events matching the advertised event . The system may search for events that are copies of the advertised event in an embodiment of the invention that enables users to make copies of events with a reference to the parent event . These would be near certain matches.

The system may also attempt to find matching events based on the text in the advertised event . For example the system may also look for events not having a reference to the advertised event as a parent but which contain words matching London Symphony Orchestra in the title. A match may contain some or all of the words searched for. Alternatively a match may contain only synonyms of the words defined by the system.

A user may also search for matches based on non advertised events . Since users may create events by copying events from one another or advertisers a first user may find an event created by a second user and then choose to look for others that have created the same event . Since the event may have a parent the system may find other events in the family tree of events or events the have a referenced relationship by traversing the family tree of parenthood. Alternatively if parenthood is inherited when an event is copied then the system may find all events with the same parent as the event with which the search was initiated. An event may even have a parent event and a root event denoting the immediate parent as well as the root parent. If the event is a parent event then the system may find all events that are copies of the event from which the search was initiated. If the event from which the search is initiated is not a parent or child of another event then a text search may be utilized in an effort to find matching events .

A user may set up a series of search terms for which he wishes to be notified in the case of a second user of the system creating an event that matches the search terms. The system may run the query at predetermined or user defined frequency. Matches will result in a notification to the user informing the user of the match.

Any notification from the system may be via a web based messaging system e mail mobile text message video message audio message or any other means of notification initiated by the system. Such a notification may even be accomplished by displaying the results of the search to the user at each login to the system.

Another method of matching based on events searches at a predetermined or user defined frequency for all events matching an event created by a particular user. For example if user creates an event then the system may search for other events that match the event created by user. This search may be done by text family tree or other search methods. The system then notifies user of matching events . Also the system may notify the user creating the matching event of the match. This notification may display the event profile information of a user who created a matching event or any other relevant information associated with the event .

Once a first user has found a second user that seems appealing it is time to propose one or more events to that second user. In an embodiment of the invention the first user selects one or more events that he wishes to use as a proposal to a second user. The first user then chooses a second user to propose the events to. The combination of these two selections results in a request to the system to propose the selected event or events to the selected user.

In one embodiment of the invention event proposals may be stored in a database table as shown in . Information such as the requestor ID requested user ID an event container ID and the response to the proposal may be stored in such a table. Any information relevant to an event proposal may be stored in a table or combination of tables.

In an embodiment of the invention a user is not restricted to proposing an event previously saved in his favorite events list. He may find a user that already has a favorite event picked out and choose to propose the other user s event to that other user this may increase the chances of a positive response .

Once the system has received the request to propose an event to the second user the system associates the second user with the event . This can be done in many ways. In one embodiment of the invention this is accomplished with a proposals table that holds a list of proposed events along with the associated proposing users as well as the uses to which the event was proposed.

The second user is then notified of the proposed event . This may be done by a web based messaging system mobile text message e mail or any other means of delivery.

The second user may then respond to the proposal by accepting the proposal rejecting the proposal or otherwise responding. Other responses may include refusal to allow a particular user to propose events again blacklisting a response indicating interest however requiring more information or other levels of response.

In an embodiment of the invention if the second user accepts the proposal then additional communications paths are opened between the users through the system. These communications paths may be user defined or system defined. For example an accepted event may result in the system creating the ability for the first user and second user to communicate with one another through a web based messaging system. A table of communication rights may determine which users are entitled to communicate with other users of the system in which ways. For example a table entry may show user s ID and user s ID as well as which communication methods are available for communication between the two users.

Alternatively the system may reveal contact information about the users to one another. This may include e mail addresses phone numbers or other personal contact information. Temporary e mail addresses may even be created for each user on the system for use with this interaction so users may use a familiar communication mechanism e mail without sacrificing privacy. These temporary email addresses may be deleted from the system at any time specified by the user or the system.

Other methods of communication are also capable of being facilitated by the system such as instant messaging chat or Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP . All of these and other methods of communication are within the scope of embodiments of the invention.

Social networking websites such as MySpace and FaceBook allow an opportunity for users to display the user s favorite events to their friends. External modules allow users to list at least a portion of the user s favorite events on a website of the user s choice.

In one embodiment of the invention these modules are created by the user inputting the URL of the website on which that user wishes to post the list of events into a form after logging into the system. The form then generates code for the user to post on the website of that user s choice. This code may be in any language supported by web servers.

After the user posts the returned code on the website of their choice when the code is accessed a request is made to the server to display a list of events associated with the user that created the code. To avoid misuse a request may be verified by the system by comparing the URL of the requesting page with the URL entered at the time of creation.

Once the events show on the user s website those viewing the website will be able to see the events and select the events to navigate to a page within the system. The viewing user may then propose an event to the user that posted the event module on the web page.

Given the proliferation of smart phones personal digital assistants and other mobile devices as well as the ongoing convergence of mobile devices and more traditional home computing such technologies are recognized and within the scope of the invention.

Although the embodiments discussed throughout the specification describe a single user proposing one or more events to a single second user in the context of online dating embodiments of the invention are not so limited. As discussed before embodiments of the invention may be used in the context of social networking or other forms of human interaction. Furthermore embodiments of the invention are not limited to a single user proposing events to a second single user. Embodiments of invention may be used to allow group dating where several users each propose the same event to separate partners.

Also a user may propose a list of 10 events to a second user and ask the second user to choose three of the events . Likewise a user may view a list of events that a second user has packaged together. The package may offer the ability to choose a subset of the events. The first user may choose several of the events and then use this subset as a proposal to the second user.

These and other alternative embodiments of the invention will be recognized by one skilled in the art and are within the scope of embodiments of the invention.

The introduction of the event structure into online dating and other social interaction websites and mobile device applications brings new marketing and business opportunities.

Advertisers on web sites typically have the goal of driving traffic to a particular website by placing advertisements on high traffic websites that attract a target demographic. An advertiser pays a web site operator a sum of money to place an ad on the advertising web site. The goal is that a user of the advertising web site will then view the advertisement select the advertisement by clicking on the advertisement and then be redirected to the advertiser s web site. From there it is up to the advertiser to have a web site that is intriguing enough to convince the user to participate in some commercial related interaction resulting in the sale of a product or service or other method of leveraging the user in such a way that money is gained for the advertiser.

The goal of an advertisement on an embodiment of the invention is the same financial gain through commercial interaction. The difference lies in the method of achieving that goal. A successful advertisement will result in the creation of an event rather than redirection to the advertiser s website. Since the generation of an event by a user of the system represents some level of commitment to use the event to propose a date or other social interaction to another user of the system it is useful for advertisers to allow the system operator to take on the final step of converting the user into a sale of goods or services.

For example a traditional dating website may host an advertisement for a restaurant such as Maggiano s Little Italy. A user of the website may click on the advertisement calling a redirection script that tracks the click and redirects the user to the Maggiano s website. At this point the role of the website is finished. Payment for the advertisement may be provided in a lump sum in an amount based on the number of click throughs or a combination of the two.

In an embodiment of the invention an advertiser such as the restaurant Il Fornaio may pay to place an advertisement on the system. A user of the system viewing the advertisement may choose to select the advertisement by clicking on the advertisement. After the user selects the advertisement steps are taken that lead to the creation of an event on the system. This may happen in several ways.

For example once an advertisement is selected an event may be created for the user immediately and placed in the user s favorite events. This allows the user to quickly find a pre built event to propose to a second user.

Other advertisements may give the user the expectation that more information about the advertised goods and services will be displayed after the user selects the advertisement. In such cases a user may be directed to a web page within the system that describes the goods and services in full detail. Also on the web page may be a call to action that when selected will create an event on the system. There may be more than one option given to the user to customize the event before the event s creation. This may be useful if a particular performance night of a ballet is selected for example.

An event may also contain metadata about the advertiser assisting the user in the final purchase. For example the user that created an event representing a particular performance night of a ballet may propose the event to a second user of the system who accepts. The first user or even the second user may receive a notification from the system with metadata contained in the event such as a link to a website allowing the user to purchase tickets for the ballet.

Alternatively an advertisement may take the user to a web page that actually allows the user to purchase tickets for the ballet. After the purchase an event may be created. This event may even contain an attribute showing that tickets have already been purchased for the ballet. Such an indication may be more enticing to the user to which the event is proposed especially for sold out showings of concerts and the like.

An advertiser may wish to retain control of the website to which the user is redirected however. In this case the user may be redirected outside of the system. The advertiser s website may then allow the creation of an event through a call to the system. This may happen before or after a purchase but the result is the creation of an event with which the user intends to propose to another user of the system.

In each of these advertising methods there are new points of possible financial interaction between the advertiser and the system operator. An advertiser may be charged 

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications. All such media must be tangible to enable the instructions carried by the media to be detected by a physical mechanism that reads the instructions into a machine.

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

