---

title: Optical gas monitor
abstract: A frequency modulated spectroscopy system, including a photo-detector, a band-pass filter to filter the output of the photo-detector, and a rectifier to demodulate. The band-pass filter has a relatively high Q factor. With the high Q factor band-pass filter and rectifier, a reference sinusoid is not required for demodulation, resulting in phase-insensitive spectroscopy. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07843565&OS=07843565&RS=07843565
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 07843565
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070529
---
This patent application claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 60 809 000 filed 26 May 2006.

The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to Grant No. DE FC26 04NT42212 T 103181 awarded by the Department of Energy.

The present invention relates to spectroscopy and more particularly to frequency modulation spectroscopy.

Laser frequency modulation FM spectroscopy is a commonly used method for optical detection of trace gases in the atmosphere. illustrates at the system level a FM spectroscopy system and its accompanying signal processing system. Source provides the laser radiation that is frequency modulated. Source may be a tunable diode laser or a combination of a laser and an electro optical modulator. The frequency of the laser radiation is usually modulated by either modulating the injection current of the diode laser or by modulating its phase. The phase may be modulated by using a non linear crystal to perform electro optical modulation.

A major contribution to source noise comes from 1 f noise. The power density of this type of noise is inversely proportional to the frequency. FM spectroscopy reduces the contribution of 1 f noise by performing detection at radio frequencies where its power is significantly lower. Accordingly the frequency modulation is usually within the RF radio frequency band. The laser light is transmitted through the region to be monitored measured .

In ideal single tone FM modulation spectral power is present at the carrier optical frequency of the laser radiation and at harmonics of the frequency modulation where the power spectral power is symmetrical about the carrier frequency. Let denote the carrier frequency of a laser source n an index denoting a harmonic and denote the modulation frequency. For ideal FM spectroscopy because the spectral power is symmetrical about the optical carrier frequency the radiated spectral power at frequency n is the same as the power at frequency n . Gases to be detected have an absorption gradient with respect to frequency. If the carrier frequency and at least one pair of harmonics are in a frequency range for which there is an absorption gradient then the radiated laser is modulated by the gas so that its spectral power is no longer symmetrical about its carrier frequency. For example if the carrier frequency and the first harmonic are such that and under go different absorption rates then the spectral power at will no longer be equal to the spectral power at . The result is that the intensity of the radiation now has a sinusoidal component at frequency and that the amplitude of this frequency component is indicative of the absorption. That is the imbalance in the frequency domain due to the absorption gradient now imparts an amplitude modulated RF component onto the intensity of the laser radiation.

In the particular system of RF oscillator provides the frequency source for the FM modulation. Detector receives the radiation and outputs an electrical signal indicative of the received radiation. Because the amplitude modulated component is in the RF band the front end of the signal processing system is operated in the RF band. The signal output of detector is high pass filtered by filter . The signal processing system in performs homodyne detection a common technique in FM spectroscopy. The detector signal is mixed with a reference sinusoidal signal at the desired harmonic of the modulation frequency. The reference sinusoidal signal is generated from the output of RF oscillator . The phase of the reference sinusoidal signal is controlled by phase shift circuit . Note that the output signal of RF oscillator may be multiplied by a factor so to detect at a desired harmonic. In the particular example of the output of RF oscillator is up converted by a factor of 2. The reference sinusoidal signal the output of phase shifter is mixed with the output of high pass filter by mixer and the output of mixer is low pass filtered by filter to provide a signal indicative of the amplitude modulation. Data acquisition performs analog to digital conversion of the output of filter and applies other digital signal processing functions and data acquisition tasks.

In some applications laser source is frequency modulated at two closely spaced RF frequencies. The resulting spectral power is at the carrier frequency and at sums and differences of multiples of the two RF frequencies. This is commonly referred to as two tone frequency modulation. The two tone FM technique is well suited for spectroscopy of atmospherically broadened lines. In this technique the RF frequencies are chosen close to or greater than the width of the absorption feature. Detection is performed at the difference frequency between the two tones which is typically in the low MHz range. This permits the use of low bandwidth detectors and signal amplifiers.

Homodyne detection is a phase sensitive detection technique because the amplitude of the output signal from low pass filter is dependent on the phase difference between the reference sinusoid signal from phase shifter and the phase of the RF signal provided by detector and filter . This phase difference is usually adjusted to maximize the output signal by phase shifting the reference sinusoidal signal. During a measurement the relative phase should be fixed because fluctuations in the phase will lead to fluctuations in the output signal of filter . However maintaining the phase in an open air long path application may be difficult due to phase noise. Fluctuations of the refractive index in the atmosphere due to convection lead to variations of the phase of the detected signal and therefore noise in the spectrum.

In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention utilize one or more band pass filters having a relatively high Q factor. As is well known the Q factor of an oscillating system may be defined as

The response of a high Q factor system is large for an input signal having a frequency of oscillation close or equal to and the response falls off very rapidly when the frequency of an input signal varies from . For band pass filters in the language of electronics is the center frequency of the band pass filter and is the bandwidth.

An example of a laser and signal processing system according to an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . Laser source is frequency modulated by RF oscillator . Detector provides a signal indicative of the received laser radiation which is amplified by amplifier . Filter is a band pass filter having a relatively high Q factor. Some embodiments may utilize a crystal filter for filter . Crystal filters are readily available with Q factors in the range of 1000 to 2000 and even higher and at specific center frequencies. For example crystal filters with center frequencies 10.7 MHz 21.4 MHz 45 MHz 55 MHz 70 MHz and 90 MHz are readily available with various bandwidths depending upon the center frequency and with transfer functions with various numbers of poles.

Crystal filters are commonly used in electronic components and utilize resonances in quartz crystals. Although a crystal filter can offer a relatively high Q factor both the center frequency and bandwidth are fixed for a particular crystal. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention frequency modulate the laser source so that a desired harmonic matches the center frequency of the crystal filter. For example if the laser source is frequency modulated at a single RF frequency single tone frequency modulation spectroscopy then the RF frequency is chosen such that a desired harmonic of the RF frequency matches the center frequency of the crystal filter. The laser source may be tuned across an absorption line of the species of interest by slowly ramping the laser injection current.

For the case of frequency modulating the laser source at two closely spaced RF frequencies two tone frequency modulation spectroscopy the RF frequencies may be chosen such that a harmonic of the difference in the two frequencies matches the center frequency of the crystal filter where the center of the two RF frequencies is chosen to maximize the absorption difference of a spectral feature. Note that a harmonic of the difference in the two frequencies as referred to above means n m where and are the frequencies of the two tones and n and m are integers positive or negative .

Several stages of filtering and amplification may be used to achieve a higher signal to noise ratio. For example in the particular embodiment of amplifier amplifies the output of filter which is then band pass filtered by filter . Amplifier provides further amplification. Rectifier rectifies the output of amplifier and filter provides low pass filtering. The combination of rectifier and low pass filter performs envelope detection so that amplitude demodulation is performed by the signal processing system of . The resulting amplitude is provided to data acquisition module . Some embodiments may employ only one stage of amplification and band pass filtering so that the output of band pass filter is provided to rectifier .

By using one or more band pass filters having a relatively high Q factor note that the embodiment of does not require a reference sinusoid to perform Homodyne detection. That is a reference sinusoid is not mixed with a received signal. The DC signal provided by rectifier and low pass filter is dependent on only the detected signal amplitude but not on its phase and therefore the embodiment of is expected to be relatively insensitive to the phase noise introduced by atmospheric fluctuations and changes in the optical path length.

For some embodiments in order to achieve higher optical power the radiation of the un modulated laser source e.g. a diode laser may be amplified by an amplifier such as an Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifier EDFA and the amplified radiation may be modulated by a separate modulator with two modulation frequencies for two tone FM.

Data acquisition module performs one or more signal processing functions. One such function is to mitigate fluctuations in the demodulated output that are not due to the absorption gradient of the species to be detected. That is even if there are no species with absorption gradients in practice there is nevertheless an amplitude modulated sinusoidal component in the intensity of the laser radiation. For example residual amplitude modulation RAM of the laser power at the demodulation frequency is usually present due to non linearity in the laser response to the external modulation or to non ideal performance of the modulation source. Data acquisition module may be used to cancel this laser power fluctuation by dividing the demodulated signal by the DC voltage from the photo detector which is proportional to the received laser power. Some or all of the functions performed by data acquisition module may be realized in special purpose hardware firmware or software running on one or more programmable processors.

The system of components for launching the open path radiation beam may be mounted on an optical mount to allow adjustment of the beam direction. That is the components in excluding retro reflector may also include an optical mount and more than one retro reflector may be positioned at different directions. As the components on the optical mount are rotated toward the various retro reflectors different regions of the atmosphere may be probed.

A retro reflector may include single or multiple corner cube reflectors and may be placed in a remote location in the monitoring area within line of sight to the launcher and collection optics. The collection optics may include several mirrors or lenses e.g. a telescope. The radiation passing through reference cell is also focused onto a photo detector where receiver performs the signal processing indicated by .

For some embodiments additional splitters or switches may be employed to provide additional laser beams to probe other regions of the atmosphere at the same time or at different times using a time division multiplexing approach. This is illustrated in showing a beam from laser split into several beams by component . Component may also be a switch or system of switches whereby a single beam is directed to one of retro reflectors or . For simplicity not shown are the reflected beams collection optics and detector. In the time division multiplexing approach a single detector may be used where its position may be oriented to receive the reflected beam or collection optics and one or more mirrors may be used to refract and reflect the reflected beam to the detector. The signal processing system as illustrated in is used in the embodiment of . The electronics may be shared for signal processing tasks associated with all the beams or multiple electronic systems may be employed each system dedicated to a particular beam.

The phase difference between a received frequency modulated laser beam and the reference RF sinusoid generated by local RF oscillator is a function of the optical path length between the laser source and the detector. In any realistic deployment scenario the distances to the various retro reflectors are not the same for a system such as . Therefore the received signals undergo different phase shifts with respect to the phase of the local RF oscillator. Accordingly the signal processing system in is expected to be of importance to systems such as .

Embodiments are expected to be of utility in detecting a number of different gases such as for example Carbon Dioxide Methane Hydrogen Sulfide and for detecting Carbon Deuterium and Sulfur isotopes of these various gases. Embodiments are expected to provide a phase insensitive FM method for measuring concentration profiles of gas leaks and leak speed over a relatively large monitoring area.

Various modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below. Furthermore it is to be understood in these letters patent that the meaning of A is coupled to B is that either A and B are directly connected to each other or that although A and B may not be directly connected to each other there is nevertheless a device or circuit that is connected to both A and B. This device or circuit may include active or passive circuit elements where the passive circuit elements may be distributed or lumped parameter in nature. For example A may be connected to a circuit element that in turn is connected to B in which case A may be said to be coupled to B.

