---

title: Gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonists and methods related thereto
abstract: 

wherein R, R, R, R, R, R, R, R, Rand X are as defined herein, including stereoisomers, prodrugs and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Also disclosed are compositions containing a compound of this invention in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, as well as methods relating to the use thereof for antagonizing gonadotropin-releasing hormone in a subject in need thereof.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07419983&OS=07419983&RS=07419983
owner: Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc.
number: 07419983
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070125
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 251 085 filed Oct. 14 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 176 211 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 885 491 filed Jul. 6 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 7 056 927 issued on Jun. 6 2006 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 485 434 filed Jul. 7 2003 all of which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Partial funding of the work described herein was provided by the U.S. Government under Grant No. 1 R43 HD38625 and 2R44 HD38625 02 provided by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates generally to gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH receptor antagonists and to methods of treating disorders by administration of such antagonists to a warm blooded animal in need thereof.

Gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH also known as luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH is a decapeptide pGlu His Trp Ser Tyr Gly Leu Arg Pro Gly NH2 that plays an important role in human reproduction. GnRH is released from the hypothalamus and acts on the pituitary gland to stimulate the biosynthesis and release of luteinizing hormone LH and follicle stimulating hormone FSH . LH released from the pituitary gland is responsible for the regulation of gonadal steroid production in both males and females while FSH regulates spermatogenesis in males and follicular development in females.

Due to its biological importance synthetic antagonists and agonists to GnRH have been the focus of considerable attention particularly in the context of prostate cancer breast cancer endometriosis uterine leiomyoma fibroids ovarian cancer prostatic hyperplasia assisted reproductive therapy and precocious puberty 358 1793 1803 2001166 9 14 2000 . For example peptidic GnRH agonists such as leuprorelin pGlu His Trp Ser Tyr d Leu Leu Arg Pro NHEt have been used to treat such conditions. Such agonists appear to function by binding to the GnRH receptor in the pituitary gonadotropins thereby inducing the synthesis and release of gonadotropins. Chronic administration of GnRH agonists depletes gonadotropins and subsequently down regulates the receptor resulting in suppression of steroidal hormones after some period of time e.g. on the order of 2 3 weeks following initiation of chronic administration .

In contrast GnRH antagonists are believed to suppress gonadotropins from the onset and thus have received the most attention over the past two decades. To date some of the primary obstacles to the clinical use of such antagonists have been their relatively low bioavailability and adverse side effects caused by histamine release. However several peptidic antagonists with low histamine release properties have been reported although they still must be delivered via sustained delivery routes such as subcutaneous injection or intranasal spray due to limited bioavailability.

In view of the limitations associated with peptidic GnRH antagonists a number of nonpeptidic compounds have been proposed. For example Cho et al. 41 4190 4195 1998 discloses thieno 2 3 b pyridin 4 ones for use as GnRH receptor antagonists U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 780 437 and 5 849 764 teach substituted indoles as GnRH receptor antagonists as do published PCTs WO 97 21704 98 55479 98 55470 98 55116 98 55119 97 21707 97 21703 and 97 21435 published PCT WO 96 38438 discloses tricyclic diazepines as GnRH receptor antagonists published PCTs WO97 14682 97 14697 and 99 09033 disclose quinoline and thienopyridine derivatives as GnRH antagonists published PCTs WO 97 44037 97 44041 97 44321 and 97 44339 teach substituted quinolin 2 ones as GnRH receptor antagonists and published PCT WO 99 33831 discloses certain phenyl substituted fused nitrogen containing bicyclic compounds as GnRH receptor antagonists. Recently published PCTs WO 02 066459 and WO 02 11732 disclose the use of indole derivatives and novel bicyclic and tricyclic pyrrolidine derivatives as GnRH antagonists respectively. Other recently published PCTs which disclose compounds and their use as GnRH antagonists include WO 00 69859 WO 01 29044 WO 01 55119 WO 03 013528 WO 03 011870 WO 03 011841 WO 03 011839 and WO 03 011293.

While significant strides have been made in this field there remains a need in the art for effective small molecule GnRH receptor antagonists. There is also a need for pharmaceutical compositions containing such GnRH receptor antagonists as well as methods relating to the use thereof to treat for example sex hormone related conditions. The present invention fulfills these needs and provides other related advantages.

In brief this invention is generally directed to gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH receptor antagonists as well as to methods for their preparation and use and to pharmaceutical compositions containing the same. More specifically the GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention are compounds having the following general structure I 

The GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention have utility over a wide range of therapeutic applications and may be used to treat a variety of sex hormone related conditions in both men and women as well as a mammal in general also referred to herein as a subject . For example such conditions include endometriosis uterine fibroids polycystic ovarian disease hirsutism precocious puberty gonadal steroid dependent neoplasia such as cancers of the prostate breast and ovary gonadotrophe pituitary adenomas sleep apnea irritable bowel syndrome premenstrual syndrome benign prostatic hypertrophy contraception and infertility e.g. assisted reproductive therapy such as in vitro fertilization . The compounds of this invention are also useful as an adjunct to treatment of growth hormone deficiency and short stature and for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosis. The compounds are also useful in combination with androgens estrogens progesterones and antiestrogens and antiprogestogens for the treatment of endometriosis fibroids and in contraception as well as in combination with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor an angiotensin II receptor antagonist or a renin inhibitor for the treatment of uterine fibroids. In addition the compounds may be used in combination with bisphosphonates and other agents for the treatment and or prevention of disturbances of calcium phosphate and bone metabolism and in combination with estrogens progesterones and or androgens for the prevention or treatment of bone loss or hypogonadal symptoms such as hot flashes during therapy with a GnRH antagonist.

The compounds of the present invention in addition to their GnRH receptor antagonist activity possess a reduced interaction with the major metabolic enzymes in the liver namely the Cytochrome P450 enzymes. This family of enzymes which includes the subtypes CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 is responsible for the metabolism of drugs and toxins leading to their disposition from the body. Inhibition of these enzymes can lead to life threatening conditions where the enzyme is not able to perform this function.

The methods of this invention include administering an effective amount of a GnRH receptor antagonist preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition to a mammal in need thereof. Thus in still a further embodiment pharmaceutical compositions are disclosed containing one or more GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluent.

These and other aspects of the invention will be apparent upon reference to the following detailed description. To this end various references are set forth herein which describe in more detail certain background information procedures compounds and or compositions and are each hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

As mentioned above the present invention is directed generally to compounds useful as gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH receptor antagonists. The compounds of this invention have the following structure I 

 Calkyl means a straight chain or branched noncyclic or cyclic unsaturated or saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl and the like while saturated branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl isopentyl and the like. Representative saturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and the like while unsaturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl and the like. Unsaturated alkyls contain at least one double or triple bond between adjacent carbon atoms referred to as an alkenyl or alkynyl respectively . Representative straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl propylenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl and the like while representative straight chain and branched alkynyls include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl and the like.

 Calkyl means a straight chain or branched noncyclic or cyclic hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Representative straight chain alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl and the like branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl and the like while cyclic alkyls include cyclopropyl and the like.

 Calkyl means a straight chain or branched noncyclic or cyclic hydrocarbon containing from 3 to 7 carbon atoms. Representative straight chain alkyls include n propyl n butyl n hexyl and the like while branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl isopentyl and the like. Representative cyclic alkyls include cyclopropyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and the like.

 Calkanediyl means a divalent Calkyl from which two hydrogen atoms are taken from the same carbon atom or from difference carbon atoms such as CH CHCH CHCHCH CH CH CHCH CHC CH CH and the like.

 Acid isostere means an moiety that exhibits properties similar to carboxylic acid and which has a pKa of less than 8 and preferably less than 7. Representative acid isosteres include tetrazole 3H 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 one 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 one 1 2 dihydro 1 2 4 triazol 3 one 2H 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 one triazole substituted with a sulfonyl or sulfoxide group imidazole substituted with a sulfonyl or sulfoxide group 1 2 4 oxadiazolidine 3 5 dione 1 2 4 thiadiazolidine 3 5 dione imidazolidine 2 4 dione imidazolidine 2 4 5 trione pyrrolidine 2 5 dione and pyrrolidine 2 3 5 trione. Acid isosteres also include C O NHSONRR C O NHSOR C O NHC O NRRand C O NHC O R where R is hydrogen or Calkyl and Ris Calkyl.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl and representative GnRH antagonists of the present invention include compounds having the following structure III .

In another embodiment Ris Calkyl and representative GnRH antagonists of the present invention include compounds having the following structure III .

In more specific embodiments of structure III Calkyl is a straight chain or branched Calkyl such as isobutyl as represented by structure IV or is a cyclic Calkyl such as cyclohexyl as represented by structure V 

In another embodiment R Rand Rare hydrogen alkoxy and halogen respectively. A representative substitution pattern includes 2 halo 3 alkoxy phenyl. Representative alkoxy groups include methoxy and ethoxy while representative halogen moieties include fluoro and chloro.

In a further embodiment Rand Rare hydrogen trifluoromethyl halogen or SOCH. A representative substitution pattern includes Ras halogen at the 2 position and Ras hydrogen trifluoromethyl halogen or SOCHat the 6 position.

Further embodiments include those wherein Ris H or methyl Ris COOH and or X is CHCH CHCHCH or CHCHCHCH .

The compounds of the present invention may be prepared by known organic synthesis techniques including the methods described in more detail in the Examples. In general the compounds of structure I above may be made by the following reaction schemes wherein all substituents are as defined above unless indicated otherwise.

An appropriately substituted benzonitrile may be reduced using an appropriate reagent such as borane in THF to the corresponding amine and then forms urea 1. Cyclization with a reagent such as diketene gives compound 2 which may be brominated with bromine in acetic acid N bromosuccinimide or other brominating agent to give compound 3. Alkylation gives compound 4 and Suzuki condensation with a boronic acid or boronic acid ester gives compound 5. Deprotection of the protected amine using a typical reagent such as trifluoroacetic acid in methylene chloride in the case of a BOC group gives compound which may be alkylated or condensed with an aldehyde via reductive amination conditions to give a compound of formula 7. It is possible to alter the order of the various reductive amination alkylation bromination and Suzuki condensation steps to give compounds of the present invention.

In a variation of Scheme 1 compound 4 undergoes deprotection to give compound 8 which under Suzuki conditions gives compound 6. The X Rgroup may be added by alkylation reductive amination or other reaction to give compound 7.

Substituted phenylacetic acid ester 9 made form the corresponding acid or purchased and reagent such as dimethylformamide dimethylacetal are condensed to give 10. Cyclization with urea gives a compound of formula 11. Alkylation using for example a substituted benzyl bromide gives 12 which may be alkylated with an appropriate alkyl halide undergo a Mitsonobu coupling reaction with an appropriate alcohol or react with a mesylate or sulfonate to give 5.

The compounds of the present invention may generally be utilized as the free acid or free base. Alternatively the compounds of this invention may be used in the form of acid or base addition salts. Acid addition salts of the free amino compounds of the present invention may be prepared by methods well known in the art and may be formed from organic and inorganic acids. Suitable organic acids include maleic fumaric benzoic ascorbic succinic methanesulfonic acetic trifluoroacetic oxalic propionic tartaric salicylic citric gluconic lactic mandelic cinnamic aspartic stearic palmitic glycolic glutamic and benzenesulfonic acids. Suitable inorganic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric phosphoric and nitric acids. Base addition salts included those salts that form with the carboxylate anion and include salts formed with organic and inorganic cations such as those chosen from the alkali and alkaline earth metals for example lithium sodium potassium magnesium barium and calcium as well as the ammonium ion and substituted derivatives thereof for example dibenzylammonium benzylammonium 2 hydroxyethylammonium and the like . Thus the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt of structure I is intended to encompass any and all acceptable salt forms.

In addition prodrugs are also included within the context of this invention. Prodrugs are any covalently bonded carriers that release a compound of structure I in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a patient. Prodrugs are generally prepared by modifying functional groups in a way such that the modification is cleaved either by routine manipulation or in vivo yielding the parent compound. Prodrugs include for example compounds of this invention wherein hydroxy amine or sulfhydryl groups are bonded to any group that when administered to a patient cleaves to form the hydroxy amine or sulfhydryl groups. Thus representative examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to acetate formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol and amine functional groups of the compounds of structure I . Further in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH esters may be employed such as methyl esters ethyl esters and the like.

With regard to stereoisomers the compounds of structure I may have chiral centers and may occur as racemates racemic mixtures and as individual enantiomers or diastereomers. All such isomeric forms are included within the present invention including mixtures thereof. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of the compounds of structure I may exist as polymorphs which are included in the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of structure I may also form solvates with water or other organic solvents. Such solvates are similarly included within the scope of this invention.

The effectiveness of a compound as a GnRH receptor antagonist may be determined by various assay techniques. Assay techniques well known in the field include the use of cultured pituitary cells for measuring GnRH activity Vale et al. 91 562 572 1972 and the measurement of radioligand binding to rat pituitary membranes Perrin et al. 23 44 51 1983 or to membranes from cells expressing cloned receptors as described below. Other assay techniques include but are not limited to measurement of the effects of GnRH receptor antagonists on the inhibition of GnRH stimulated calcium flux modulation of phosphoinositol hydrolysis and the circulating concentrations of gonadotropins in the castrate animal. Descriptions of these techniques the synthesis of radiolabeled ligand the employment of radiolabeled ligand in radioimmunoassay and the measurement of the effectiveness of a compound as a GnRH receptor antagonist follow.

Suitable GnRH antagonists are capable of inhibiting the specific binding of GnRH to its receptor and antagonizing activities associated with GnRH. For example inhibition of GnRH stimulated LH release in immature rats may be measured according to the method of Vilchez Martinez 96 1130 1134 1975 . Briefly twenty five day old male Spraque Dawley rats are administered an GnRH antagonist in saline or other suitable formulation by oral gavage subcutaneous injection or intravenous injection. This is followed by subcutaneous injection of 200 ng GnRH in 0.2 ml saline. Thirty minutes after the last injection the animals are decapitated and trunk blood is collected. After centrifugation the separated plasma is stored at 20 C. until determination of the concentrations of LH and or FSH by radioimmunoassay see below. 

Anterior pituitary glands are collected from 7 week old female Sprague Dawley rats and the harvested glands are digested with collagenase in a dispersion flask for 1.5 hr at 37 C. After collagenase digestion the glands are further digested with neuraminidase for 9 min at 37 C. The digested tissue is then washed with 0.1 BSA McCoy s 5medium and the washed cells are suspended in 3 FBS 0.1 BSA McCoy s 5medium and plated onto 96 well tissue culture plates at a cell density of 40 000 cells per well in 200 l medium. The cells are then incubated at 37 C. for 3 days. For assay of an GnRH antagonist the incubated cells are first washed with 0.1 BSA McCoy s 5medium once followed by addition of the test sample plus 1 nM GnRH in 200 l 0.1 BSA McCoy s 5medium in triplicate wells. Each sample is assayed at 5 dose levels to generate a dose response curve for determination of the potency on the inhibition of GnRH stimulated LH and or FSH release. After 4 hr incubation at 37 C. the medium is harvested and the level of LH and or FSH secreted into the medium is determined by RIA.

Cells stably or transiently transfected with GnRH receptor expression vectors are harvested resuspended in 5 sucrose and homogenized using a polytron homogenizer 2 15 sec . Nucleii are removed by centrifugation 3000 g for 5 min. and the supernatant is centrifuged 20 000 g for 30 min 4 C. to collect the membrane fraction. The final membrane preparation is resuspended in binding buffer 10 mM Hepes pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl and 0.1 BSA and stored at 70 C. Binding reactions are performed in a Millipore MultiScreen 96 well filtration plate assembly with polyethylenimine coated GF C membranes. The reaction is initiated by adding membranes 40 g protein in 130 ul binding buffer to 50 l of I labeled GnRH peptide 100 000 cpm and 20 l of competitor at varying concentrations. The reaction is terminated after 90 minutes by application of vacuum and washing 2 with phosphate buffered saline. Bound radioactivity is measured using 96 well scintillation counting Packard Topcount or by removing the filters from the plate and direct gamma counting. Kvalues are calculated from competition binding data using non linear least squares regression using the Prism software package GraphPad Software .

For additional membrane binding assays stably transfected HEK293 cells are harvested by striking tissue culture flasks against a firm surface and collected by centrifugation at 1000 g for 5 minutes. Cell pellets are resuspended in 5 sucrose and homogenized using a polytron homogenizer for two 15 second homogenization steps. Cell homogenates are then centrifuged for 5 minutes at 3000 g to remove nuclei and the supernatant is subsequently centrifuged for 30 minutes at 44 000 g to collect the membrane fraction. The membrane pellet is resuspended in GnRH binding buffer 10 mM HEPES pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl and 0.1 BSA and aliquots are immediately snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C. Protein content of the membrane suspension is determined using the Bio Rad protein assay kit Bio Rad Hercules Calif. .

Competitive radioligand binding assays with membrane preparations are performed in Millipore 96 well filtration plates with GF C membrane filters that are pre coated with 200 l of 0.1 polyethylenimine Sigma St. Louis. MO . Prior to use the plates are washed 3 with phosphate buffered saline solution. Membrane fraction in GnRH binding buffer 130 l containing 25 g protein for human and macaque receptors or 12 g for rat receptors are added to wells together with 20 l of competing ligand at varying concentrations. The binding reaction is initiated by addition of radioligand 0.1 nM in 50 l GnRH binding buffer. The reaction is allowed to proceed for 90 min on a platform shaker at room temperature and then terminated by placing assay plate on a Millipore vacuum manifold Millipore Bedford Mass. aspirating the solvent and washing wells twice with 200 l ice cold phosphate buffered saline PBS . Filters in the wells are removed and counted in a gamma counter. Kvalues are calculated from each competition binding curves using non linear least square regression and corrected for radioligand concentration using the Cheng Prusoff equation Prism GraphPad Software San Diego Calif. assuming a radioligand affinity of 0.5 nM. Mean Kvalues are calculated from the antilog of the mean of the pKvalues for each receptor ligand pair.

Stably transfected human GNRH receptor RBL cells are grown to confluence. The medium is removed and the cell monolayer is washed once with DPBS. A solution of 0.5 mM EDTA PBS Ca Mg free is added to the plate which is then incubated at 37 C. for 10 min. Cells are dislodged by gentle rapping of the flasks. The cells are collected and pelleted by centrifugation at 800 g for 10 min at 4 C. The cell pellet is then resuspended in buffer DPBS 1.5 mM KHPO 8.1 mM NaHPO 2.7 mM KCl and 138 mM NaCl supplemented with 10 mM MgCl 2 mM EGTA pH 7.4 with NaOH . Cell lysis is then performed using a pressure cell and applying Nat a pressure of 900 psi for 30 min at 4 C. Unbroken cells and larger debris are removed by centrifugation at 1200 g for 10 min at 4 C. The cell membrane supernatant is then centrifuged at 45 000 g and the resulting membrane pellet is resuspended in assay buffer and homogenized on ice using a tissue homogenizer. Protein concentrations are determined using the Coomassie Plus Protein Reagent kit Pierce Rockford Ill. using bovine serum albumin as a standard. The pellets are aliquoted and stored at 80 C. until use. Titration analysis using a range of protein concentrations determined the optimal protein concentration to be 15 g per well final concentration.

UniFilter GF C filter plates Perkin Elmer Boston Mass. are pretreated with a solution of 0.5 polyethyleneimine in distilled water for 30 minutes. Filters are pre rinsed with 200 l per well of PBS 1 BSA Fraction V and 0.01 Tween 20 pH 7.4 using a cell harvester UniFilter 96 Filtermate Packard . Membranes are harvested by rapid vacuum filtration and washed 3 times with 250 l of ice cold buffer PBS 0.01 Tween 20 pH 7.4 . Plates are air dried 50 l scintillation fluid Microscint 20 Packard is added and the plate is monitored for radioactivity using a TopCount NXT Packard Instruments IL .

Binding experiments are performed in buffer containing 10 mM HEPES 150 mM NaCl and 0.1 BSA pH 7.5. Membranes are incubated with 50 l I His D TyrGnRH 0.2 nM final concentration and 50 l of small molecule competitors at concentrations ranging from 30 pM to 10 M for a total volume in each well of 200 l. Incubations are carried out for 2 hrs at room temperature. The reaction is terminated by rapid filtration over GF C filters as previously described. Curve fitting is performed using Excel Fit Software IDBS Emeryville Calif. . The Kvalues are calculated using the method of Cheng and Prusoff Cheng and Prusoff 1973 using a Kd value of 0.7 nM for the radioligand which was previously determined in saturation binding experiments.

To determine the inhibition of GnRH stimulated calcium flux in cells expressing the human GnRH receptor a 96 well plate is seeded with RBL cells stably transfected with the human GnRH receptor at a density of 50 000 cells well and allowed to attach overnight. Cells are loaded for 1 hr at 37C in the following medium DMEM with mM HEPES 10 FBS 2 M Fluo 4 0.02 pluronic acid and 2.5 mM probenecid. Cells are washed 4 times with wash buffer Hanks balanced salt 20 mM HEPES 2.5 mM probenecid after loading leaving 150 l in the well after the last wash. GnRH is diluted in 0.1 BSA containing FLIPR buffer Hanks balanced salt 20 mM HEPES to a concentration of 20 nM and dispensed into a 96 well plate Low protein binding . Various concentrations of antagonists are prepared in 0.1 BSA FLIPR buffer in a third 96 well plate. Measurement of fluorescence due to GnRH stimulated 50 l of 20 nM or 4 nM final Ca flux is performed according to manufacturer s instructions on a FLIPR system Molecular Devices FLIPR384 system Sunnyvale Calif. following a 1 minute incubation with 50 l of antagonist at varying concentrations.

The procedure is modified from published protocols W. Zhou et al 270 32 pp18853 18857 1995 . Briefly RBL cells stably transfected with human GnRH receptors are seeded in 24 well plates at a density of 200 000 cell well for 24 hrs. Cells are washed once with inositol free medium containing 10 dialyzed FBS and then labeled with 1 uCi mL of myo H inositol. After 20 24 hrs cells are washed with buffer 140 nM NaCl 4 mM KCl 20 mM Hepes 8.3 mM glucose 1 mM MgCl 1 mM CaCland 0.1 BSA and treated with native GnRH peptide in the same buffer with or without various concentrations of antagonist and 10 mM LiCl for 1 hour at 37C. Cells are extracted with 10 mM formic acid at 4C for 30 min and loaded on a Dowex AG1 X8 column washed and eluted with 1 M ammonium formate and 0.1 M formic acid. The eluate is counted in a scintillation counter. Data from PI hydrolysis assay are plotted using non linear least square regression by the Prism program Graphpad GraphPad Software San Diego Calif. from which dose ratio is also calculated. The Schild linear plot is generated from the dose ratios obtained in four independent experiments by linear regression and the X intercept is used to determine the affinity of the antagonist.

Studies of castrate animals provide a sensitive in vivo assay for the effects of GnRH antagonist 25 141 147 1993 . GnRH receptors in the pituitary gland mediate GnRH stimulated LH release into the circulation. Castration results in elevated levels of circulating LH due to reduction of the negative feedback of gonadal steroids resulting in enhancement of GnRH stimulated LH release. Consequently measurement of suppression of circulating LH levels in castrated macaques can be used as a sensitive in vivo measure of GnRH antagonism. Therefore male macaques are surgically castrated and allowed to recover for four weeks at which point elevated levels of LH are present. Animals are then administered the test compound as an oral or i.v. dose and serial blood samples taken for measurement of LH. LH concentrations in serum from these animals can be determined by immunoassay or bioassay techniques 107 902 907 1980 .

The GnRH analog is labeled by the chloramine T method. To 10 g of peptide in 20 l of 0.5M sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.6 is added 1 mCi of NaI followed by 22.5 g chloramine T in 15 l 0.05M sodium phosphate buffer and the mixture is vortexed for 20 sec. The reaction is stopped by the addition of 60 g sodium metabisulfite in 30 l 0.05M sodium phosphate buffer and the free iodine is removed by passing the reaction mixture through a C 8 Sep Pak cartridge Millipore Corp. Milford Mass. . The peptide is eluted with a small volume of 80 acetonitrile water. The recovered labeled peptide is further purified by reverse phase HPLC on a Vydac C 18 analytical column The Separations Group Hesperia Calif. on a Beckman 334 gradient HPLC system using a gradient of acetonitrile in 0.1 TFA. The purified radioactive peptide is stored in 0.1 BSA 20 acetonitrile 0.1 TFA at 80C and can be used for up to 4 weeks.

For determination of the LH levels each sample medium is assayed in duplicates and all dilutions are done with RIA buffer 0.01M sodium phosphate buffer 0.15M NaCl 1 BSA 0.01 NaN3 pH 7.5 and the assay kit is obtained from the Nation Hormone and Pituitary Program supported by NIDDK. To a 12 75 mm polyethylene test tube is added 100 l of sample medium diluted 1 5 or rLH standard in RIA buffer and 100 l of 125I labeled rLH 30 000 cpm plus 100 l of rabbit anti rLH antibody diluted 1 187 500 and 100 l RIA buffer. The mixture is incubated at room temperature over night. In the next day 100 l of goat anti rabbit IgG diluted 1 20 and 100 l of normal rabbit serum diluted 1 1000 are added and the mixture incubated for another 3 hr at room temperature. The incubated tubes are then centrifuged at 3 000 rpm for 30 min and the supernatant removed by suction. The remaining pellet in the tubes is counted in a gamma counter. RIA of FSH is done in a similar fashion as the assay for LH with substitution of the LH antibody by the FSH antibody diluted 1 30 000 and the labeled rLH by the labeled rFSH.

Activity of GnRH receptor antagonists are typically calculated from the ICas the concentration of a compound necessary to displace 50 of the radiolabeled ligand from the GnRH receptor and is reported as a K value calculated by the following equation 

The ability of the GnRH antagonists to inhibit the major drug metabolizing enzymes in the human liver namely CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 can be evaluated in vitro according to a microtiter plate based fluorimetric method described by Crespi et al. 248 188 190 1997 . AMMC i.e. 3 2 N N Diethyl N methylammonium ethyl 7 methoxy 4 methylcoumarin and BFC i.e. 7 benzyloxy 4 trifluoromethyl coumarin at a concentration equal to Km that is the concentration of substrate that produces one half of the maximal velocity are used as marker substrates for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 respectively. Briefly recombinant CYP2D6 or CYP34 is incubated with marker substrate and NADPH generating system consisting of 1 mM NADP 46 mM glucose 6 phosphate and 3 units mL glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase at 37 C. in the absence or presence of 0.03 0.09 0.27 0.82 2.5 7.4 22 67 and 200 M of a sample GnRH antagonist. Reactions are stopped by the addition of an equal volume of acetonitrile. The precipitated protein is removed by centrifugation and the clear supernatant fluid is analyzed using a microtiter plate fluorimeter. GnRH antagonists of the present invention preferably have K s greater than 250 nM more preferably greater than 1 M and most preferably greater than 5 M.

As mentioned above the GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention have utility over a wide range of therapeutic applications and may be used to treat a variety of sex hormone related conditions in both men and women as well as mammals in general. For example such conditions include endometriosis uterine fibroids polycystic ovarian disease hirsutism precocious puberty gonadal steroid dependent neoplasia such as cancers of the prostate breast and ovary gonadotrophe pituitary adenomas sleep apnea irritable bowel syndrome premenstrual syndrome benign prostatic hypertrophy contraception and infertility e.g. assisted reproductive therapy such as in vitro fertilization .

The compounds of this invention are also useful as an adjunct to treatment of growth hormone deficiency and short stature and for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosis.

In addition the compounds are useful in combination with androgens estrogens progesterones and antiestrogens and antiprogestogens for the treatment of endometriosis fibroids and in contraception as well as in combination with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor an angiotensin TI receptor antagonist or a renin inhibitor for the treatment of uterine fibroids. The compounds may also be used in combination with bisphosphonates and other agents for the treatment and or prevention of disturbances of calcium phosphate and bone metabolism and in combination with estrogens progesterones and or androgens for the prevention or treatment of bone loss or hypogonadal symptoms such as hot flashes during therapy with a GnRH antagonist.

In another embodiment of the invention pharmaceutical compositions containing one or more GnRH receptor antagonists are disclosed. For the purposes of administration the compounds of the present invention may be formulated as pharmaceutical compositions. Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise a GnRH receptor antagonist of the present invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluent. The GnRH receptor antagonist is present in the composition in an amount which is effective to treat a particular disorder that is in an amount sufficient to achieve GnRH receptor antagonist activity and preferably with acceptable toxicity to the patient. Typically the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may include a GnRH receptor antagonist in an amount from 0.1 mg to 250 mg per dosage depending upon the route of administration and more typically from 1 mg to 60 mg. Appropriate concentrations and dosages can be readily determined by one skilled in the art.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluents are familiar to those skilled in the art. For compositions formulated as liquid solutions acceptable carriers and or diluents include saline and sterile water and may optionally include antioxidants buffers bacteriostats and other common additives. The compositions can also be formulated as pills capsules granules or tablets which contain in addition to a GnRH receptor antagonist diluents dispersing and surface active agents binders and lubricants. One skilled in this art may further formulate the GnRH receptor antagonist in an appropriate manner and in accordance with accepted practices such as those disclosed in Gennaro Ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1990.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating sex hormone related conditions as discussed above. Such methods include administering of a compound of the present invention to a warm blooded animal in an amount sufficient to treat the condition. In this context treat includes prophylactic administration. Such methods include systemic administration of a GnRH receptor antagonist of this invention preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition as discussed above. As used herein systemic administration includes oral and parenteral methods of administration. For oral administration suitable pharmaceutical compositions of GnRH receptor antagonists include powders granules pills tablets and capsules as well as liquids syrups suspensions and emulsions. These compositions may also include flavorants preservatives suspending thickening and emulsifying agents and other pharmaceutically acceptable additives. For parental administration the compounds of the present invention can be prepared in aqueous injection solutions which may contain in addition to the GnRH receptor antagonist buffers antioxidants bacteriostats and other additives commonly employed in such solutions.

The following example is provided for purposes of illustration not limitation. In summary the GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention may be assayed by the general methods disclosed above while the following Examples disclose the synthesis of representative compounds of this invention.

To 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzonitrile 45 g 0.238 mmol in 60 mL of THF was added 1 M BH THF slowly at 60 C. and the resulting solution was refluxed overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature. Methanol 420 mL was added slowly and stirred well. The solvents were then evaporated and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic layer was dried over NaSO. Evaporation gave a as a yellow oil 46 g 0.238 mmol . MS CI m z 194.0 MH .

To 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzylamine 1 51.5 g 0.267 mmol in a flask urea 64 g 1.07 mmol HCl conc. 30.9 mmol 0.374 mmol and water 111 mL were added. The mixture was refluxed for 6 hours. The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature further cooled with ice and filtered to give a yellow solid. Recrystallization with 400 mL of EtOAc gave 1as a white solid 46.2 g 0.196 mmol . MS CI m z 237.0 MH .

NaI 43.9 g 293 mmol was added to N 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl urea 1 46.2 g 19.6 mmol in 365 mL of acetonitrile. The resulting mixture was cooled in an ice water bath. Diketene 22.5 mL 293 mmol was added slowly via dropping funnel followed by addition of TMSCl 37.2 mL 293 mmol in the same manner. The resulting yellow suspension was allowed to warm to room temperature slowly and was stirred for 20 hours. LC MS showed the disappearance of starting material. To the yellow mixture 525 mL of water was added and stirred overnight. After another 20 hours stirring the precipitate was filtered via Buchnner funnel and the yellow solid was washed with water and EtOAc to give 1as a white solid 48.5 g 16 mmol . H NMR CDCl 2.15 s 3H 5.37 s 2H 5.60 s 1H 7.23 7.56 m 3H 9.02 s 1H MS CI m z 303.0 MH .

Bromine 16.5 mL 0.32 mmol was added to 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl 6 methylpyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1 48.5 g 0.16 mol in 145 mL of acetic acid. The resulting mixture became clear then formed precipitate within an hour. After 2 hours stirring the yellow solid was filtered and washed with cold EtOAc to an almost white solid. The filtrate was washed with sat. NaHCOand dried over NaSO. Evaporation gave a yellow solid which was washed with EtOAC to give a light yellow solid. The two solids were combined to give 59.4 g of 1 0.156 mol total. H NMR CDCl 2.4 s 3H 5.48 s 2H 7.25 7.58 m 3H 8.61 s 1H MS CI m z 380.9 MH 

5 Bromo 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methylpyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1. was made using the same procedure.

To 5 bromo 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl 6 methylpyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1 15 g 39.4 mmol in 225 mL of THF were added N t Boc D phenylglycinol 11.7 g 49.2 mmol and triphenylphosphine 15.5 g 59.1 mmol followed by addition of di tert butyl azodicarboxylate 13.6 g 59.1 mmol . The resulting yellow solution was stirred overnight. The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was purified by silica gel with 3 7 EtOAc Hexane to give 1as a white solid 23.6 g 39.4 mmol . MS CI m z 500.0 MH Boc .

To 5 bromo 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl 6 methyl 3 2 R tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylethyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1 15 g 25 mmol in 30 mL 90 mL of HO dioxane in a pressure tube were added 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid 4.25 g 25 mmol and sodium carbonate 15.75 g 150 mmol . Ngas was bubbled through for 10 min. Tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 2.9 g 2.5 mmol was added the tube was sealed and the resulting mixture was heated with stirring at 90 C. overnight. After cooling to ambient temperature the precipitate was removed by filtration. The volatiles were removed by evaporation and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc sat. NaHCO. The organic solvent was evaporated and the residue was chromatographed with 2 3 EtOAc Hexane to give 13.4 g 20.8 mmol 83 yellow solid.

This yellow solid 6.9 g 10.7 mmol was dissolved in 20 mL 20 mL CHCl TFA. The resulting yellow solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc sat. NaHCO. The organic phase was dried over NaSO. Evaporation gave 1as a yellow oil 4.3 g 7.9 mmol 74 . H NMR CDCl 2.03 s 3H 3.72 4.59 m 6 5.32 5.61 m 2H 6.74 7.56 m 11H MS CI m z 546.0 MH .

3 2 R amino 2 phenylethyl 5 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenyl 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 11 was made using the same procedure described in this example.

To compound 3 2 R amino 2 phenylethyl 5 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenyl 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl 6 methyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1f 5 g 9.4 mmol in 100 mL of acetonitrile were added ethyl 4 bromobutyrate 4 mL 28.2 mmol and Hunig s base 1.6 mL 9.4 mmol . After reflux at 95 C. overnight the reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and the volatiles were removed. The residue was chromatographed with 10 10 1 EtOAc Hexane EtN to give 1as a yellow oil 3.0 g 4.65 mmol . MS CI m z 646.2 MH .

Compound 3 2 R ethoxycarbonylpropyl amino 2 phenylethyl 5 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenyl 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl 6 methyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1 2.6 g 4.0 mmol was dissolved in 30 mL 30 mL of THF water. Solid NaOH 1.6 g 40 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was heated at 50 C. overnight. The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and the volatiles were evaporated. Citric acid was added to the aqueous solution until pH 3. Extraction with EtOAc followed by evaporation of solvent gave 1.96 g of a white gel. The gel was passed through a Dowex MSC 1 macroporous strong cation exchange column to convert to sodium salt. Lypholization gave white solid 1 1 as the sodium salt 1.58 g 2.47 mmol . H NMR CDOD 1.69 1.77 m 2H 2.09 s 3H 2.09 2.19 t J 7.35 Hz 2H 2.49 2.53 t J 7.35H 2H 3.88 s 3H 4.15 4.32 m 3H 5.36 5.52 m 2H 6.60 7.63 m 11H HPLC MS CI m z 632.2 MH t 26.45 method 5 

To compound 1 1 0.045 mmol in 1 mL MeOH formaldehyde 0.0475 mmol was added followed by addition of 8 M BH Pyridine 0.0475 mmol . After overnight shaking compound 1 4 was purified by prep. LC MS. HPLC MS CI m z 646.5 MH t 2.231 method 4 

5 Bromo 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl 6 methyl 3 2 R tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylethyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1was dissolved in 20 mL 20 mL CHCl TFA. The resulting yellow solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc sat. NaHCO. The organic phase was dried over NaSO. Evaporation gave 2as a yellow oil.

To compound 2 40 mg 0.08 mmol in 0.25 mL 0.75 mL of HO dioxane in a 4 mL vial was added 2 chlorophenyl boronic acid 0.12 mmol and sodium carbonate 51 mg 0.48 mmol 6 eq . Nitrogen gas was bubbled through the solution for 1 minute and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 9.24 mg 0.008 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was sealed and heated at 90 C. overnight. After cooling to ambient temperature the precipitate was removed by filtration and was purified by prep. LC MS to give 2

To compound 2 0.03 mmol in 1 mL MeOH succinic semialdehyde 0.03 mmol was added followed by addition of 8 M BH Pyridine 0.03 mmol . After overnight shaking the compound 2 1 was purified by prep. LC MS. MS CI m z 618.2 MH t 1.005 method 1 

Compound 1 110 mg 0.2 mmol was dissolved in acetonitrile 5 mL and diisopropylethyl amine 52 mg 0.4 mmol was added followed by the addition of 4 bromobutyronitrile 90 mg 0.6 mmol . The reaction mixture was refluxed for 16 hours. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography silica 5 MeOH CHCl to give compound 3 115 mg 94 . MS CI m z 613.3 MH .

A solution of 3 38 g 0.06 mmol in toluene 5 mL was added tributyltin azide 42 mg 0.12 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 14 hours. The mixture was cooled partitioned between EtOAc and 1 N NaOH and the organic layer was washed with 1 N HCl and brine. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography silica 7 MeOH CHCl to give compound 3 1 10 mg 25 . HPLC MS CI m z 656.2 MH t 2.128 min method 4 

A solution of N t butyloxycarbonyl cyclohexylglycine 2.0 g 7.77 mmol in anhydrous THF 10 mL was cooled to 0 C. Borane solution 1 M in THF 15.5 mL 15.5 mmol was added slowly and the reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 hours. The reaction was quenched with MeOH 5 mL volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between water and EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with saturated NaHCO water brine dried sodium sulfate and evaporated to give tert butyl 1 cyclohexyl 2 hydroxyethylcarbamate 4 1.26 g 66.7 MS CI m z 144.2 MH Boc .

A solution of tert butyl 1 cyclohexyl 2 hydroxyethylcarbamate 4 638 mg 2.62 mmol in THF 10 mL was treated with 5 bromo 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methylpyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1. 869 mg 2.62 mmol and triphenylphosphine 1.03 g 3.93 mmol at ambient temperature then di tert butylazodicarboxylate 906 mg 3.93 mmol was introduced. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 16 hours and volatiles were evaporated. The residue was partitioned between saturated NaHCO HO and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by flash chromatography silica 25 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 4 1.39 g 95.4 . MS CI m z 456.1 458.1 MH Boc .

5 Bromo 3 2 R tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 cyclohexylethyl 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 4 1.0 g 1.79 mmol in benzene EtOH ethylene glycol dimethyl ether 20 2 22 mL was added 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid 382 mg 2.24 mmol and saturated Ba OH water 0.5 M 15 mL . The reaction mixture was deoxygenated with Nfor 10 minutes tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 208 mg 0.18 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. overnight under N. The reaction mixture was partitioned between brine and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by flash chromatography silica 30 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 4 348 mg 32.3 . MS CI m z 502.2 MH Boc .

To compound 4 300 mg 0.5 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added TFA 2 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between saturated NaHCO water and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated purified by reverse phase HPLC C 18 column 15 75 ACN water to give compound 4. MS CI m z 502.2 MH .

A solution of compound 4 10 mg 0.02 mmol in methanol 2 mL was added succinic semialdehyde 15 mg 15 aqueous solution followed by the addition of borane pyridine 8 M 3 L . The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was purified directly on preparative TLC plate eluting with 7 MeOH CHClto give compound 4 1 5 mg . MS CI m z 588.3 MH .

3 2 R hydroxycarbonylpropyl amino 2 cyclohexylethyl 5 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenyl 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl 6 methyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 4 2 was synthesized using the same procedure and intermediate 1d.

A suspension of 5 bromouracil 31.0 g in 300 mL of dichloroethane is treated with N O bis trimethylsilyl acetamide 80 mL . The reaction mixture is heated under nitrogen. The solution is cooled to ambient temperature 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl bromide 50 g is added and the reaction mixture is heated overnight under the nitrogen. The reaction is cooled quenched with MeOH and partitioned between dichloromethane and water. The organic layer is washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and evaporated to give a solid. The crude product is triturated with ether filtered and washed with ether three times providing 40.7 g of 5 bromo 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 5. MS CI m z 366.0 368.0 MH .

A solution of 5 bromo 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 5 19.2 g 52.3 mmol in THF 180 mL was treated with N t butyloxycarbonyl D phenylglycinol 13.6 g 57.5 mmol and triphenylphosphine 20.6 g 78.5 mmol at room temperature then di tert butylazodicarboxylate 18.0 g 78.5 mmol was introduced in several portions over 5 minutes. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hour additional THF 90 mL was added and the mixture was heated to 50 C. Concentrated HCl 34.6 mL 418 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 40 hours. After dilution with ethyl acetate 100 mL the solid was filtered washed with additional ethyl acetate 100 mL and dried to give compound 5 26.9 g 98 as a white powder. MS CI m z 485.0 487.0 MH .

To compound 5 10.45 g 20 mmol in dioxane water 180 20 mL was added 2 chlorophenylboronic acid 6.26 g 40 mmol and NaCO 12.72 g 120 mmol . The mixture was deoxygenated with Nfor 15 minutes tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 2.31 g 2 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 90 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was partitioned between EtOAc and HO. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes triethylamine 500 500 6 to 800 200 7 to afford compound 5 7.26 g 70 as a white foam. MS CI m z 518.0 520.1 MH .

A mixture of compound 5 4.1 g 7.93 mmol ethyl 4 bromobutyrate 3.6 mL 23.79 mmol and KCO 2.2 g 15.86 mmol in MeCN 80 mL was refluxed for 16 hours. MeCN was removed and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc and HO. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes triethylamine 400 600 7 to afford compound 5 2.5 g 50 as a yellowish syrup. MS CI m z 632.2 634.2 MH .

To compound 5 2.4 g 3.8 mmol was added THF 30 mL and HO 30 mL followed by NaOH 1.588 g 39.7 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 16 hours. THF was removed in vacuo the aq. solution was washed with ether and cooled at 0 C. Neutralization with 10 aq. citric acid 26.0 mL 40.6 mmol gave a precipitate which was washed with HO and dried to give compound 5 1 1.88 g 82 . HPLC MS CI m z 604.1 606.1 MH t 2.511 method 4 t 26.98 method 5 

To 2 chlorophenylacetic acid 1.04 g 6 mmol in MeOH 25 mL was added sulfuric acid 6 drops and the solution was refluxed for 16 hours. After concentration the residue was taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with sat d aq. NaHCO HO and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated to give methyl 2 chlorophenyl acetate 6 1.08 g 97.5 as a yellowish oil. GCMS EI m z 184 186 M .

A solution of methyl 2 chlorophenyl acetate 6 1.08 g 5.85 mmol in DMFDMA 10 mL 70.8 mmol was refluxed for 16 hours. After evaporation the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 3 to 1 2 to afford unreacted methyl 2 chlorophenyl acetate 6 0.67 g 62 first and then methyl 2 2 chlorophenyl 3 dimethylamino acrylate6 0.38 g 27 71 based on recovered starting material as a colorless syrup. MS CI m z 240.2 242.2 MH .

To a mixture of methyl 2 2 chlorophenyl 3 dimethylamino acrylate 6 0.26 g 1.08 mmol urea 0.2 g 3.26 mmol and NaI 0.49 g 3.26 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL was added TMSCl 0.41 mL 3.26 mmol . The resulting mixture was refluxed for 16 hours cooled to room temperature and 1.0 M NaOH 8 mL was added. The resultant solution was stirred for 20 hr and acetonitrile was removed in vacuo. The aq. solution was washed with ether cooled in ice bath and neutralized with 1 N HCl 8 mL . The precipitate was filtered washed with additional HO and dried to give 5 2 chlorophenyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 6 0.16 g 66 as a white solid. MS CI m z 222.9 224.9 MH .

To a suspension of 5 2 chlorophenyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 6 0.16 g 0.72 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL was added bis trimethylsilyl acetamide 0.36 mL 1.44 mmol and the resulting solution was refluxed for 1.5 hours. After cooling to room temperature 2 fluoro 3 trifluoromethylbenzyl bromide 0.22 g 0.86 mmol was added and reflux was resumed for 16 hours. The reaction was quenched by addition of MeOH 5 mL and stirring for 2 hours. After concentration the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 1 to afford 5 2 chlorophenyl 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 6 0.25 g 87 as a white solid. MS CI m z 398.9 400.9 MH .

A mixture of 5 2 chlorophenyl 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 6 125 mg 0.32 mmol KCO 130 mg 0.96 mmol and N t butyloxycarbonyl D phenylglycinol mesylate 0.2 g 0.64 mmol in DMF 3 mL was heated at 75 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with HO and brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 2 3 to afford compound 6 144 mg 74 . MS CI m z 518.0 520.0 MH Boc .

To a solution of compound 6 0.144 g 0.23 mmol in DCM 1 mL was added TFA 0.5 mL 6.5 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours. After concentration the residue was taken up in DCM and sat d aq. NaHCOwas added. The aqueous layer was extracted with DCM. Combined organic extracts were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give compound 6 0.12 g . MS CI m z 518.0 520.1 MH .

A solution of compound 6 0.1 g 0.19 mmol and succinic semialdehyde 15 wt solution in water 0.13 mL 0.21 mmol in MeCN was stirred at room temperature for 5 minutes. Borane pyridine complex 8 M 72 L was added and stirred for 16 hours. After concentration the residue was purified first on prep TLC plate and then by prep LCMS to give compound 6 1. HPLC MS CI m z 604.1 606.1 MH t 26.98 method 5 t 2.511 method 4 

To a suspension of 3 hydroxybenzaldehyde 20.12 g 160 mmol in HOAc 40 mL was added carefully tBuOCl 20 mL 176 mmol with stirring. The reaction became a clear solution and strongly exothermic. It was allowed to cool and stirred for 16 hours resulting in a white precipitate. The solid was filtered washed with HO and dried to give 2 chloro 3 hydroxybenzaldehyde 13.77 g 55 GCMS EI m z 156 158 M .

To a solution of 2 chloro 3 hydroxybenzaldehyde 4.55 g 29 mmol in DMF 30 mL was added KCO 4.8 g 34.9 mmol followed by MeI 2.7 mL 43.6 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. Following concentration in vacuo the residual was taken up in ethyl acetate washed with HO brine dried over NaSO and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 5 afforded 2 chloro 3 methoxybenzaldehyde 7 4.68 g 94 as a colorless oil which solidified upon standing. GCMS EI m z 170 172 M .

To a solution of 2 chloro 3 methoxybenzaldehyde 7 4.65 g 27.3 mmol and methyl methylthio methyl sulfoxide 4.3 mL 43.9 mmol in THF 25 mL was added a 40 methanolic solution of Triton B 6.2 mL 13.6 mmol and the resulting solution was refluxed for 16 hours. After THF was removed the residue was taken up in ethyl acetate washed with 1 N HCl HO and brine then was dried over NaSO and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel with dichloromethane afforded 2 chloro 1 methoxy 3 2 methylsulfanyl 2 methylsulfinyl vinyl benzene 7 3.61 g 48 as a yellow oil. GCMS EI m z 225 M Cl16 210 M Cl OMe .

To a solution of 2 chloro 1 methoxy 3 2 methylsulfanyl 2 methylsulfinyl vinyl benzene 7 3.58 g 12.9 mmol in ethanol 20 mL was added a 5 M ethanolic solution of HCl 5.2 mL and the resulting solution was refluxed for 3 hours. After evaporation the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with dichloromethane to afford ethyl 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl acetate 7 2.78 g 94 as a yellow oil. GCMS EI m z 228 230 M .

A solution of ethyl 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl acetate 7 2.78 g 12 mmol in DMFDMA 16 mL 120 mmol was refluxed for 16 hours. After evaporation the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 2 to 1 1 to afford unreacted ethyl 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl acetate 7 1.8 g 65 first and then ethyl 2 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl 3 dimethylamino acrylate 7 1.1 g 32 90 based on recovered starting material as a yellow syrup. MS CI m z 284.0 286.0 MH .

To a mixture of ethyl 2 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl 3 dimethylamino acrylate 7 1.7 g 6 mmol urea 1.08 g 18 mmol and NaI 2.7 g 18 mmol in acetonitrile 20 mL was added TMSCl 2.3 mL 18 mmol . The resulting mixture was refluxed for 16 hours cooled to room temperature and 1.0 M NaOH 30 mL was added. The resultant solution was stirred for 20 hours and acetonitrile was removed in vacuo. The aqueous solution was washed with ether cooled in ice bath and neutralized with 1 N HCl 30 mL . The precipitate was filtered washed with additional HO and dried to give 5 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 7 1.24 g 82 as a pale yellow solid. MS CI m z 253.1 255.1 MH .

To a suspension of 5 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 7 2.2 g 8.7 mmol in acetonitrile 25 mL was added bis trimethylsilyl acetamide 4.3 mL 17.4 mmol and the resulting solution was refluxed for 1.5 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature 2 fluoro 3 trifluoromethylbenzyl bromide 2.7 g 10.5 mmol was added and reflux was resumed for 16 hours. The reaction was quenched by addition of MeOH 25 mL and stirring for 2 hours. After concentration the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 1 to afford 5 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl 1 1 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 7 3.3 g 88 as a white solid. MS CI m z 429.0 431.0 MH .

A mixture of 5 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 7 75 mg 0.175 mmol KCO 72 mg 0.525 mmol and N t butyloxycarbonyl D phenylglycinol mesylate 0.11 g 0.35 mmol in DMF 2 mL was heated at 75 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with HO and brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 2 3 to afford compound 7 82 mg 72 as a white solid. MS CI m z 548.0 550.0 MH Boc .

Compound 7 2.7 g 4.2 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 10 mL TFA 14 mL 175 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4.5 hours. After concentration the residue was taken up in DCM and saturated aqueous NaHCOwas added. The aq. layer was extracted with DCM. Combined organic extracts were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give compound 7 2.2 g 96 . MS CI m z 548.0 550.0 MH .

3 2 R amino 2 phenylethyl 5 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 7.1 was prepared by substitution of the appropriate starting material using the procedures provided above.

To a solution of compound 7 2.0 g 3.65 mmol in DMF 8 mL was added NaCO 0.47 g 4.38 mmol followed by ethyl 4 bromobutyrate 0.83 mL 5.48 mmol . The mixture was heated at 95 C. for 1.5 hours cooled to room temperature and partitioned between ethyl acetate and HO. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes triethylamine 500 500 5 to afford compound 7 1.29 g as a white solid. MS CI m z 662.2 664.2 MH 

To compound 7 0.7 g 1.06 mmol was added THF 6 mL and HO 6 mL followed by NaOH 0.17 g 4.24 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 16 hours. THF was removed in vacuo the aq. solution was washed with ether and cooled at 0 C. Neutralization with 5 aq. citric acid 6.0 mL 4.7 mmol gave a precipitate which was collected and further purified by column chromatography on silica gel with MeOH DCM triethylamine 8 100 2 to afford compound 7 1 0.56 g 84 as a white solid. HPLC MS CI m z 634.2 636.2 MH t 24.925 method 5 

To a solution of N t butyloxycarbonyl D leucinol 1.21 g 5.57 mmol in pyridine 6 mL was added tosyl chloride 1.6 g 8.35 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours diluted with EtOAc and washed sequentially with 1 N HCl HO sat d aq. NaHCOand brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 3 to afford 3 methyl 1 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl oxy methyl butyl 1 1 dimethylethyl carbamic ester 1.66 g 80 MS CI m z 272.2 MH Boc .

A mixture of 5 2 chloro 3 methoxyphenyl 1 2 fluoro 6 trifluoromethyl benzyl pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 7 56 mg 0.13 mmol KCO 754 mg 0.39 mmol and 3 methyl 1 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl oxy methyl butyl 1 1 dimethylethyl carbamic ester 97 mg 0.26 mmol in DMF 2 mL was heated at 95 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with HO and brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes 1 1 to afford recovered 3 methyl 1 4 methylphenyl sulfonyl oxy methyl butyl 1 1 dimethylethyl carbamic ester 30 mg 54 and compound 8 30 mg 37 MS CI m z 528.0 530.0 MH Boc .

To a solution of compound 8 30 mg 0.048 mmol in DCM 1 mL was added TFA 0.1 mL 1.3 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours. After concentration the residue was taken up in DCM and sat d aq. NaHCOwas added. The aq. layer was extracted with DCM. Combined organic extracts were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give compound 8. MS CI m z 528.0 530.0 MH .

To a solution of compound 8 25 mg 0.048 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added KCO 21 mg 0.15 mmol followed by ethyl 4 bromobutyrate 0.015 mL 0.1 mmol . The mixture was heated at 95 C. for 16 hours cooled to room temperature and partitioned between ethyl acetate and HO. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexanes triethylamine 500 500 5 to afford compound 8. MS CI m z 642.2 644.2 MH .

To compound 8 10 mg 0.016 mmol was added THF 0.3 mL and HO 0.3 mL followed by NaOH 6.4 mg 0.16 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 16 hours and purified by prep LCMS to give compound 8 1. MS CI m z 614.1 616.1 MH t 6.550 min method 6 

A solution of 7.1 2.59 g 5 mmol in CHCN 25 mL was added diisopropylethyl amine 2.61 mL 15 mmol followed by the addition of 4 bromobutyronitrile 2.22 g 15 mmol . The reaction mixture was refluxed for 16 hours. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography silica 4 MeOH CHCl to give compound 9 2.62 g 95.5 . MS CI m z 549.1 MH .

A solution of 9 274 mg 0.5 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added sodium azide 97 mg 1.5 mmol and ammonium chloride 120 mg 2.25 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 110 C. for 12 hours. The mixture was cooled partitioned between EtOAc and saturated NaHCO water washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and evaporated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica 6 MeOH CHCl to give compound 9 1 52 mg 17.6 . HPLC MS CI m z 592.3 MH t 2.150 method 4 

To a solution of compound 1f.1 28 g 56 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL was added a solution of di tert butyldicarbonate 12 g 56 mmol in dichloromethane 100 mL dropwise through an addition funnel. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated by vacuum to yield the desired product 10as a light yellow solid 33 g 56 mmol 100 . HPLC MS CI m z 496.1 M H Boc t 3.052 method 4 

To a solution of compound 10 33 g 56 mmol in dry DMSO 100 mL was added sodium thiomethoxide 4.0 g 56 mmol under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was heated to 100C under nitrogen for 1 hour. Another 0.28 eq. of sodium thiomethoxide 1.1 g 16 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated to 100C under nitrogen for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled and partitioned between ethyl ether and water. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and brine dried with sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified with a flash chromatography on silica gel eluted with 50 ethyl acetate in hexane to yield compound 10as a pale yellow solid 27 g 44 mmol 78 . HPLC MS CI m z 524.1 M H Boc t 3.134 method 4 . H NMR CDCl 1.38 s 9H 2.07 s 3H 2.51 s 3H 3.90 s 3H 4.07 4.13 m 1H 4.29 4.39 m 1H 5.30 5.53 m 2H 5.79 5.85 m 1H 6.80 6.91 m 2H 6.70 dd 1H 7.06 7.15 m 2H 7.22 7.41 m 6 .

To a solution of compound 10 27 g 44 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 400 mL was added 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid mCPBA 30 g 180 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane and water. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and brine dried with sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified with a by chromatography on silica gel eluting with 50 ethyl acetate in hexane to yield the desired product compound 10as a pale yellow solid 15 g 24 mmol 53 . HPLC MS CI m z 556.0 M H Boc t 2.941 method 4 . H NMR CDCl 1.38 s 9H 2.27 brs 3H 3.48 s 3H 3.92 s 3H 4.01 4.15 m 1H 4.24 4.40 m 1H 4.95 5.05 m 1H 5.58 5.68 m 2H 6.85 6.91 dd 1H 7.02 dd 1H 7.14 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.19 7.55 m 7 7.97 d J 7.6 Hz 1H .

To a solution of compound 10 10 g 15 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 60 mL was added trifluoroacetic acid TFA 16 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and partitioned between ethyl acetate and diluted aqueous NaOH solution. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and brine dried with sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to yield 10 1 as a tan solid 8.0 g 14 mmol 94 . HPLC MS CI m z 556.2 M H t 2.354 method 4 . H NMR CDCl 2.25 s 3H 3.42 s 1.5H 3.43 s 1.5H 3.91 s 1.5H 3.92 s 1.5H 3.98 4.22 m 2H 4.33 4.38 m 1H 5.60 brs 2H 6.80 6.89 m 1H 6.97 7.03 m 1H 7.11 7.17 m 1H 7.22 7.37 m 6 7.46 7.54 m 1H 7.95 dd 1H .

3 9 bis 2 Cyanoethyl 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5 5 undecane 5.38 g 20 mmol azidotrimethylsilane 10.6 mL 80 mmol and dibutyl tin oxide 2.48 g 4 mmol were suspended in 40 mL toluene and 40 mL dioxane and heated at reflux for 18 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and diluted with 100 mL hexane. The solid precipitate was collected washed with hexane 2 30 mL and dried in air. The solid was suspended in 100 mL 5 sodium carbonate solution enough ethyl acetate was added to dissolve most of the solid and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The layers were separated the aqueous layer was washed with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL and the organic layers were back extracted with 5 sodium carbonate 1 50 mL . The aqueous layers were combined acidified to pH 7 with concentrated hydrochloric acid filtered through Celite and acidified to pH 3. The solid was collected washed with water 2 50 mL and acetone 2 50 mL and dried under vacuum to give 5 5 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5 5 undecane 3 9 diylbis ethane 2 1 diyl bis 1H tetrazole 11a 4.71 g 67 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 4.56 t 2H J 5 Hz 4.28 dd 2H J 9 2 Hz 3.58 d 2H J 11 Hz 3.57 dd 2H J 11 2 Hz 3.36 d 2H J 11 Hz 2.94 t 4H J 7.5 Hz 1.97 dt 4H J 8 4 Hz .

A 25 mg sample of 5 5 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5 5 undecane 3 9 diylbis ethane 2 1 diyl bis 1H tetrazole 11a 70 mol and p toluenesulfonic acid 20 mg 100 mol were suspended in 1 mL of water and heated at 80 C. for 18 hours. The solution was cooled and added to compound 10 1 29 mg 50 mol dissolved in 1 mL ethanol and 17 uL triethylamine 100 mol . . . Borane pyridine complex 24 L 240 mol was then added and the mixture stirred 0.25 hours until bubbling ceased. The volatiles were removed and the residue taken up in 2 mL ethyl acetate and washed with water 1 0.5 mL . The ethyl acetate layer was evaporated and purified by preparative LC MS to give 5 mg 12 yield .

It will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

