---

title: Virtual address bar user interface control
abstract: A virtual address bar user interface control is presented. The virtual address bar includes a plurality of interactive segments, each segment corresponding to a predetermined filter for selecting content in a computer file system. Collectively, the interactive segments represent a virtual address for selecting content. Selecting an interactive segment in the virtual address bar causes those segments subsequent to the selected segment to be removed from the virtual address bar. A user may select a peer filter for a segment to replace that segment's current filter and removes those segments subsequent to the updated segment. The virtual address bar can be selectively configured to operate as a conventional address bar, and reconfigured to operate as a virtual address bar. Additional filter segments are added to the end of the existing filter segments. Those existing filter segments that conflict with the added segment are removed from the virtual address bar.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08209624&OS=08209624&RS=08209624
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08209624
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
This application is a divisional of prior U.S. application Ser. No. 10 420 040 filed Apr. 17 2003 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to graphical user interface controls and in particular to a graphical user interface control for navigating within a computer file system.

As users navigate within a file system on a computer a conventional graphical interface control referred to as an address bar shows the users where they are in the file system hierarchy. The conventional address bar shows the current location in terms of the file system s hierarchical structure of folders subfolders and files. Altering the user s location displayed in the conventional address bar is typically performed in one of two manners. The first is to manually edit the address in the address bar. Manually editing the address in the address bar permits a user to relocate to any number of locations in the file system hierarchy but requires the user to have specific information regarding the organization of the file system on the computer i.e. a specific file system location. The second method involves using external navigation tools which when manipulated update the address bar to reflect the new address or location. While bypassing the manual edit of the address in the address bar manipulating external navigation tools still requires the user to have specific information concerning the organization of the file system and traverse the hierarchical structure. However conventional address bars cannot reference files or data stored among multiple file system locations such as folders or drives due to a one to one relationship between the address in the address bar and a specific location in the file system hierarchy.

The prior art lacks an address bar that allows users to specify addresses that display files stored among multiple file system locations. The prior art further lacks an address bar that also permits users to easily modify the address of the address bar without manually editing the address or requiring specific knowledge concerning the organization of the underlying file system. Also lacking in the prior art is an address bar that presents alternative selections of files to the user from which the user may select to navigate to those selections of files. Such an address bar could also selectively present a conventional address bar interface to the user enabling the user to interact with the address bar according to previous experience according to user preferences.

A virtual address bar for selecting content stored on a computer file system is provided. A virtual address bar comprises a plurality of segments. Each segment corresponds to a filter for selecting content stored on the computer file system. Collectively the corresponding filters of each segment in the virtual address bar represent a virtual address for selecting content stored on a computer file system.

Each segment is an interactive segment that can respond to user interactions to modify the virtual address of the virtual address bar. Selecting a segment in the virtual address bar causes those segments subsequent to the selected segment to be removed from the virtual address bar. Alternatively selecting a segment in the virtual address bar causes a list of selectable peer filters to be displayed to the user. The peer filters are peers to the alternatively selected segment s corresponding filter. Selecting one of the peer filters causes the alternatively selected segment to replace its corresponding filter with the selected peer filter. Additionally those segments subsequent to the alternatively selected filter segment are removed from the virtual address bar.

Segments may be added to the virtual address bar according to external user actions. Segments are added at the end of the segments in the virtual address bar. Any segments that conflict with an added segment are removed. An existing segment in the virtual address bar conflicts with the added segment when the existing segment is mutually exclusive to the added segment. An existing segment in the virtual address bar also conflicts with the added segment when the existing segment is broader or narrower in scope than the added segment.

While aspects of the invention may be described in terms of application programs that run on an operating system in conjunction with a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that those aspects also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a conventional personal computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples the system memory to the processing unit . The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the personal computer such as during startup is stored in ROM . The personal computer further includes a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive e.g. to read from or write to a removable disk and an optical disk drive e.g. for reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage for the personal computer . Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a CD ROM disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media that are readable by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges ZIP disks and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.

A number of program modules may be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer through input devices such as a keyboard or a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone touchpad joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces not shown such as a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A display device is also connected to the system bus via a display subsystem that typically includes a graphics display interface and a code module sometimes referred to as a display driver to interface with the graphics display interface. While illustrated as a stand alone device the display device could be integrated into the housing of the personal computer . Furthermore in other computing systems suitable for implementing the invention such as a personal digital assistant PDA the display could be overlaid with a touch screen. In addition to the elements illustrated in personal computers also typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers or printers.

The personal computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a server a router a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the personal computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the personal computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface . When used in a WAN networking environment the personal computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the user input interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the personal computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. In addition the LAN and WAN may be used as a source of nonvolatile storage for the system.

The exemplary networked computing environment may also include one or more remote servers such as server that stores files accessible to the computing device and connected to the computing device via a communications network such as the Internet as shown in . In addition the computing device may also be connected to other information sources storing files or other content such as a remote database . Those skilled in the art will recognize that files and information stored on both the remote server and the remote database as well as on local storage devices such as hard disk drive may be accessible to and displayable on the computing device as part of an integrated file system on the computing device. Additionally while a particular configuration of a remote server and remote database is presented in those skilled in the art will readily recognize that this particular configuration is for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as limiting upon the present invention.

An address in the conventional address bar corresponds to a specific location in a file system. As previously described in order to edit the address displayed in the conventional address bar a user must modify the address according to specific knowledge of the file system. Alternatively a user may select an entry in a tree view to navigate to an alternative location. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other controls external to the address bar may also be available that are not shown in the exemplary file view . While the address displayed in the conventional address bar corresponds to a specific location in a file system related files distributed among multiple folders in the file system cannot be displayed in conjunction with the conventional address bar .

Similar to a conventional address such as address of the virtual address s selection criteria may reference files stored in a specific location in the file system hierarchy. However in contrast to a conventional address the virtual address s selection criteria may also reference files irrespective of their specific file system location. Thus a virtual address may reference files stored in multiple locations in a computer file system. As shown in the file viewer according to the virtual address in the virtual address bar is able to display additional files such as files and not found in the file viewer of . Additionally the virtual address bar may also be utilized to display content other than files in a computer file system. For example the virtual address bar may be used to reference content including system devices system services or Internet locations.

The first segment in a virtual address bar such as segment is referred to as a root segment or root filter. The root segment represents the broadest category of content available for selection by the virtual address bar . For example segment Files would likely represent a filter that references all files accessible the computer file system. Alternatively a root segment may represent a filter that references all system services available to the user on the computer system or a filter that references all hardware devices installed in the computer system. Those skilled in the art will recognize that numerous other alternative root filters may be utilized by the present invention. Thus the above described examples are given for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting upon the present invention. Additionally the labels displayed for each segment such as Files on the root segment are illustrative and should not be construed as limiting upon the present invention. According to one embodiment a label displayed on a segment is user configurable.

Each additional segment in a virtual address bar such as segments and represent additional filters to be applied when selecting and displaying files or content in a file viewer . For example root segment Files references all files available to the computer system. Segment Document Library filters the files selected by the root segment by selecting those files that were generated as documents by the user such as through a word processor spreadsheet or some other document generating application. Segment Word Documents filters the files selected by segment according to those documents that were generated using a word processor such as Microsoft Corporation s Word application. Finally segment Author A filters the word processing documents selected by segment according to whether they were authored by Author A. Thus content selected according to the virtual address represented in the virtual address bar must satisfy the filters corresponding to all of the segments in the virtual address bar.

Segments in the virtual address bar are generally ordered from those filters that are most inclusive to those filters that are least inclusive. For example as previously discussed segment Files is the broadest and most inclusive. Segments Word Documents and segment Author A are less inclusive. The virtual address bar illustrates the ordering of segments from left to right and for purposes of the present discussion segments and are subsequent to the root segment . However it should be understood that other orientations are possible such as a top down arrangement without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the orientation from left to right should be viewed as illustrative and not construed as limiting on the present invention.

As previously mentioned segments in a virtual address bar such as segments and do not necessarily correspond to specific locations in a computer file system such as folders drives and directories. Thus segment Document Library may reference files or content distributed on multiple servers drives or folders directories. However certain segments in a virtual address bar may reference specific locations with a computer file system hierarchy. A further discussion of virtual address segments referencing specific file system locations is given below in regard to .

In contrast to a conventional address bar each segment in a virtual address bar represents an actionable interactive user interface element. For example a segment in a virtual address bar is responsive to user selection monitors whether a cursor is located over the segment for a specific period of time and may be removed from the virtual address bar by a dragging user interaction. Hence as shown in a user may place a cursor over a segment in the virtual address bar such as segment Document Library to select or click on that segment in order to navigate to that level i.e. truncate the virtual address at that segment as described in regard to .

In addition to selecting segments in a virtual address bar to navigate to a less restrictive segment a user may also wish to navigate to or select peer filters of current segments in a virtual address. A peer filter is an alternative filter that may be selected and applied to a given segment in the virtual address bar. For example with reference to peer filters for segment Word Documents may include filters such as Excel Documents Journals and the like. Other types of filters including specific file system locations hardware devices or computer services may also be applied to a given segment in the virtual address bar. Peer filters may or may not be logically related to a given segment s current filter. Each segment in a virtual address bar may have peer filters. Selecting a peer filter of a segment in a virtual address bar is sometimes referred to as navigating laterally. Selecting peer filters of segments in a virtual address bar is described below in regard to and also in regard to .

To illustrate alternatively selecting a segment with reference to a user first places the cursor over segment Document Library for a predetermined amount of time i.e. hovers over the segment to select that segment. demonstrates the results of alternatively selecting segment Document Library in the virtual address bar . As shown in after alternatively selecting segment Document Library a peer filter view is displayed including peer filters corresponding to the selected segment. It should be understood that the peer filters presented in the peer filter view are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as limiting upon the present invention.

In order to select an alternative peer filter as shown in the user positions the cursor over one of the filters presented in the peer filter view such as peer filter and selects the peer filter. As shown in after selecting the alternative peer filter the previously selected segment is replaced with a new segment representing the selected alternative peer filter . Additionally those segments that followed the alternatively selected segment in the virtual address bar of specifically segments Journals and All Documents in 2002 are removed from the virtual address bar in . Although not shown it follows that any files or content previously selected according to segments Document Library Journals and All Documents In 2002 would no longer be displayed in a corresponding file viewer and only those files or content selected according to segments Files and Picture Library would be displayed.

Segments may be added to a virtual address in a virtual address bar through various user interactions at the end of the existing segments. To add a filter to a virtual address in a virtual address bar a user may manipulate an actionable control associated with a particular filter found on a window or file viewer with the virtual address bar. For example with reference to the file viewer of a user may click on the actionable control 2003 to add a corresponding filter to the virtual address in the virtual address bar . Alternatively not shown a user may manually enter in a known filter at the end of the virtual address by typing the filter s name. Numerous other ways of adding a filter to a virtual address exist all of which are contemplated as falling within the scope of the present invention. Thus it should be understood that the above examples are for illustration purposes and should not be construed as limiting upon the present invention.

When a filter is added to a virtual address in a virtual address bar a process is undertaken to ensure that the newly added filter does not conflict with any filters currently existing as part of the virtual address. If the newly added filter conflicts with an existing filter the existing filter is removed. A newly added filter conflicts with an existing filter in a virtual address if the newly added filter varies from the breadth of the existing filter being either more or less broad than the existing filter. Additionally a newly added filter conflicts with an existing filter if the newly added filter is mutually exclusive to the existing filter. However a newly added filter that is equivalent to an existing filter is not added because it has no effect. It should be understood that the above description of conflicts is given for illustration purposes and should not be construed as limiting upon the present invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other conflicts between filters may exist that are contemplated as falling within the scope of the present invention.

As shown in another filter is added to the virtual address represented by segment Author A. The process undertaken for adding this new filter determines that the new filter Author A would conflict with the filter represented by segment Author A F because the new filter Author A is narrower than the existing filter. Accordingly segment Author A F is removed from the virtual address bar and segment Author A is added to the end of the segments in the virtual address bar.

When a virtual address bar such as virtual address bar cannot completely display the virtual address due to size limitations of the virtual address bar a portion of the virtual address is displayed according to the size of the virtual address bar. However the undisplayed portions of the virtual address may still be accessed by the user. More specifically the virtual address bar displays actionable visual indicators to scroll the virtual path within the virtual address bar. illustrate an exemplary virtual address bar displaying a virtual address where the virtual address exceeds the virtual address bar s display capacity. As shown in scroll icons and indicate the direction the virtual address bar may scroll in order to display the previously undisplayed portions of the virtual address. However while the illustrative diagrams demonstrate the use of scroll icons it is for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as limiting on the present invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize that there are numerous other ways of scrolling the virtual address in a virtual address bar all of which are contemplated as falling within the scope of the present invention.

As shown in a virtual address bar may be configured to function as a conventional address bar. For example with reference to by placing a cursor in the empty space of the virtual address bar and clicking there the virtual address bar switches from displaying segments representing a virtual address to functioning as a conventional address bar displaying a conventional address as shown in . The conventional address in the virtual address bar of approximates the virtual address displayed in the virtual address bar of . However those filters in the virtual address bar of that do not correspond to physical locations in a computer file system cannot be displayed and are removed from the conventional address . Specifically segment Case Files and segment Contains Fax are not part of the conventional address .

In order to reconfigure a virtual address bar functioning as a conventional address bar to function normally as a virtual address bar the user must so indicate in a manner other than clicking on the empty area of the bar. When configured to function as a conventional address bar a virtual address bar must permit the user to click in the empty area for address editing purposes. Clicking in the empty area of a conventional address bar places an editing cursor at the end of the address path for editing purposes. Accordingly to reconfigure the virtual address to again function in its normal manner as described above a user must press a predefined key or key sequence such as the Esc or Tab key or by place the focus on another area of a window or view by clicking on another area of the window or view. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other user actions may also be utilized to reconfigure the virtual address bar to again function in its normal mode as described above all of which are contemplated as falling within the scope of the present invention.

At block a determination is made whether the new filter conflicts with an existing filter already in the virtual address. As previously discussed in regard to a new filter may conflict with an existing filter by substantially narrowing or broadening the scope of the existing filter. Alternatively a new filter may conflict with an existing filter because a new filter is mutually exclusive to an existing filter. If at decision block the new filter conflicts with an existing filter at block the existing filter is removed from the virtual address. Alternatively at if the new filter does not conflict with an existing filter or after removing the existing conflicting filter in block at block the new filter is added at the end of the virtual address. Thereafter the exemplary routine terminates.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described it will be appreciated that various changes can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

