---

title: Nonlinear blind demixing of single pixel underlying radiation sources and digital spectrum local thermometer
abstract: Changes, increase or decrease, in the body fluid are passively detected by using a single pixel, non-linear blind de-mixing procedure, which can be extended to general biomedical measurement and diagnosis instruments. More specifically, the single pixel, non-linear blind de-mixing procedure in applied on the hot spots of rheumatic arthritis or breast cancer detection problem using passive two-color infrared imaging, as well as to passively detect blockages in the body fluid circulatory system that might be of importance for coronary artery bypass surgery, diabetes and deep vein thrombosis. Other applications of the mentioned algorithm include a pair of cameras for video, a pair of antennas for cell phones, and in situ data gathering or imaging using multiple mode fiber-optical sensing, as well as selective amplification hearing aids through two-ear binaural processing for de-noise echo cancellation and signal classification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08185357&OS=08185357&RS=08185357
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08185357
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070717
---
The invention is a Division claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 652 086 filed Aug. 22 2003 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 366 564 on Apr. 29 2008 entitled Nonlinear Blind Demixing of Single Pixel Underlying Radiation Sources and Digital Spectrum Local Thermometer to Harold H. Szu James R. Buss and Ivica Kopriva and assigned Navy Case 83801 which is related to and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 405 327 filed Aug. 23 2002 entitled Method and Device for Passive Detection of Changes in Blood Flow by Use of Sensor Pairs Smart Processing System to Harold Szu James Buss and Ivica Kopriva the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention can blindly de mix a single pixel of underlying unknown sources cases whether the sources are generated by associated heat of warm blood supply needed for a rapid growth of tumor or artificially induced by molecular tagging of fluorescence proteins and whether the spectrum is infrared radiation visible fluorescence or invisible Tera Hertz radio frequency which are all by definition unknown sources to be identically treated using statistical mechanics paradigm.

Tumor identification based on algorithms or procedures using multiple pixel statistics assuming that a tumor is larger than a pixel is known in the art. More particularly a statistical multiple pixel blind source separation algorithm procedure termed ICA Independent Component Analysis is known in the art and is based on the factorization of joint probability density. However these algorithms require that a tumor has reached sufficient size that is larger than a pixel so that its neighborhood can contribute to the determination of the identical mixing matrix A shared by all pixels without more unknowns as in the opposite limit of a small tumor having the space variant A for different pixels. In other words an image of the tumor spreads across at least several neighborhood pixels having similar mixing matrix before the tumor can be identified.

That is other statistical Independent Component Analyses ICA methodologies suffer pixel averaging blurring effects since the average over neighborhood pixels must implicitly assume an identical breast medium heat transfer matrix MTF A for the space invariant imaging. This would be true only for a large tumor requiring no earlier target detection.

It would be more desirable to detect a tumor as early as possible in the life cycle of the tumor before the tumor has reached sufficient size to spread across more than one pixel.

Standard Blind Source Separation BSS is known in the art and is referred to as Bell Sejnowski Amari and Oja BSAO four groups of researchers. BSAO has addressed the linear version of BSS. BSAO assumed the identical mixing matrix for all pixels using the Artificial Neural Network ANN as all pixel data post processing collectively in order to factorize the joint probability density function of all pixels known mathematically as the Independent Component Analysis ICA . The BSAO ICA unsupervised learning methodology searches for the natural gradient of Artificial Neural Networks ANN post processing weight matrix W by means of a typical contrast function Maximum Entropy MaxEnt of integral version of the neurons outputs 

The MaxEnt Neural Network used the pixel ensemble average for the stochastic gradient assuming the same mixing matrix A or A for all the pixels and was consequently non real time batch mode algorithm. In multi spectral imaging applications remote sensing breast cancer detection fiber optic data gathering in tissue the ensemble average property will cause a loss of details that in some cases breast cancer detection detection of small objects in the remote sensing could be unacceptable.

In addition a single pixel remote sensing ad hoc method a feedback linear Lagrange Constraint Neural Network by H. Szu is known in the art. This method is based on a gradient descent or slope method and is applicable to the far field radiation linear problems only. However real world applications are mostly nonlinear or pseudo linear.

Thermal breast scanning has been employed for a number of years especially in Europe and Asia but its use has been limited to a single integrated infra red band using a single camera and compared in a chill room about ten minutes the differential cooling rate of malign and benign tumor. Unfortunately this procedure has generated too much variability to be reliable and reproducible.

In addition supervised algorithms are known in the art. In supervised algorithms a standard library is needed but each person is unique in tumor development and personal response physiology that a supervised library approach will create a biased estimation.

Further trained supervised neural networks used for medical applications are known in the art. Supervised networks have the limitation of requiring another method of accurately determining the value of the parameter under different conditions. Further the accuracy of supervised networks is dependent upon the amount of such available training .

An unsupervised learning process separating unknown source signals with both mixture characteristics and original sources unknown but using independent component analysis ICA which assumes spatial invariance is known in the art. That is the assumption is made that mixing matrices of the sources represented in nearby pixels are the same. Spatial invariance assumptions are appropriate for images with high pixel on target values that is an image of a large tumor but lead to significant error when applied to images with small pixel on target values that is an image of a small tumor or pre tumor . Thus harnessing the ICA algorithm to detect small growths or other such aberrations that can not characterize the early stages of a pathological disorder.

In addition a Fast Simulated Annealing algorithm by H. Szu is known in the art Szu and Hartley Fast Simulated Annealing volume 122 number 3 pp. 157 162 1987 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference .

Overview of the Present Invention A closed warm room at a temperature T if left alone will become messy at a maximum entropy S by Shannon s Theorem. When energy that is input output or I O is applied to the room then the room will be less messy reaching a most probable trade off state. Likewise there are multiple routes to travel to New York City from Washington D.C. and given a data vector right arrow over X or X the most probable route to travel that is the source vector right arrow over S or S from Washington D.C. to New York City would be the route which requires the least amount of energy and the least time and would typically be taken as a common sense way by thousands of travelers.

The present invention postulates that the information I O energy E as a first order feed forward estimation error energy and adopts the isothermal equilibrium condition at the minimum of the Helmhotz free energy H E TS. This generalized information theory for open dynamic equilibrium becomes an aspect of the resolution of multiple choices of solutions as the unique solution. The present invention claims the application embodiments of this new theory.

One requires multiple sensors to measure multiple features to cover all possible sources with enough signal to noise ratio then their unknown mixture may be de mixed in the smallest possible image size single pixel emitted from an unknown source medium e.g. tissue and surrounding. This single pixel nonlinear blind de mixing algorithm or procedure or method of the present invention is unique because the present invention imposes the minimum Helmholtz free energy for the most probable equilibrium situation and thus does not use the neighborhood pixel gray values in order to seek the mathematical transformation that leads to the factorization of the joint probability density function which is the theory of Independent Component Analysis ICA which works only for there are enough number of pixels over a large size of tumor to form the probability distribution .

The present invention measures multiple radiation components forming a data vector per single pixel X X X . . . in order to determine uniquely the underlying sources forming a source vector S S S . . . propagating through a nonlinear mixing medium. The present invention adopts that the thermal diffusion is constrained isothermally at the equilibrium free energy known as Helmholtz free energy H E TS where E is the energy T is the equilibrium reservoir temperature and S denotes the classical Shannon information theory entropy. In this sense present invention generalizes the classical Shannon information theory which states the special case of a closed system E 0 and the entropy must be evolving toward the maximum for the absolute equilibrium. The present invention postulates the state of an open equilibrium system defined by the feed forward first order error energy E X S g W X S. The present invention seeks among all possible vector sources S S S . . . the one that satisfies the minimum H for arbitrary mixing matrix A and smooth nonlinearity g X g A S. This physical condition of isothermal equilibrium is a strong constraint which permits the present invention to invert the single pixel data blindly for S without knowing ahead the mixing matrix and non linearity.

The present invention departs from the traditional ICA solution which must use the additional neighborhood pixel data by furthermore assuming the space invariant imaging condition namely an identical A for all pixels so that using neighborhood data will not increase more unknowns. Unfortunately this space invariant condition is valid only when many pixels cover a very large tumor. In medical diagnosis one wishes to detect early the smallest possible malign tumor of which the heat transport mixing matrix A pixel must in general vary from its home pixel to its neighborhood.

The practice of this patent has demonstrated the possibility of an early detection by taking two pictures using two spectral cameras non intrusively. Each pair of input pixel data vector has two components a long wavelength 8 12 micrometer and a middle wavelength 3 5 micrometer . Such a pair per pixel is defined as a vector X pixel t X pixel t X pixel t where t indicates a repetition time that can reveal the growth of a malign tumor which is usually mixed with a benign one in terms of a unknown percentage source vector S pixel t S pixel t S pixel t . This expectation is realistic because the physics of radiation source indicates a shift toward a shorter wavelength spectrum X pixel t associated with the massive nutrition feed of a warmer lymph and blood toward a rapid growth of a malign tumor biologically known as the Angiogenesis property . Then the quantitative value of the malign tumor source S S S can be determined by imposing the generalized information theory at a local equilibrium in terms of the Helmholtz free energy.

Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is an embodiment of a single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm or procedure with pairs of nonlinear sensors that together can provide pixel by pixel nonlinear blind recovery of noisy heat source signals. The pixel by pixel blind recovery is thus possible for real time massively pixel parallel implementation without latency associated with the batch mode signal processing. This feature is crucial for the real world space time variant propagation medium.

The present invention provides an exact global solution to the above mentioned non linear problem that is numerically based. The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm or procedure of the present invention is also referred to as a non linear Lagrange Constraint Neural Network non linear LCNN or unsupervised learning artificial neural network algorithm or procedure and is an unsupervised algorithm procedure .

A further aspect of the present invention is application of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm to general biomedical measurement and diagnoses systems. More specifically neural network systems and devices embodying the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention are applied to the detection of cancers in the mammalian breast and blockages in the body fluid circulatory system by using single axis multiple camera system.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is application of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm to the in situ multiple mode fiber optical data gathering or imaging devices.

A further aspect of the present invention is application of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm to the amplification hearing aids problem based on the two ear binaural processing for de noise echo cancellation and signal classification.

The algorithm or procedure of the present invention referred to variously as single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm a non linear LCNN and a feed forward Lagrange Constraint Neural Network feed forward LCNN makes pixel by pixel blind source separation BSS possible for real time implementation without latency associated with the batch mode signal processing based on stochastic ICA and without the latency associated with supervised algorithms. This feature is important for the real world space time variant propagation medium.

One assumption made is that the unknown sources are equally probable and seek optimization balanced by the constraints of data measurement model times the Lagrange Multipliers.

The present invention is directed to a single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm modeled on the human visual brain unsupervised learning system and enables detection of heat radiated by abnormally reproducing breast cancer cells.

The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention is based on the Lagrange Constraint Neural Network LCNN and multiple spectral data per pixel and enhances the sensitivity and accuracy of breast cancer testing.

That is the present invention includes methods and devices that passively detect changes in the body fluid flow by use of a sensor pairs smart processing system including a digital heat spectrum local thermometer usable for core temperature maintenance based on the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm.

The sensor pairs smart processing system including the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm is modeled on the human visual brain unsupervised learning system and enables detection of heat radiated by abnormally reproducing breast cancer cells.

Abnormally reproducing cells demand greater nutrition through increased oxygen supply thus generating higher concentrations of heat in specific areas. Applying the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention enables classification of the infrared heat distribution given off by these cells and thus enables a digital heat spectrum local thermometer for core temperature maintenance.

The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm per pixel of the present invention is based on the information derived directly from spectral data alone. To reveal the hidden spectral features included in a single pixel image data vector X A S the matrix must be inverted without knowing both the breast medium heat transfer matrix MTF A and the heat source S which both vary from pixel to pixel and the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm provides the solution to reveal these spectral features.

The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention is a space variant imaging algorithm. The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention following spectral data vector analysis and the physics constraints of thermodynamics free energy minimization achieves subpixel accuracy.

With the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention similar to a pair human eyes a pair of cameras at different infrared wavelengths Medium wavelength IR 3 5 micrometers camera and Long wavelength IR 8 12 micrometers camera both having about 10 milli Kelvin degrees in the minimum resolvable temperature difference MRTD transcribes this thermal diffusion process into two images which are then filtered for shared signals while disagreement noise is minimized. This process detected early stage ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS in a test patient using a double blind procedure.

The present invention provides multi spectral sub pixel super resolution potentially more accurate than current methods by an order of magnitude and offers a passive inexpensive non intrusive convenient means of screening pre cancer patients without radiation hazard and may potentially detect in situ carcinomas long before a mammogram might detect them.

The application of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention may offer an unbiased more sensitive accurate and generally more effective way to track the development of breast cancer than the thermal breast scanning of the related art without demanding the variables of along wait in a cold room increasing the variability inaccuracy in thermal detection and causing patient discomfort.

The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm which is an unsupervised classification algorithm of the present invention applied to multi spectral imagining potentially improves the early detection process for breast cancer and possibly other dermal carcinomas.

The present invention emphasizes a single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm without using statistics. In single pixel unsupervised learning of the present invention one s own library is built. Moreover unsupervised algorithms do not face the hindrances of supervised algorithms discussed herein above related to building and maintaining libraries.

Moreover the present invention includes blind signal separation of detailed algorithms specific to the function of neural networks.

The present invention assumes spatial variance to address the problem of unknown mixture characteristics and original sources. Thus the present invention has the capability to find sub pixel irregularities such as tumors and track their behavior over time. Such abilities lead to greater insights in medical inquiries relating to how and why such abnormalities originate and burgeon.

Moreover the present invention relates to the method and devices for passively detecting changes in the increase or decrease of thermal flow by the use of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm based on the Statistical Mechanical thermodynamics principle of unsupervised fusion of sensor pairs. More specifically the embodiment of unsupervised fusion of sensor pairs known as artificial neural networks is applied to general biomedical instrument measurement and diagnoses systems. Most specifically the neural network system which is coined as Lagrange Constraint Neural Network LCNN or feed forward LCNN and a device are applied to detection of cancer in the mammalian breast and hot spots of rheumatic arthritis or conversely the blockages in the blood circulatory system that might be of importance for coronary artery bypass surgery diabetes and deep vein thrombosis.

The system of the present invention which includes the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm and supporting detection equipment is used to detect anomalies in the image. Additional biomedical applications of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention include in situ data gathering or imaging using multiple mode fiber optical sensing as well as selective amplification hearing aids through two ear binaural processing for de noise echo cancellation and signal classification.

The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention is referred to variously as the feed forward LCNN the sensor pairs smart processing system unsupervised smart learning algorithm general brain like smart algorithm feed forward LCNN unsupervised learning algorithm non linear LCNN and unsupervised nonlinear feed forward Lagrange Constraint Neural Network LCNN signal and image classification procedure.

These together with other aspects and advantages which will be subsequently apparent reside in the details of construction and operation as more fully hereinafter described and claimed reference being had to the accompanying drawings forming a part hereof wherein like numerals refer to like parts throughout.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Overview of the Present Invention An overview of the present invention is now presented in terms of a number theoretical description of the philosophy of the present invention.

Without presenting the analytical solutions the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention may be intuitively justified as follows. Human beings are endowed with two pairs of sensors. Two ears two eyes one nose but two passages one tongue but two sides and front back two hands two feet groups of tactile sensors that generate the vector but not scalar time series may be taken for granted. The vector data allow searching of the subspace where the unknown mixing vectors span by the concept of a killing or elimination weight vector. One possibility for having two sensors is if one is damaged the other would still be available. That certainly gave a hardware fault tolerance so to speak.

In addition being more sophisticated and learning like a bat two sensors together could provide direction finding. Indeed human beings are equipped with a true time delay filter bank having about a milli second acoustic propagation time difference across two ears. More importantly these sensors are used for a learning strategy without the need of a teacher and its guidance delay while two sensors disagreed it should be noise agreement should be signal . More particularly is an illustration of the present invention related to a general brain like unsupervised fusion of sensor pairs the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention which is based on the minimum Helmholtz energy squeeze learning strategy raw pairs of data in and garbage out that requires no teacher.

For example if someone called out your name in a windy hill for an imminent danger your two ears could immediately reject the wind noise by comparison and selectively amplified the agreed signal for a quick response in turning ones head for an immediately second hearing and looking. With the help of the short term memory one has four ears and four eyes from which the degree of agreement could be ranked in order that allowed the coincidence amplification to sharpen the sighting and hearing. These provide intuitive reasons why the present invention includes a pair of microphones to eliminate the recording wind noise similarly binaural hearing aids as well as two infrared cameras at distinct different infrared spectral bands in order to image the angiogenesis process and process the data fusion in a brain style smart processing.

How could the brain achieve biologically the smart sensor processing without a teacher When the external signals entered through a set of sensors into the brain hundred millions excitations were generated by sensory neurons that took a lot of energy to sustain and therefore most of all redundancy would have to be decaying toward random brain waves to make room for further stimulus. What happened along the way of the naturally decaying process. Did the neuron pathway take the advantage of the inevitable decaying to learn something This suggests that the energy decaying process is naturally driven by the second law of thermodynamic that says that as the energy diffuses the entropy always increases . The entropy increase processing needed no teacher because for whatever the inputs the outputs at the finish of learning happened at an energy minimization and local maximum entropy characterization of randomized diffusion of brain waves. Such an unsupervised learning of ANN had successfully reproduced the minimum redundancy correlation set of sensor pairs inputs in the form of oriented edge maps observed in cats first by Hubel and Wiesel in the multiple octave resolution. In the lowest resolution of pair sensor agreement one s represented the binary agreement and the disagreement by zeros and the location of the sparse one s is different from other oriented edges in the two dimensional 2D space. In so doing the synaptic weight matrix among neurons extracts the edge features without the need of a teacher since the identical de correlated outputs required no teacher to specify it for any inputs. A person with one eye could learn without a teacher by trying harder width the help of hardware multiplexing using internal memory by taking a second look. Such a capability of unsupervised learning turned out to be the key learning ingredient of advanced Machine IQ beyond the average robots.

Real world applications are mostly nonlinear or pseudo linear. The present invention addresses the real world applications that are either nonlinear or linear by means of the second law of thermodynamics formulated in terms of the Lagrange Constraint Neural Network LCNN . The linear LCNN algorithm is a special case of the nonlinear LCNN version the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention . A feed forward version of the LCNN the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention is shown in . is the single pixel non linear blind de multiplexing algorithm the feed forward LCNN Neural Network of the present invention which is using the source ensemble average for the stochastic gradient that might have different mixing matrix A for each pixel and enjoyed the real time pixel by pixel computation. Here the feed forward term means that learning is formulated in terms of the W matrix that represents inverse of the mixing matrix A .

The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention is formulated on a pixel by pixel basis and consequently does not suffer from blurring effects due to pixel ensemble averaging operations.

In multi spectral imaging applications remote sensing breast cancer detection fiber optic data gathering in tissue the pixel ensemble average property will cause a loss of details that in some cases breast cancer detection detection of small objects in the remote sensing could be unacceptable. The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm used the source ensemble average for the stochastic gradient that might have different mixing matrix A for each pixel and enjoyed real time pixel by pixel computation.

The acceptance of a new procedure single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure depended on its ability to make predictions. The thermodynamics entropy balance existed naturally in LCNN between the action and the reaction. On the other hand there were those emotional Intelligence Quotient e IQ that is known to like action and reaction influence our thought processes thinking through feeling which were emotion timing rhythm guts feeling body temperature etc. How could such novel capability be substantiated with the ANN model The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm accomplishes that because the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm predicted something else other than the neurons themselves must be involved in unsupervised learning. Without the external detail supervision Lagrange constraints from the environmental heat reservoir right arrow over provided the necessary reaction forces to balance the action of neuron excitations generated by input data right arrow over x . The brain anatomy revealed that there were neurons modulating the synaptic weights for information processing and memory. In addition to neurons in the brain millions of housekeeping cells whose active role in information processing was suspected but not yet been verified.

Theory of the present invention seemed to suggest that the Lagrange constraint forces play the role of those millions of cells doing more than the housekeeping of neurons activity but also maintaining the dynamic equilibrium of thermal reservoir. Thus both neurons actions and housekeeping cells reactions were simultaneously present in the single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm which is an LCNN model of ANN.

Since the sensor data vector right arrow over x has the physical dimensionality of Volts about 100 milli volts across the axon synaptic junction as measured by 1952 Nobel Laureate Hodgkin and Huxley the Lagrange constraints right arrow over that multiplied the data right arrow over x to produced the internal energy E must have the physical dimensionality of Amperes pico Ampere per ion channel measured by 1991 Nobel Laureates Neher and Sakmann in the dendrite tree as an active data pre processing. It represented the housekeeping tutor for unsupervised learning truly without an outside teacher. Any direct or indirect evidences in biological and neuropsychological experiments of homeostasis unsupervised learning theory would be timely. The hypothalamus that sits above the pituitary gland so called third eye in animal kingdom located right at the geometric center of the brain and can regulate many functions of brain and body. For example the body temperature for a warm blood homeostasis animal is kept at a fixed temperature 37 C. for most humans in order to maintain a proper activity of the immune system and the enzymes catalytic reaction rate that balances the chemical reaction by a negative feedback system by means of the hormonal pathway organic molecules e.g. antidiuretic hormone ADH regulated through the membranes the intracellular thyroxin to mitochondria and the blood stream e.g. adrenal an enlarged ganglion secrete adrenalin versus Amygdale fear and the depression Serotonin versus neurotransmitter . The balance is further controlled by the limbic loop circuit system connecting the Cerebral Cortex with the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland to translate complex emotion and drive into actions that in turn guide the motion perception and learning experience. From the definition of thermodynamic Helmholtz free energy a constant cybernetic temperature Tallows simultaneously minimizing the internal energy for supervised categorization and the maximization of the entropy for unsupervised component analysis.

Mathematically artificial neural network models of unsupervised learning seemed to predict a constant temperature Tfor minimization of the thermodynamic Helmholtz free energy H E TS. While the supervised learning with implicit or explicit teaching may be driven by the internal energy minimization the unsupervised learning sensory pre processing may be driven by the relaxation decaying processes by means of the maximization of local entropy. These models suggest it may also be important to the intercellular communication mediated learning mechanism. Furthermore minimization of the Helmholtz free energy H E TS at a constant Tthat involves the internal energy E and the entropy S is believed to have maintained the thermodynamic equilibrium of those intercellular communication mechanisms useful for Hebbian synaptic modification.

Infrared IR breast imaging using the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention is based on all long mid and short infra red IR wavelengths simultaneously capable for fusion and classification as the present invention is accomplished based on the human brain pairs sensor unsupervised learning. Two color IR images registered properly could provide physicians with better breast cancer diagnosis. Two registered color images are components of the data vector X or right arrow over X and represent inputs to the LCNN algorithms. Outputs of the LCNN algorithms are components of the source vector S or right arrow over S . Unlike mammography which includes radiation hazards there is no such risk in the passive two color IR screening . In a case of massive deployment of U.S. Department of Defense DoD IR technology for the first line home defense that will imply low cost of IR technology based medical equipment.

In situ fiber optical data gathering or imaging devices using the single pixel non linear de mixing procedure of the present invention would be based on multiple mode fiber optical for multiple sensing . Outputs of the multiple mode fiber are components of the data vector X while outputs of the LCNN algorithm are components of the source vector S.

Selective amplification hearing aids using the single pixel non linear de mixing procedure of the present invention would take the advantage of two ear binaural processing for de noise echo cancellation and signal classification simultaneously. In two ear binaural processing extracted signal is transmitted by a PDA like device to an earpiece . Components of the data vector X correspond with input to the LCNN algorithm . Components of the source vector S correspond with the output of the LCNN algorithm .

To differentiate benign from abnormal heat sources of the breasts by using the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention a pair of infrared imaging cameras is used to be complimentary to the X ray mammogram as a convenient inexpensive and non intrusive first line defense which could be recommended as a massive screening supplement as well as tracking the risky patients longitudinally in time as frequently as deemed to be necessary without the radiation hazard.

A contribution of the present invention is the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention together with the necessity of two cameras to take breasts images simultaneously at two different spectrum bands e.g. at the wavelength 1 3 m or 3 5 m 8 12 m which is similar to the success of remote sensing at the satellite platform without the ground truth from tanks to tumors. 

Indeed U.S. Department of Defense DoD technology transition of Automatic Target Recognition ATR was traditionally implemented with a library of templates to determine close match with input data within a threshold. Unfortunately such a library approach could not be reliably applied to the breast thermal imaging that might vary according to capillary fluid flow constriction or dilation pattern that might be Angiogenesis carcinoma modulated by breast size fatty tissue and skin textures to a lesser but unpredictable way.

The present invention includes an unsupervised classifier using the statistical mechanics based Lagrangian techniques in terms of the second law of thermodynamics contrast function without relying on either the classical library hard templates or the modern artificial neural network ANN soft look up extrapolation table based on supervised learning exemplars. Instead following the biomimetics of two eyes the present invention applies at least two imaging cameras that give two spectral components of each pixel forming a vector data set right arrow over x . System designed such that data vector X already correspond with the source signal S is only a special case of the present invention.

The present invention furthermore assumes that the breast tissue is a conservative propagation medium in the sense of neither sinks nor sources that the mixing matrix having two unit vectors that could be of any angles except in parallel . The reason why a pair could learn without a teacher might be explained by a unique orthogonal property that existed only in the vector domain called the vector inner product given a mixture unit vector circumflex over one could exhaustively find in a subspace a unit weight vector called the killing vector such that the summation of its products of the corresponding Cartesian components of the mixture vector happened to become zero. circumflex over circumflex over 0. 1 

According to the second law of thermodynamics a suitable contrast function is the Helmholtz free energy so that one could systematically search the local minima generated by means of the killing weight vectors happened to nullify any one of two unknown mixing vectors. The mathematics is equivalent to a numerical game that might be called name that numbers similar to a popular TV show of NAME THAT TONE . One had to guess what two positive integers in another person s mind were when that person gave two different combinations of these two hidden integers. The under determined problem of special case of positive inverse problem is that 4 unknowns s s must be determined from two data X X . In other words each pixel of two images obtained from two cameras is considered as forming 2D vector. Given the vector data per pixel to be two different combinations of pair integers say s 5 and s 3 

The question is what the unknown underlying sources 5 and 3 for the benign and abnormal heat sources were respectively. The corresponding vector version was 3 where circumflex over x circumflex over cos circumflex over sin circumflex over x circumflex over b cos circumflex over b sin . The unit vectors were indicated by a hat. The corresponding vector diagram representation of the equations 2 3 is shown in . is a Vector Space representation of the killing vector approach to unsupervised learning. The data vector circumflex over x always sits between the unknown feature vectors circumflex over and circumflex over b .

The unknown magnitude of the source vector per pixel N 5 3 is determined from the triangle inequality which applies for the vector norm as right arrow over 4 which gives ceil 5 and ceil means integer rounding toward positive infinity and circumflex over circumflex over b are mixing matrix unit vectors. The abstract data model 2 has physical interpretation when re written in a form 

If sensors suffer from nonlinear distortions the linear data model 2 6 has to be extended 8 where g is the appropriate sensor nonlinearity with the unknown parameters. Then before applying linear LCNN algorithm data vector has to be linearized according to 9 where g represents functional inverse of the sensor nonlinearity g such that 10 and denotes composition of functions.

From the single pixel point of view this permutation is not a problem. From the space variant imaging point of view it could create problems because related components of two different source vectors corresponding with two different pixels could be assigned to two different images. However the vector diagram in shows that depending on convention for angles and it applies the following 18a or 18b where is angle defined from data vector tan x x . Then adopting convention that angle is always greater than angle and that angle is always less than angle this type of permutation indeterminacy can be resolved for the space variant case. Adopted convention has physical interpretation in the context of multi spectral IR imaging where feature vector corresponding with short IR radiation is always closer to the X axis. Discussed previously a special case of the system design in which data vector right arrow over X or X already represents source vector right arrow over S or S is obtained by present invention when one mixing angle say is equal to 90 and another mixing angle say is equal to 0 .

The Shanon entropy S used in Eq. 15 is derived from the Boltzmann entropy shown in and defined as S Klog V where each binomial expansion

More particularly shows convergence of the Lagrange multipliers right arrow over learning algorithm the single pixels non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention which is derived herein below in Eq. 29 41 . shows error s s in dB as a function of the iteration index for given optimal values of the parameters N .

Two 72 88 images are now mixed by a mixing matrix that has been changed from pixel to pixel in order to simulate the space variant imaging problem. Angles and are changed column wise according to i.e. for every column index angles were changed for 1 and mutual distance between them is 4 .

Results are presented in which shows from left to right two source images two images after linear mixture has been passed through nonlinearity 11 and two separated images using nonlinear LCNN algorithm the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention reported herein below. Since nonlinear LCNN algorithm solves the problem on the pixel by pixel basis the recovery is almost perfect although mixing matrix is space variant.

A fundamental aspect of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention is given in the following three sections of mathematics which are embodied in the systems of the present invention.

This brain theory of learning is rigorously derived from the classical Statistical Mechanics Stat Mech . From it the sigmoid threshold and Hebbian learning etc. attributes of ANN Models were successfully derived. Moreover the Stat Mech had achieved for the first time the truly unsupervised learning of the brain intelligence without the need of an outside supervisor FIG. .

Since the brain wet ware could be considered merely as another classical many cellular body problem it should be equally suited for the Stat Mech treatment. The general theory of the present invention began with the laws of thermodynamics that correctly proclaimed about the inevitable death of any macroscopic system including life systems when the energy diffused its entropy always increased . How could this law be utilized to model ANN While the entropy increased a data constraint optimization achieved the balance. What would be the representation of data The present invention assumed a local representation that permitted a linear matrix and vector algebra that could be generalized to nonlinear dynamical systems. Thus the brain data right arrow over x t are a vector time series represented the energy excited state of arbitrary dimension N. The present invention asked for the underlying minimum redundancy sources right arrow over s t of the dimension M that is unknown and equal to or less than N by the redundancy reduction Stat Mech methodology. 22 which gives 23 where the unknown vector right arrow over g could be non isotropic heat diffusion breast tissue function of the unknown sources right arrow over s t or and W A . The linear expansion coefficient matrices A and W were also unknown and had to be determined by the thermodynamic equilibrium theory. The mathematics of the blind inverse problem is peculiar and required the Stat Mech skills when dealing with unknown or ill defined matrix inversion algebra. Given the data vector right arrow over x t one had to invert the nonlinear matrix vector Eq. 24 to find the most probable sources right arrow over s t without knowing the coupling matrix A . Mathematically speaking the equally probable distribution of the source components amounted to the maximum of the Shannon entropy 

Feed forward LCNN Unsupervised Learning The single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention is now explained.

Lacking of any other information the vector of Lagrange multipliers right arrow over known in mechanics as the virtual forces to stop the increase of the entropy is multiplied with the estimation error W g right arrow over x Nright arrow over s departed from the data known as the virtual displacement 26 

Then any departure from the MaxEnt uniform distribution heat death is dictated by the measurement data right arrow over x with the help of unsupervised learning matrix W and the Lagrange multipliers right arrow over 

Theorem Sigmoid Threshold for Optimum Communication Any unknown message right arrow over s defined by the Lagrange Constraint Helmholtz free energy

Theorem Variation of thermodynamic free energy with respect to virtual Lagrange constraint forces gives displacement of virtual sources s .

Proof Imposing the constraint of probability normalization condition s 1 and using Eq. 29 the partition function of the canonical ensemble in Statistical Mechanics is obtained 

Theorem Equilibrium Learning Rule for Lagrange Multipliers Virtual Lagrange forces are changed in the direction of minimal displacement from data.

Proof. Using the perturbation theory the iterative update rule for the Lagrange multipliers with respect to data error is derived as 

Theorem Initial conditions for MaxEnt like algorithm the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention . In the absence of any knowledge most fair assumption for the source probabilities s is the Maximum Entropy assumption

Theorem Global minimum of the absolute value of the Helmholtz free energy. Vector of the unknown nonlinearity parameters right arrow over de mixing matrix W and source magnitude N are determined at the minimum of the absolute value of the Helmholtz free energy 27 .

Proof. Because the Shannon entropy S in Eq. 27 is a convex function that does not depend on the nonlinearity parameters right arrow over de mixing matrix W and scaled parameter N one could add it to Eq. 27 yielding 

At some iteration output triplet right arrow over W N is generated as an output of the optimization algorithm in an attempt to reach possibly global minimum of the estimation error energy 27 48 . For a given triplet right arrow over W N the MaxEnt like algorithm 29 48 computes the most probable solution for the source vector right arrow over S W right arrow over S . This represents feedback for the optimization algorithm that computes a new value of the estimation error energy and generates a new triplet right arrow over W N . After each iteration l is completed a quadruple right arrow over W N right arrow over S is obtained. The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention accepts as a final solution the quadruple right arrow over W N right arrow over S for which the estimation error energy 27 48 reaches a possibly global minimum. Provided that nonlinear function g has unique inverse the quadruple right arrow over W N right arrow over S corresponding with given data model 22 will give a global minimum of the error energy function. This is because for a given triplet right arrow over W N the MaxEnt like algorithm 29 41 converges toward

Theorem of Unsupervised Hebb Rule Update of the Inverse of the Associative Memory AM Matrix is done by means of metric weighted gradient descent of LCNN.

Proof. The learning rule for the inverse of the associative memory matrix from the Lagrange Constraint Minimum Helmholtz Free Energy at the single pixel level is derived in the present invention as 

The gradient descent learning rule 52 is useful substitution for the exhaustive search algorithm associated with the minimization of the error energy function 48 when initial value of the de mixing matrix is chosen close enough to the global minimum of the error energy function 48 .

Referring now to pixel data are selected X i j . Next vectors are initialized. Then an iteration loop k 0. Next an iteration index loop k k 1 is set. Equation 31 is then executed followed by Equation 41a Equation 41b and Equation 52 . The procedure is repeated if the final parameter is not met.

The single unit circuit diagram of the feed forward LCNN Eq. 22 52 the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention which is suitable for scalable implementation on mixed analog and digital VLSI circuits is shown in .

A description of computational processes of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention is shown in . shows a description of computational processes of the present invention for the single unit circuit diagram shown in of the linear feed forward LCNN method the single pixel non linear blind de mixing method of the present invention Eq. 22 Eq. 52 .

As shown in 1. relates to SW1 opened 2. relates to SW1 closed 3. relates to updating the unmixing matrix W locally 4. relates to SW1 closed 5. relates to SW1 closed 6. relates to computing the partition function Z 7. relates to computing locally source components and 8. returns to 1. .

More particularly a circuit diagram of the complete feed forward LCNN the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention for a three dimensional 3D case is shown in .

The feed forward LCNN the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention shown in could be implemented in VLSI circuits as illustrated in .

Application of the Present Invention to Medical Systems The present invention includes all conceivable applications that are enabled by means of the elucidation and teaching of the human brain sensor pairs through the unsupervised learning by the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention that is the Nonlinear Lagrange Constraint Neural Network Nonlinear LCNN .

The present invention is related to the use of pairs of smart sensors instruments for diagnoses passively and actively in glass in bio tissue in channels. More specifically it is accomplished by passively detecting thermal changes in the body fluids flow by using the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention applied to unsupervised fusion of sensor pairs but can be extended to more general biomedical measurement and diagnoses instruments. Applications are demonstrated and illustrated in the breast cancer detection multi mode fiber optics imaging and the binaural hearing aids .

In the light of the above teachings obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

More specifically the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention that is the unsupervised algorithm is applied to the breast cancer detection problem using passive two color infrared imaging. Application of the same methodology can be extended to passively detect blockages in the human body fluid circulatory system. Other biomedical applications of the algorithm of the present invention include in situ data gathering or imaging using multiple mode fiber optical sensing as well as selective amplification hearing aids through two ear binaural processing for de noise echo cancellation and signal classification. Of special interest is also the capability of the present invention to detect virtual tumor generated as a consequence of the reflected fluorescent light of the artificial reference source such as in multiple mode fiber optical sensing.

The present invention accomplishes simultaneous fusion and classification of several IR breast images based on the human brain pairs sensor unsupervised learning using the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention as shown in .

The concept of angiogenesis as suggested by Gamagami Gamagami P Indirect signs of breast cancer Angiogreneis study. In Cambridge Mass. Blackwell Science pp 231 258 1996 as an integral part of an early breast cancer is of key importance for understanding the success of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention the brain like smart sensors pair unsupervised LCNN algorithm to detect breast cancer as a class which is different from the healthy tissue. His concept was reiterated in 1996 by Guido and Schnitt Guidi A. J. and Schnitt S. J. Angiogenesis in preinvasive lesions of the breast 2 364 369 1996 whose observations suggested that angiogenesis is an early event in the development of breast cancer. They noted that it might occur before tumor cells acquired the ability to invade the surrounding stoma and even before there was morphologic evidence of a ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS . Anbar Anbar M Hyperthermia of the cancerous breast Analysis of mechanism 84 23 29 1994 Anbar M. Breast cancer in Ann Arbor Mich. CRC Press pp. 84 94 1994 using an elegant biochemical and immunological cascade suggested that the empirical observation that small tumors capable of producing notable IR changes could be due to enhanced perfusion over a substantial area of breast surface via tumor induced nitric oxide vasodilatation. That enables the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention based on a multiple color IR sensory system to classify a tumor from healthy tissue that can be 1 mm in diameter and which can help to detect cancers that are not visible through mammography that was already shown for standard single camera based thermography Head J. F. Wang F. and Elliott R. L. Breast thermography is a noninvasive prognostic procedure that predicts tumor growth rate in breast cancer patients 698 153 158 1993 .

The two color camera is designed to operate in the long IR band between 8 and 12 m. In that band physics of the blackbody radiation described in equation data model 6 will enable angular separation between mixing angles of the order of 0.1 for the two objects with temperature difference of 0.1 K. with the absolute temperature of 310 K. Because at given temperature the blackbody radiation is maximal in the band between 8 and 12 m this will give maximal signal level to the detector. In order to maximize signal to noise ratio camera must be cooled to minimize dark current level. In this regard the quantum well IR photodetectors are very promising technology long IR detectors due to the property of the quantum well detectors to narrow bandgap of the detector without having to deal with the poor properties of narrow gap semiconductors. This enables low energy long IR photons 8 and 12 m to generate significantly more currents i.e. to increase efficiency. Because dark current level is governed by temperature this reduces cooling requirements on the quantum well detectors that operate in the region between 8 and 9 m. Consequently cooling at the refrigerator level could be enough to compensate for dark current effect.

Following the logic of the angiogenesis concept which due to the enhanced perfusion over a substantial area of breast surface via tumor induced nitric oxide vasodilatation enabled early breast cancer detection as a class which is different from healthy tissue the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention can be applied to passively detect blockages in the body fluid circulatory system as well.

In situ fiber optical data gathering or imaging devices using the single pixel non linear de mixing procedure of the present invention are accomplished using the embodiment of the multiple mode fiber optical for multiple sensing as illustrated in .

As shown in an image of the tissue is presented by the ocular lens to the Dual mode fiber relay which transmits the image to the ocular lens . The ocular lens focuses the image on the scanning mirror which divides the image by wavelength onto a first detector array and a second detector array . The detector arrays in one embodiment being charge coupled devices transfer the detected images to the computer data vector X in models 3 22 . The computer executes the LCNN unsupervised two spectral image classification algorithm which corresponds to the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention to acquire de mixed images and and identify the heat source presented therein source vector S in models 3 22 .

Following the same logic as in the case of breast cancer detection the multiple modes fiber optic enables the single pixel non linear de mixing procedure of the present invention to perform unsupervised classification of the multi spectral image of the biological tissue.

Selective amplification hearing aids of the related art are based on a single inner ear cochlear mechanism. A binaural property had yet not found its way into the design of modern hearing aids because the industry is lacking of an unsupervised learning algorithm and implementation devices until the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention which enables a binaural selective amplifier with the help of the wireless chip spread spectrum at short range at 3.4 GHz called Bluetooth or home appliance or IEEE standard and fast processor chip of a POCKET PC PALM PILOT etc . The present invention includes de noise echo cancellation and signal classification simultaneously taking advantage of two ear binaural processing and the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure smart unsupervised nonlinear feed forward LCNN algorithm of the present invention as shown in .

Having described the invention the following examples are given to illustrate specific applications of the invention including the best mode now known to perform the invention. These specific examples are not intended to limit the scope of the invention described in this application.

An example of the application of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention is now presented.

The single color camera system shown in has been used so far to record IR breast imaging Thermal Image Processing Breast Cancer Detection Years Earlier pp. 29 35 September 1999 C. J. Wright and C. B. Mueller Screening Mammography and Public Health Policy The Need for Perspective 346 July 1995 pp.29 32 and Ibid . IR breast images shown in which shows long IR 8 12 m and which shows mid IR 3 5 m are recorded in that way.

The breast thermograms were taken of the same person in the same room under the same circumstances and with a medium wave Cincinnati Electronics Iris 256 LN Indium Antimonide 3 5 m camera and a long wave ICC MBC 200 Platinum Selicide 9 12 m camera that were set as co axially as physically possible. The patient that was the subject of the thermal imaging is a 47 year old white female with a recent histologically confirmed diagnosis of stage 0 1 ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS in the cranial lateral quadrant of the right breast.

Since IR cameras had different image formats and optical axis were impossible to make perfectly parallel it was obvious from that prior to applying the single pixel non linear blind de multiplexing procedure the LCNN blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention a proper registration of the multi modality breast images had to be done. The affine transform H. H. Szu MO Imagery Techniques Using Arrays of Large Aperture Telescopes Vol. 32 No. 2 pp. 229 234 19803.4 September 2000 Research Systems Inc. based image registration had been used for that purpose. The 2D affine transform between the point right arrow over P on the reference image and point right arrow over P on the image to be registered was given with right arrow over P Aright arrow over P right arrow over T where A is 2 2 area preserving matrix and right arrow over T is a translation vector. Thus to register two images at least three reference points 2 2 2 6 should be identified on both images. Generally registration error is smaller for smaller images. Moreover the asymmetry is common between two breasts.

Therefore the original images shown in had been segmented in two halves i.e. left breast and right breast images had been registered separately.

The corresponding left breast images are shown in . show the registered mid IR first component of the data vector X in models 3 22 and long IR second component of the data vector X in models 3 22 images of the left breast. White means high intensity. Image registration was necessary in order to overcome difficulties that come from using two different cameras with non parallel optical axis and different size of the CCD sensors.

Vertical and horizontal labels represented pixel locations. It could be observed from all of B A and B that nipples on both left and right breast on mid and long wave IR images are located at the practically same pixel locations. This is not the case with the original images shown in .

A single axis two color camera system of the present invention shown in and based on the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention circumvents the difficulties which come from the use of single color and multiple optical axis cameras system. The single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention the unsupervised LCNN algorithm is applied to de mixing of the sub pixel spectral decomposition of the segmented and registered multi spectral EO IR breast images shown in B A and B. Since the smart pixel processing of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention resolves sub pixel spectral components with an unbiased and unsupervised learning ability it has been investigated whether the underlying independent texture feature could capture and tracked the pre cancer anomaly heat generation or micro calcification development.

That is shows de mixing results for the right breast while show de mixing results for the left breast. In all of B A and B the white color means class of the high probability close to 1 while black color means class of low probability close to 0 i.e. practically absence of the class. The independent classes of the left breast shown in represent thermal classes of normal diffusive heat coming from large blood vessels since most large heat classes come from the blood vessels inside of the breast Ch. Gorman Rethinking Breast Cancer pp. 50 58 Feb. 18 2002 . The left breast de mixed data into good and bad classes is shown in while the original data are shown in . The right upper half near the nipple marked with the white circle had a broken ring of small white pixel dots less than millimeter in size each and connected in the outside right quadrant sharing the same texture of capillary shallow blood heat supply as the rest but they should not be there since the nipple does not usually have such an abnormal characteristics unless a stage zero ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS . Left top is good thermal class healthy tissue because it represents a large heat class that comes from the inside of the chest. Unless DCIS exists the nipple does not usually has such characteristic Ch. Gorman Rethinking Breast Cancer pp. 50 58 Feb. 18 2002 because the physiology of the breast suggests no existence of such heat sources around the normal healthy nipple.

According to Ch. Gorman Rethinking Breast Cancer pp. 50 58 Feb. 18 2002 around 83 of the tumors were formed in the upper breast hemisphere. That gave strong indication that the mentioned right nipple surrounding region could be a DCIS. Tracking IR imaging history or histology would indicate whether DCIS were present. Following the same line of argumentation the left breast shown in de mixed independent classes in could be considered to be healthy one since no such anomalies could be observed there. Here the texture representing blood heat supply comes all around the nipple without a break in the texture continuity.

The single pixel non linear blind de mixing algorithm of the present invention based on the feed forward Lagrange Constraint Neural Network LCNN and multiple spectral data per pixel increase the effectiveness of surveillance systems.

1. a two stage implementation of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure the unsupervised nonlinear feed forward Lagrange Constraint Neural Network LCNN signal and image classification algorithm according to Equations 1 52 and where in first stage includes linearization or rectification and the second stage includes linear deterministic blind signal separation algorithm applied on linearized or rectified data vector assuming that the linearity condition g x xis satisfied.

2. the linear version of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure the nonlinear feed forward LCCN algorithm as in feature 1. according to the linearity condition g x xfor unsupervised linear signal and image separation and classification as described by the Equations 1 52 the flow chart diagram of which has been shown in .

3. implementation of the linear non linear version of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure nonlinear or linear feed forward LCNN algorithm as in features 1. and 2. in a scalable way on analog and mixed analog and digital VLSI circuits based on the design shown in and and an example of such scalable solution for 0.25 micrometer VLSI implementation shown in .

4. implementation of the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure as an unsupervised nonlinear signal and image separation and classification algorithm coined Lagrange Constraint Neural Network feed forward LCNN as described by equations 1 52 and in features 1 and 2 on a digital signal processor DSP or Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA in accordance with the flow chart diagram shown in .

6. early breast pre cancer ductal carcinoma in situ tumor classification diagnosis and tracking by using multiple camera sensory system as discussed in feature 5 and the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure as a smart unsupervised feed forward LCNN algorithm as discussed in features 1 2 3 and 4.

7. tracking IR imaging history or histology by using a two camera single optical axis based sensory system as discussed in feature 5 and the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure as a smart unsupervised LCNN algorithm as discussed in features 1 2 3 and 5 in a way as discussed in feature 6.

8. in situ fiber optical data gathering by means of a multiple mode fiber optic recording as shown in and the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure as a smart unsupervised feed forward LCNN algorithm for image processing and classification as discussed in features 1 2 3 and 4.

9. passive detection of blockages in the human body fluid circulatory system using the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure as an unsupervised LCNN algorithm as discussed in features 1 2 3 and 4 and multiple sensors based imagining and diagnostic equipment as discussed in features 5 6 7 and 8 and infrared imaging as well as to passively detect blockages in the body fluid circulatory system that might be of importance for coronary artery bypass surgery diabetes and deep vein thrombosis.

10. passive detection and diagnosis of rheumatic arthritis by means of two camera single optical axis based sensory system as discussed in feature 5. and the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure as a smart unsupervised feed forward LCNN algorithm as discussed in features 1. 2 3 and 4.

11. selective amplification hearing aids through de noise echo cancellation and signal classification simultaneously by means of two ear binaural processing as shown in and based on the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure as an unsupervised nonlinear or linear feed forward LCNN algorithm as discussed in features 1. 2. 3. and 4.

In addition the single pixel non linear blind de mixing procedure of the present invention can be used to enable a digital local thermometer to detect early pre cancer in a home screening environment using a single camera in which an exposure is taken of a particular body area the film used is electric film such as a charge coupled device CCD and is placed in electronic or freon cooling refrigeration overnight and a second exposure of the same body area is taken using the same camera and the same film the next day. Multiple wavelengths including middle IR 3 5 micrometers and long IR 8 12 micro eters are used and the film is cryogenically cooled. Temporal integration is applied such that the sequence is picture cooling picture again the next day thus eliminating thermal noise Brownian motion noise .

In addition the Fast Simulated Annealing algorithm by H. Szu is used to seek the global minimum of Helmholtz Free energy of the isothermal system.

The present invention measures multiple radiation components forming a data vector per single pixel X X X . . . in order to determine uniquely the underlying sources forming a source vector S S S . . . propagating through a nonlinear mixing medium. The present invention adopts that the thermal diffusion is constrained isothermally at the equilibrium free energy known as Helmholtz free energy H E TS where E is the energy T is the equilibrium reservoir temperature and S denotes the classical Shannon information theory entropy. In this sense the present invention generalizes the classical Shannon information theory which states the special case of a closed system E 0 and the entropy must be evolving toward the maximum for the absolute equilibrium. The present invention postulates the state of an open equilibrium system defined by the feed forward first order error energy E X S g W X S which can be reduced to the second order Least Mean Square LMS error energy for a specific Lagrange constraint vector . The present invention seeks among all possible vector sources S S S . . . the one that satisfies the minimum H for arbitrary mixing matrix A and smooth nonlinearity g X g A S. This physical condition of isothermal equilibrium is a strong constraint which permits the present invention to invert the single pixel data blindly for S without knowing ahead the mixing matrix and non linearity.

Moreover the practice of this patent has demonstrated the possibility of an early malign tumor detection by taking two pictures using two spectral cameras non intrusively. Each pair of input pixel data vector has two components a long wavelength 8 12 micrometer and a middle wavelength 3 5 micrometer . Such a pair per pixel is defined as a vector X pixel t X pixel t X pixel t where t indicates a repetition time that can reveal the growth of a malign tumor which is usually mixed with a benign one in terms of a unknown percentage source vector S pixel t S pixel t S pixel t . This expectation is realistic because the physics of radiation source indicates a shift toward a shorter wavelength spectrum X pixel t associated with the massive nutrition feed of a warmer lymph and blood toward a rapid growth of a malign tumor biologically known as the Angiogenesis property . Then the quantitative value of the malign tumor source S pixel t S pixel t S pixel t can be determined by imposing the generalized information theory at a local equilibrium in terms of the Helmholtz free energy.

The present invention furthermore generalizes the physical demixing system to include brain like unsupervised learning artificial neural networks. The present invention observes that input pairs e.g. two eyes Xand X can stimulate the binding of otherwise random brain waves which must diffuse to make room and save the energy E at an isothermal reservoir brain temperature T known as the cybernetic temperature of biological homeostasis theory .

The system also includes permanent or removable storage such as magnetic and optical discs RAM ROM etc. on which the process and data structures of the present invention can be stored and distributed. The processes can also be distributed via for example downloading over a network such as the Internet.

The many features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the detailed specification and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

