---

title: Fast-scanning SPM and method of operating same
abstract: A method and apparatus are provided that have the capability of rapidly scanning a large sample of arbitrary characteristics under force control feedback so has to obtain a high resolution image. The method includes generating relative scanning movement between a probe of the SPM and a sample to scan the probe through a scan range of at least 4 microns at a rate of at least 30 lines/sec and controlling probe-sample interaction with a force control slew rate of at least 1 mm/sec. A preferred SPM capable of achieving these results has a force controller having a force control bandwidth of at least closed loop bandwidth of at least 10 kHz.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07770231&OS=07770231&RS=07770231
owner: Veeco Instruments, Inc.
number: 07770231
owner_city: Plainview
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070802
---
This invention was made with United States government support awarded by the following agency NIST ATP Award 70NANB4H3055 . The United States has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed to scanning probe microscopes SPMs and more particularly relates to a SPM that can acquire high quality images at high acquisition rates and to a method of operating such an SPM.

Scanning probe microscopes SPMs such as the atomic force microscope AFM are devices which typically use a tip and low tip sample interaction forces to characterize the surface of a sample down to atomic dimensions. Generally SPMs include a probe having a tip that is introduced to a surface of a sample to detect changes in the characteristics of a sample. By providing relative scanning movement between the tip and the sample characteristic data can be acquired over a particular region of the sample and a corresponding map of the sample can be generated.

The atomic force microscope AFM is a very popular type of SPM. A typical AFM is shown schematically in . AFM employs a probe having a cantilever and a tip . Scanner generates relative motion between the probe and a sample while the probe sample interaction is monitored. In this way images or other measurements of the sample can be obtained. Scanner typically includes one or more actuators that usually generate motion in three orthogonal directions XYZ . Scanner may be a single integrated unit such as a piezoelectric tube actuator that moves either the sample or the probe in all three axes. It moves the probe in the illustrated example. Alternatively the scanner may be an assembly of multiple separate actuators. Some AFMs separate the scanner into multiple components for example an xy actuator that moves the sample and a separate z actuator that moves the probe. Probe is often coupled to an oscillating actuator or drive that is used to drive probe at or near a resonant frequency of cantilever . Alternative arrangements measure the deflection torsion or other motion of cantilever . Probe is often formed from a microfabricated cantilever with an integrated tip .

If the AFM is configured for an oscillation mode of operation an electronic signal is applied from an AC signal source under control of a probe sample interaction is typically controlled via force control feedback by controller . Motion of the cantilever is monitored by directing a sensing light beam from a sensing light source not shown such as a laser to the backside of cantilever . The beam is then reflected towards a detector such as a four quadrant photodetector. As the beam translates across detector appropriate signals are transmitted to controller which processes the signals to determine changes in the oscillation of probe .

Controller generates control signals to maintain either a relative constant interaction between the tip and sample or a constant deflection of the cantilever . Measurement involves controlling the scanner to move either the sample or the probe the probe in the present example up and down relatively perpendicular to the surface of the sample under feedback. The scanner is controlled to perform a scan operation by effecting relative probe sample motion in an x y plane that is at least generally parallel to the surface of the sample . Note that many samples have roughness curvature and tilt that deviate from a flat plane hence the use of the term generally parallel. The term parallel may also be used herein and should be construed to also mean generally parallel. The scan typically takes the form of a raster scan in which data is taken along lines in the x direction that are closely spaced in the y direction. The maximum length of the lines in the x direction is known as the scan range. In this way the data associated with this vertical motion can be stored and then used to construct an image of the sample surface corresponding to the sample characteristic being measured e.g. surface topography.

The measured characteristic of probe sample interaction will depend in part on the AFM s intended mode of operation. That is AFMs may be designed to operate in a variety of modes including contact mode and oscillating mode. In contact mode the probe is lowered into interaction with the sample and cantilever deflection or a related characteristic is monitored and controlled to a setpoint. In an oscillating mode such as the popular mode known as TappingMode TappingMode is a trademark owned by the present assignee the probe is oscillated by a probe oscillator via an AC signal source at or near a resonant frequency of the cantilever . A force control loop attempts to maintain the amplitude of this oscillation at a desired setpoint value to minimize the tracking force i.e. the force resulting from tip sample interaction. Alternative feedback arrangements keep the phase and or oscillation frequency constant or a combination of the above. As in contact mode these feedback signals are then collected stored and used as data to characterize the sample.

Regardless of their mode of operation AFMs can obtain resolution down to the atomic level on a wide variety of insulating or conductive surfaces in air liquid or vacuum by using piezoelectric scanners optical lever deflection detectors and very small cantilevers fabricated using photolithographic techniques. Because of their resolution and versatility AFMs are important measurement devices in many diverse fields ranging from semiconductor manufacturing to biological research.

The most broadly adopted commercial SPMs usually require a total scan time of several minutes to cover an area of several square microns at high resolution e.g. 512 512 pixels low tracking force and high image quality. In general the practical limit of SPM scan speed is a result of the maximum speed at which the SPM can be scanned while maintaining a tracking force that is low enough not to damage the tip and or sample or to at least limit the damage to the tip and or sample to acceptable levels.

Recent work in high speed SPM has been performed by a number of groups including for example the research groups of Paul Hansma at the University of California Toshio Ando of Kanazawa University Mervyn Miles at the University of Bristol the Frenken Group at the University of Leiden and commercial companies such as Olympus and Infinitesima.

Obtaining a high quality high speed AFM image demands outstanding performance of each and every major sub system of the AFM. Just as the strength of a chain is governed by the weakest link the performance of a high speed AFM is often governed by its weakest or slowest subsystem. An AFM subsystem that fails to provide the necessary range speed bandwidth slew rate linearity etc. will either lead to diminished performance of the overall system and or unacceptable flaws in the image quality. Despite some excellent progress earlier SPM systems have not achieved the suite of simultaneous performance metrics required to broadly enable applicable high speed AFM.

In accordance with a first aspect of the invention a method is provided that has the capability of rapidly scanning a large sample of arbitrary characteristics so as to obtain a high quality high resolution image. The method includes generating relative scanning movement between a probe of the SPM and a sample to scan the probe through a scan range of at least 4 microns at a rate of at least 30 lines sec. and controlling probe sample interaction with a force control slew rate of at least 1 mm sec.

In order to minimize the effects of noise on the acquired signals measures are taken to attenuate noise in the actuator position compared to noise exhibited by the position sensor within a scan bandwidth equal to about seven times the scan frequency. These measures preferably take the combination of a feed forward control and a feedback control in all three principal directions. The feed forward control may include using an inversion based control algorithm that uses a transfer function associated with the actuator.

A SPM configured in accordance with the invention could be used to scan a wide variety of conductive or non conductive samples including patterned wafers biological samples polymers thin films and data storage device components. Embodiments of the current invention can scan samples with an RMS roughness of greater than 5 nm scan samples with aspect ratios 5 1 and scan highly corrugated samples such as trenches and vias with high a steep step like structures greater than 50 nm in height.

Scanning may take place under force feedback to prevent or reduce wear or damage of the tip or sample.

In order to facilitate performance of this method the SPM may have a relatively stiff relatively light weight tip scanner having a high fundamental resonant frequency. The tip scanner has a lowest fundamental resonant frequency greater than 5 kHz preferably greater than 7 kHz and even more preferably greater than 10 kHz. It preferably incorporates an optical objective most preferably a scanned objective that may or may not be moved by the actuator. The objective focuses sensing and illumination light on the probe of the SPM. The objective may be vertically movable within the scan head to increase the focus range for a laser or other sensing light source permitting the use of a relatively high cantilever with a commensurately high resonant frequency. The movable objective also permits illumination light to be focused on distinctly spaced objects such as the probe and a sample surface located well beneath the probe. The objective may also be a tracking objective that moves with the scanner in the x y plane to allow a sensing light beam s focused spot to at least generally follow the scanning motion of probe during scanning. Optics may be provided to permit panning of both the illumination beam of an integrated optical microscope and the sensing light beam as a unit. This panning permits the alignment or targeting of the focused sensing light beam on the cantilever under direct or indirect visual inspection of the focused illumination beam. This alignment or targeting permits the use of an even smaller cantilever with a commensurately smaller resonant frequency.

The probe may include a high bandwidth microfabricated cantilever with an integrated tip. The microfabrication may be performed using an ectro chemicals etch to define cantilever length. The probe may have a force detection bandwidth greater than 30 kHz apply a force to the sample of less than 10 nN when activated in oscillation mode and have a step response time of about 10 s.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a SPM is provided comprising a probe a scanner that generates relative motion between the probe and a sample over a scan range of at least 4 m at a rate of at least 30 lines sec. and a force controller that controls probe sample interaction under closed loop feedback the force controller having a force control bandwidth of at least 5 kHz. The force feedback controller may be formed by the combination of a z actuator a controller and a detector.

These and other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the present invention are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such modifications.

As discussed in the Summary section above the invention relates to a fast acting scanning probe microscope SPM such as an atomic force microscope AFM and to its method of operation. The preferred SPM has the ability to obtain high quality images while scanning large samples at high speeds.

A preferred embodiment of a SPM in the form of an AFM will now be described that achieves these and many other goals it being understood that AFMs and other SPMs may be provided that fall within the scope of the present invention.

The preferred AFM as illustrated and described herein includes several refinements when compared to prior art AFMs namely 

As mentioned previously prior SPMs have been limited by parameters including their xy and z range their force control bandwidth and slew rate and xy scan speed. We will now describe how the innovations of the current invention enable breakthrough performance compared to prior AFMs. We will first describe the key elements referring to a simplified conceptual diagram and then move to more detailed descriptions of key elements.

Referring to a high bandwidth AFM probe is scanned relative to a sample using a high resonance scanner . High bandwidth probe typically includes a cantilever and a tip mounted on the free end portion of the cantilever . Alternatively high bandwidth probe may comprise a membrane supporting a tip or arbitrarily complex geometry that allows bending or flexing of a portion of the probe to enable motion of the tip . Cantilever or other tip support of high bandwidth probe preferably has a response bandwidth in excess of 10 kHz and more preferably in excess of 50 kHz. High bandwidth scanner moves the probe to generate relative motion between the tip and sample . In this arrangement the system can scan even large and or heavy samples as the dynamics of scanner are not affected by the sample size and mass. Scanner preferably has a loaded fundamental resonant frequency in excess of 5 kHz and more preferably in excess of 10 kHz and may be used to generate scan motion at scan rates in excess of 30 lines sec. more preferably in excess of 100 lines sec. and most preferably in excess of 1000 lines sec. Scan controller generates control signals to enable high speed motion of tip scanner . In the embodiment shown the probe is scanned by scanner but many of the fast scan advantages described in this specification can also be obtained by physically scanning a sample instead of or in addition to the probe.

Probe tip may be oscillated for use in TappingMode non contact mode Torsional Resonance mode TR Mode torsional harmonic mode Harmonix and or other oscillating tip modes. In this case the tip is usually oscillated at or near a resonance of the cantilever or another tip support such as a membrane . Such cantilever or membrane or similar tip support preferably has a resonant frequency in excess of 800 kHz more preferably in excess of 1 MHz and even more preferably in excess of 5 MHz. Alternatively the probe tip may be operated in contact mode.

Interactions of probe tip with the surface of sample result in changes in the motion of the probe tip . This motion may be detected by a variety of techniques including the well known optical lever technique by an optical interferometer a Doppler Vibrometer or by capacitive piezoelectric or piezoresistive detection. Alternative techniques that produce a signal indicative of the motion and or position of the probe may also be employed. In the case of optical detection techniques a light beam is transmitted through scanning lenses and and then reflected or scattered off the cantilever and is received by a detector . Scanning lenses and may be moved by scanner such that their motion is synchronous with that of the tip. In this way the focused spot created by the lenses tracks the moving cantilever. Detector has a bandwidth sufficient to detect the motion of probe tip . Typically this implies that the detector has a bandwidth in excess of the frequency at which the probe tip is oscillated and or higher than the frequency of motions to be detected as a result of the tip sample interactions as the tip is scanned over the sample.

A high bandwidth high slew rate force controller is used to minimize or otherwise control the tip surface interaction. The force controller is often employed to minimize tip and sample damage during these high scan speeds. The force controller may also be used to maintain the AFM at a specific level of interaction and or a specific tip sample distance. Force controller sends control signals to a high bandwidth high slew rate z actuator that is used to adjust the relative tip sample distance. Force controller preferably has a closed loop force control bandwidth in excess of 10 kHz and more preferably in excess of 50 kHz and most preferably in excess of 100 kHz. In addition force controller in combination with z actuator preferably has a slew rate in excess of 1 mm sec more preferably in excess of 4 mm sec and most preferably in excess of 7 mm sec.

Preferred performance characteristics of a system constructed in accordance with the invention are summarized in Table 1 

To our knowledge no other prior art SPM achieves the combination of performance characteristics comprising even the first or preferred performance column. The inventors however have achieved a combination of performance characteristics exceeding the More Preferred Performance column using the techniques described in this specification. Additionally the inventors have designed and successfully tested subsystems that accomplish the performance of the Most Preferred Performance column. It is believed that the information provided herein readily enables construction of a system that achieves the characteristics listed in the Most Preferred Performance column. These combinations of performance characteristics enable an unprecedented combination of scan speed scan range image quality and force control. Additional breakthrough performance of various subsystems will be described below.

The inventors have used the AFMs as described herein to obtain high quality AFM images of a wide variety of samples with surprisingly good results. shows some representative images taken on one embodiment of the current invention. shows a comparison of a TappingMode phase image acquired using for example the techniques described in U.S. Pat. No. RE36 488 of a copolymer sample taken using a conventional AFM and using a high speed AFM constructed in accordance with the current invention . The images were both obtained while scanning at 79 lines sec. Conventional AFMs typically measure such samples at rates under a few lines per second. Notice from that the image from the conventional AFM shows many artifacts of poor force control white spots and streaks one example is labeled as PQ and a loss of resolution and contrast when used at high speed. The high speed AFM image of by comparison shows a very clear high resolution image.

The following section will outline some of the key advances that were required to enable the performance described above.

Together the cantilever probe force controller and z actuator s form part of a force control loop. The force control loop may also contain many variations of optical optoelectronic analog and or electronics connecting these main components. As mentioned previously a practical limit of AFM or other SPM scan speed is a result of the maximum speed at which the SPM can be scanned while maintaining a tracking force that is low enough to cause minimal or no damage to the tip and or the sample. The force control loop is used to adjust the relative position of the AFM probe to track variations in the sample surface and to attempt to keep the tip sample interaction force below acceptable damage thresholds. The performance of the force control loop is governed in part by three key figures of merit force control bandwidth slew rate and range.

We will first discuss force control bandwidth. In the case of a system with a DC response and high frequency cutoff the force control bandwidth can be expressed as the frequency at which a small amplitude input signal is attenuated by 3 dB compared to the DC response. As the AFM tip scans over a sample surface spatial variations in the sample surface turn into time variations in the measured cantilever response. For example consider an AFM probe scanning over a sinusoidal surface with a period of 100 nm. If this sample is scanned at a rate of 100 lines per second over a scan range of 10 um the resulting signal detected by the AFM probe would have frequency fgiven by 2 100 lines sec 10 um 100 nm 20 kHz.

 The factor of 2 in this illustrative example comes from the common but not required practice of scanning a sample in two directions so called trace and retrace. 

If the force control feedback loop were 20 kHz the amplitude of the sinusoidal features would be attenuated by 3 dB at the force controller output. Using the components described in this specification the current inventors have developed a force control loop with a bandwidth exceeding 100 kHz for contact mode AFM and exceeding 15 kHz for TappingMode or other oscillating tip imaging modes. Note however that it is still possible to get information about sample features at frequencies higher than the bandwidth of the force controller by recording the error signal i.e. a signal representative of the difference between the cantilever s actual motion and the setpoint of the force controller. In a preferred embodiment both the error signal and the motion of the z actuator s are used to reconstruct an accurate measurement of the topography of the sample.

As mentioned previously one limit of SPM performance is the speed at which the tip can be scanned over the sample without causing unacceptable damage to the tip and or sample. Damage to tips and or samples may occur during scanning if the topography of a sample is changing faster than the force feedback loop can respond. In this case a force error will accumulate. When the force error leads to a stress larger than the tip and or sample can accommodate damage can occur. This problem can be mitigated using cantilevers with spring constants low enough such that uncompensated force variations are small. While the yield stress is different for different tip and sample materials it is desirable to create a system with as high of a force control bandwidth as possible.

The next figure of merit is force control slew rate or simply slew rate. The slew rate of the force control loop is the rate at which the control loop can drive an actuator to move the tip to climb a sharp edge and is stated in terms of distance per unit time. The challenges incident to climbing such an edge can be appreciated with reference to which shows a sample feature of arbitrary cross sectional shape with first and vertical second sidewalls and of a common maximum height h. Any point along those sidewalls will have a height hsomewhere between 0 assuming that the base of the feature is at a reference plane of 0 height and h. A SPM that does not image that feature perfectly will generate an image shown in dotted lines and in in which at least some of the determined heights hwill deviate from the corresponding actual heights h. The magnitude of the resulting error at any given point is the difference h h. The largest such error typically occurring at the leading edge of the first wall and the trailing edge of the second wall is the peak error seen at points and in the curve of is e. The desired slew rate for a system is one that maintains that error to within acceptable limits while avoiding damage to the tip and or sample.

In practice the required slew rate for a particular system is given by the xy scan speed and the angle of the tip. More specifically the required slew rate Vin the z direction is given by 

High force slew rates Vare especially important when the probe must follow steep features for example a trench or a step. The slew rate Vgoverns the voltage that the amplifier of can apply to enable actuator to follow steep features. For example scanning a vertical step at 100 Hz in the fast scan or x direction with a maximum scan range of 10 um would imply an x slew rate Vof 10 um 100 Hz 1 mm sec. With a tip half angle of 10 the desired z actuator slew rate would be 5.7 mm sec.

In one embodiment of the current invention the AFM s force controller employs integral feedback to control the tip sample interaction force. In the case of first order integral feedback when the tip is attempting to track a sloped feature a steady state error will occur. The amplitude of the error is given by K Equation 2

Consider a specific example for the purposes of illustration. In traditional TappingMode or non contact mode it is generally desirable that the amplitude error not exceed the oscillation amplitude of the cantilever. In the case that an error exceeds the oscillation amplitude the cantilever tip may come into static contact with the sample generating larger forces than desired. If we consider a cantilever oscillating with an amplitude of 50 nm for example we would generally hope to avoid position errors e of greater than 50 nm. In contact mode it is often desirable to limit the tip sample interaction force by controlling the maximum deflection of the cantilever. Often the maximum desired cantilever deflection is in the same range of a few to tens of nm. For our example take a maximum desired error of 50 nm. If we use e 50 nm and V 5.7 mm sec from the example above one should endeavor to build a system with a velocity loop gain of 5.7 mm sec 50 m 114 000 s. Equation 4

For smaller acceptable errors or larger slew rates one should target a higher K. The current inventors have achieved a velocity loop gain of 140 000. Note that the required Kwill depend on the topography and toughness of a given sample and tip. Thus the broadest range of samples may be successfully imaged with the highest K. 

Velocity loop gain Kis a figure of merit for a first order integral feedback loop. In a traditional PI feedback loop the maximum value of the gain Kis set by a stability requirement that the system gain must be less than one at a phase shift of 180 . At gains higher than 1 unstable positive feedback exists. The limiting value of the dc gain Kis often set by electro mechanical resonances and or phase shifts of an SPM system. These resonances generate peaks in the gain versus frequency that would push the system gain over unity at 180 if the value of the dc gain is too high. For a system with a dominant resonance at frequency fand quality factor Q the limiting value of Kis given by 2 Equation 5

 AFM systems with more complex resonant behavior may have more complicated stability criteria especially in the case of multiple closely spaced resonances. The current inventors have designed a scanned tip AFM system with a lowest dominant resonant frequency in the force control loop of 90 kHz with a Q of 4. Thus the velocity loop gain is given by K 2 70 kHz 4 140 000 s. With an allowed amplitude error of 50 nm this supports a slew rate Vof 140 000 s 50 nm 7.0 mm sec.

Note that the previous discussion has been for the purposes of illustration and it is possible to construct and implement much more sophisticated force control algorithms that enable higher slew rates and force control bandwidths. For instance it is possible to decrease the impact of resonance by mechanically electronically and or digitally suppressing the amplitude response of the system at specific frequencies. This has the effect of damping the quality factor Q of the resonance allowing higher values of K and hence higher slew rates. For example several groups have developed model based control schemes. Authors on this subject include Stemmer Schitter Ando Salapaka and Zhou for example. In a typical model based SPM control scheme the dynamic performance of one or more actuator is measured and an optimal open loop control scheme is designed to minimize unwanted excitation resonances. A typical first step is system identification which is a procedure that maps the amplitude and phase response of the scanner versus frequency resulting in characteristics called the transfer function. This transfer function is used then to calculate an optimal controller that achieves the highest scanner bandwidth while attempting to minimize the oscillation of unwanted resonances. Typical strategies include H infinity or H2 controllers that are described in the literature. In any case it is desirable to implement the control systems and their subcomponents to support the maintenance of a steady state error e to control tip sample damage.

Returning to the major metric of slew rate the current inventors have achieved closed loop force control slew rates in excess of 7 mm sec in contact mode using designs described in this specification. To achieve these rates the inventors have developed the following key capabilities 1 a z actuator thus is capable of holding and moving an AFM tip and that has a fundamental resonant frequency as high as 90 kHz 2 high voltage amplifiers to drive the z actuator with sufficient power and bandwidth 3 feedback electronics fast enough to take advantage of this fast z actuator. Each of these capabilities will be discussed in follow sections.

The inventors have built several embodiments of the current invention realizing improvements in bandwidth slew rate range and other major advantages. One such embodiment is shown in . This embodiment was built on a modified Dimension CL AFM head manufactured by the assignee Veeco Instruments. The AFM is a scanning tip AFM with optical tracing as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 032 518 5 714 682 5 560 244 and 5 463 897 which are assigned to Veeco Instruments and which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Referring to fast actuator is formed of opposing piezoelectric stacks and . These piezo stacks are driven synchronously in opposite directions to minimize transmission of the high speed vertical motion to other parts of the AFM structure. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 483 6 861 489 and 6 590 208 which are assigned to Veeco Instruments and which are hereby incorporated by reference. The opposing piezo stacks and are mounted onto a mounting plate which is coupled to a slow z actuator which in this specific example is a portion of the piezoelectric tube actuator of the Dimension CL AFM head. A fast analog PI feedback controller is nested with slow PI feedback controller to control the tip sample interaction force. High voltage amplifiers and amplify control signals for the slow and fast actuators respectively. One of amplifiers has an adjustable gain such that the momentum of the two opposed z actuators and accurately cancel each other s motion. To achieve a high resonant frequency for the z actuator the inventors developed a mounting plate composed of two rigid metal half discs and with a layer of polymeric viscoelastic damping material shown in sandwiched between the half discs and . The mounting plate was designed using finite element analysis to be rigid enough such that the forces generated at the mounting surfaces of piezo stacks and are minimally transmitted to the supporting slow z actuator . A viscoelastic damping material not shown is also applied to the exterior surfaces of the piezo stacks and to reduce the quality factor Q of the actuators. Viscoelastic materials suitable for this are the layer between the disk halves and include but are not limited to modeling clay silicone rubber and other viscoelastic polymers.

To achieve scanning at rates in excess of 30 Hz with high linearity and image quality in this embodiment the inventors employed an iterative model based scan control as described in co pending and commonly assigned application Ser. No. 11 800 679 which is incorporated by reference. The model based control iteratively adjusted the scan waveform provided to the xy scanner to minimize parasitic resonances and nonlinear distortion of the scan.

The open loop z actuator dynamics of this design are shown by the curve in showing a fundamental resonant frequency of the actuator assembly of roughly 180 kHz at point . This AFM system was tested in closed loop operation according to the schematic of . This system achieved a closed loop bandwidth of 54 kHz and a step response slew rate of 5 mm sec. as shown by the curves and in respectively.

The inventors have also built additional embodiments surrounding an alternative AFM design using a flexure based scanner and a precision scanned objective. A simplified schematic diagram of the fast z actuator of this design is shown in . also shows a simplified schematic design of focus and viewing objective according to one embodiment of the invention. A sensing light beam passes through scanning lenses and to focus near the tip of probe . Lenses and are held in a lens mount that can be translated vertically relative to a sleeve . This relative motion allows the focal point of the objective to be adjusted to bring the probe or the sample not shown into focus. Probe is mounted below a liquid sealed window that is coupled to the sleeve . Also coupled to the sleeve is a high bandwidth z actuator .

The z actuator of the embodiment shown in is mounted in a way so as to minimize excitation of parasitic resonances of components of the scan head of FIGS. and . This can be accomplished for example by mounting the actuator on a very rigid mount that does not transmit vibrations to the surrounding structure. It could also be accomplished by a very compliant structure that absorbs vibrations and or by balancing the momentum of the z actuator as described previously.

Referring now to one embodiment of a z actuator usable in scanner of is shown. This embodiment was constructed using 2 3 3 mm piezo stack glued to a rigid mount . A thin metal membrane covers the moving end of the piezo stack . The membrane acts as a flexure that stiffens and guides the piezo stack to minimize unwanted motion of the probe. A wedge is mounted on the flexure membrane and the cantilever probe is mounted on the wedge. Using this design in combination with active damping of mechanical resonances of the system the inventors achieved a closed loop actuator bandwidth in excess of 100 kHz as shown in .

Referring now to in another embodiment the z actuator comprises a piezoelectric ring stack attached to a rigid mount . The piezoelectric ring stack is fastened to the rigid mount using a controlled thickness of a glue line . Steel balls with a diameter of 0.3 mm are inserted between the piezo stack and the rigid mount . The balls can accomplish two things. First they provide hard mechanical coupling between the rigid mounting surface and the piezo stack. Second they control the thickness of the glue line. A flexible epoxy for example Scotchweld 2216 was chosen as the glue to allow the mounting surface of the piezo stack to expand without creating unwanted strains in the piezo stack or the mounting surface that could cause parasitic coupling of the z actuator s motion to other axes and or other system components. A flexure is mounted across the face of the piezo ring stack stiffening and attenuating xz and yz bending modes that might otherwise be of a lower frequency than the desired extensional z axis mode. Note that the description of specific size balls epoxy selection and piezo ring stack are for purposes of enablement and example. Many alternative arrangements may also be employed.

We will now describe the details of the other subsystems of a complete scan head shown schematically in along with an AFM in which it is incorporated. That tip scanner is also described in co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 687 304 the 304 application and entitled the subject matter of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. It should be understood that a wide variety of other tip scanners and even sample scanners could also be employed without departing from the spirit of the present invention.

Turning to a FIGS. and the scan head of this embodiment has an x y actuator that bears a tracking objective as well as a z actuator . The scanner formed the moving components of x y actuator and the structure that moves with them move the probe or tip relative to the sample and can be thought of as a tip scanner. The tip scanner preferably has a lowest fundamental resonant frequency of a least 5 kHz more preferably of at least 7 kHz and even more preferably of at least 10 kHz. It also has a relatively large scan range in the x and or y directions preferably of at least 4 m more preferably of the least 15 m and even more preferably of 20 m or longer. The scan range will typically be the length of the scan in the long or x direction of a raster scan but that need not be the case. Scanning could also take place in the y direction or with an appropriately configured actuator along a curved line having both x and y components. A tip scanner achieving these characteristics in the x and or y directions is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Referring particularly to the tip scanner of the preferred embodiment is mounted on the scan head . The tip scanner includes the moving portion of the xy actuator and the structures that move with it namely the probe the z actuator and the objective . Note that the z actuator can alternatively or additionally be configured to be separate from the tip scanner and move the sample instead. Probe can also be actuated to move in the z direction using a z actuator .

The actuators for the x y and z axes are piezoelectric stacks in one embodiment. However they can also employ any number of alternative actuation technologies including but not limited to other piezoelectric devices actuators formed from electrostrictive magnetostrictive electrostatic inductive and or voice coil drive mechanisms and other actuators that generate a motion in response to an input signal. The x and y actuators may be integrated into an x y actuator or stage .

Referring again to the scan head also supports an optical microscope permitting the optical inspection of the sample. The microscope includes a portion of the optics as well as the objective . The optics direct both the illumination beam and the sensing light beam to the probe and direct the reflected sensing light beam to the detector and the reflected illumination beam to a receiver . The objective may additionally be focused on a sample that is beyond the position of the cantilever. In this case the illumination beam is focused on the sample and an image of the same is transmitted through the objective and to the receiver . The receiver may for instance be an imaging device such as a camera. A CCD camera is a suitable imaging device. Alternatively or additionally a separate light source and receiver could be provided on board and or off board the scan head . In addition to or instead of a camera the receiver could be the human eye.

The illumination beam may be any form of light that can be observed either visually or with suitable instrumentation. It may come from an ultra bright Light Emitting Diode LED or an incandescent fluorescent or arc based light source. It may be either monochromatic e.g. a red LED or a wider spectrum source approximating white light or even being white light.

The objective is located in the optical path from the optics to the probe . It may bear the z actuator and the probe so that all three devices move vertically as a unit. It may also be a scanned objective. That is it may be coupled to the x y actuator so that the objective z actuator and probe all move horizontally in the x y plane under the power of the x y actuator . In one preferred embodiment the objective accomplishes two tasks 1 focusing the sensing light beam onto the probe and 2 providing an optical image of the probe and or sample. In alternative embodiments the objective can be arranged to accomplish only one of these tasks and or additional tasks. In one preferred embodiment the objective focuses incoming sensing and illumination light on an object beneath the scan head typically the cantilever and or the sample. In addition in conjunction with the optics it directs outgoing illumination light to the receiver and outgoing sensing light to the detector . The outgoing illumination light forms an image of the object. A portion of the objective containing its optics can be driven to move in the z direction under power of a drive in order to extend the focus range of the objective as discussed below.

As discussed briefly above in connection with the optics and objective direct the incoming sensing light beam to the cantilever and direct the outgoing sensing light beam to the detector . The illumination beam is also directed to and from the objective by a mirror located above the remainder of the optics . A wide variety of arrangements and assemblies are capable of performing these functions. The design and implementation of such arrangements or assemblies are well within the knowledge of one skilled in the metrology art. One example is disclosed in detail in the above referenced 304 application which as discussed above is incorporated by reference. A collimating lens and an aperture are located upstream from the optics in the direction of incoming sensing light beam transmission. The collimating lens transforms incoming light into a beam of parallel rays. It could be formed integrally with or contained in the sensing light beam source . The aperture shapes the focused light beam at the cantilever plane so as to have a generally elliptical or rectangular shape having a relatively narrow width or minor diameter to minimize the spot size and also to maximize optical lever sensitivity. The minor diameter refers to the measurement of the spot size across the direction of least extent. This permits use of a smaller cantilever as described in detail below. Similarly shaped apertures such as ovoid apertures could also be used for this purpose. This does not mean that an aperture is mandatory to the system. An aperture could be eliminated entirely or replaced by a circular aperture in which case the minor diameter would be the only diameter.

Still referring to the optics include a device that deflects the shaped sensing light beam downwardly from the aperture . A standard mirror would be suitable for this purpose if some other mechanism were provided for directing the illumination beam through the objective . However in the example in which the illumination beam enters the objective directly from above the device may be a filter that is reflective of the wavelengths of the sensing light beam on the order of 690 nm or higher for a red laser diode and that is transmissive of the wavelengths of the illumination beam generally covering a wide range of the visible light spectrum. For an alternate preferred embodiment employing an infrared light source for the sensing beam the cutoff wavelength for filter would be correspondingly higher. A prism having two effective mirrors is provided for directing outgoing sensing light to a mirror . The mirror then deflects the reflected light upwardly to the detector .

Referring to in one embodiment the objective is a dual lens achromatic objective. It includes first and second vertically spaced lens assemblies and that focus an incoming sensing light beam to a focal point which ideally is located on the back surface of the cantilever . Each of the lens assemblies and of this specific embodiment is formed from two lenses affixed to one another. This combination of four lenses reduces the aberration of the objective to the levels desired to both focus the sensing light beam onto the probe and provide a high quality color image of the sample from the illumination beam. Lenses and may be achromatic doublets. Each lens may be customized to provide bright optical imaging and to provide a relatively broad wavelength spectrum.

The lenses of the currently desired embodiment were custom designed using ZEMAX lens optimization software to minimize the optical path difference over the wavelengths of the illumination beam. In one embodiment the lens assembly has a working distance of greater than 8 mm and more preferably greater than 10 mm.

The objective may also be relatively wide so as to provide a relatively large numerical aperture NA to accommodate significant cantilever bending typically on the order of 4 . One preferred objective has an NA of more than about 0.28 preferably more than about 0.35 and most preferably of about 0.40. In one preferred embodiment the light path for the illumination beam and the probe sample imaging system is stepped down due to a numerical aperture of 0.28 to keep the aberrations at an acceptable level for the probe sample image. A larger fraction of the objective is used to accommodate the reflected sensing light beam.

This combination of large numerical aperture and careful attention to minimizing aberrations produces the desired small laser spot diameter of less than 20 m preferably less than 10 m and most preferably of about 5 m.

While the above description outlines the objective construction in one preferred embodiment it is also possible to use a wide variety of different objective arrangements including more or fewer lenses. For a design that is optimized for maximum scan speed at the possible expense of image quality it is possible to replace the four element objective with a single lens objective. Aspheric lenses for example formed from lighter weight plastics can achieve the combination of low aberration wide NA and low mass. Conventional stock lenses can also be used in a wide variety of configurations to form a suitable objective.

Referring now to and initially to a preferred embodiment of the scan head is shown less schematically. Scan head includes an enclosed housing having upper and lower surfaces left and right surfaces and front and rear surfaces . A first aperture is formed in the front surface for receiving a window for the illumination light beam and a second aperture is formed in the bottom surface for receiving objective housing . First and second knobs extend from the right and front surfaces and and third and fourth knobs and extend upward from the upper surface . The first and second knobs and are threaded into a support in the scan head and engage a carriage that bears the detector . These knobs and can be manipulated to position the carriage in the x y plane to assure that the detector is centered over the incoming sensing light beam. This permits the use of a smaller detector potentially further increasing scan rate.

The objective may be mounted in the scan head so as to permit the objective to be moved up and down relative to the probe to increase the range of focus of the objective hence permitting the use of a smaller cantilever and potentially further increasing scan rate. This vertical measurement also permits focusing of the illumination beam on an object beneath the cantilever . This facilitates for example sample inspection in preparation for probe sample engagement. It also is of relatively low mass so as to not significantly decrease the scanner s fundamental resonant frequency and hence maintain high scan rates. Toward this end the lenses and that form the optics of the objective are mounted in the housing or barrel as seen in so as to be movable vertically relative to the barrel. The barrel is mounted on the xy actuator . One preferred arrangement for the mounting of the barrel on the xy actuator is shown in . Before describing a preferred arrangement in detail it should be noted that an xy actuator that is generally of the type described herein was developed by Dr. Paul Hansma s research group and is assigned to The Regents of the University of California. It is described e.g. in published U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 2006 0112760 the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The illustrated arrangement includes a rigid mounting plate or scanner stage fixed to the interior support of the scan head . The rigid mounting plate has a generally cross shaped aperture formed centrally therein that has two sets of orthogonally arranged x and y segments and . Two sets of x and y piezoelectric actuators and extend longitudinally along the centers of the respective segments . One of the x actuator sets will now be described it being understood that this description applies equally to the other x actuator and the y actuators as well. One actuator of each set has an outer end mounted on the end of the respective aperture segment by a mount and an inner end supported on a central flexure that spans the aperture segment . The other actuator of each set has an outer end connected to the central flexure and an inner end connected to a second flexure that also spans the aperture segment . The first or central flexure of each set is not required but is beneficial because it increases the lowest resonant frequency of the associated piezoelectric actuator.

Actuators and in combination with the flexures and provide an effective stiffness that when loaded by the moving mass of the scanner is designed to provide a fundamental resonant frequency of the scanner of at least 2 kHz more preferably of at least 5 kHz and even more preferably of more than 9 kHz. The significance of this feature will now be explained.

In scanning probe microscopes feedback loops are used for multiple purposes. First a feedback loop is used to attempt to maintain a relatively constant value of average tip sample interaction by maintaining constant cantilever deflection amplitude phase and or frequency. This is often referred to as the z feedback loop. The speed of the z feedback loop is governed by the speed of the cantilever response the z actuator and any associated electronics and amplifiers in the feedback loop. Another common form of feedback is position feedback. This type of feedback attempts to control the relative x y position of the scanner to compensate for thermal drift nonlinearities hysteresis and or creep in the actuator.

The fundamental resonant frequency Fof a scanner can limit the usable feedback bandwidth of the scanner. In general the dynamic behavior of a mechanical system is determined by the fundamental resonant frequency. The fundamental resonant frequency is characterized by a sharp increase in phase lag and gain in the frequency response of a mechanical system. The addition of feedback control is used to modify the dynamic behavior by changing the gain and phase of a system as a function of frequency. For example consider a simple feedback loop for example a PI proportional integral feedback loop common in probe microscopy. This type of control applies the sum of a constant gain proportional with that of 20 db decade gain with 90 phase lag integral gain . This feedback loop goes unstable as the gain is more than one at a phase shift of 180 . In this case positive feedback occurs and the control loop becomes unstable. When a mechanical body goes through a simple resonance 90 degrees of phase shift are accumulated at the resonant peak and there is generally an amplification of the actuator gain. Real mechanical systems often have more complex phase behavior. The controller gains are typically adjusted to roll off the overall system gain as the frequency approaches the actuator resonance. This strategy removes under damped behavior in the control loop by minimizing the gain and reducing the phase lag near the fundamental resonant frequency. In practice the feedback gains may be reduced even well below those at the limit of stability to provide less overshoot in response to a step. In general these steps will reduce the scanner system s usable bandwidth to a fraction of the fundamental resonant frequency. Advanced control algorithms can mitigate the impact of these resonant frequencies. For x y scan motion the bandwidth of the scanner is typically limited by resonances of the x y scanner and or resonances in the z direction that couple to x y motion. For the z axis the feedback bandwidth may also be significantly limited by the cantilever response time in addition to or instead of the z actuator resonance.

For the purposes of this application the term fundamental resonant frequency is defined to be the lowest frequency at which there is a scanner resonance that has an impact on the usable bandwidth of a scanner. This definition of lowest fundamental resonant frequency specifically excludes those resonances that have no significant impact on the usable bandwidth of the scanner. These minor resonances may cause a variation in the system gain over a frequency range but do not serve as a major limit for the feedback loop stability.

In a mechanical system additional resonant behavior may exist in the frequency response at frequencies less than the fundamental resonant frequency. This resonant behavior does not affect the usable bandwidth if it is over damped in nature due to a limited amount of associated phase lag and or it is not of sufficient amplitude to be readily observed by the probe microscope electronics. The typical signature of a fundamental resonant frequency that limit the bandwidth of a scanner is a frequency with a 90 or more phase shift at the resonance peak that is observed by the probe microscope system electronics. To be observed a resonance must be one which generates an under damped response of sufficient magnitude to be detectable by an actuator position sensor such as one of the sensors discussed below and or the detector and their associated electronics. The reason for this caveat in the definition of fundamental resonant frequency is that it is possible to construct a tip scanner that has a component for example a cantilever spring clip with a resonant frequency that is very low and yet does not affect the scanner performance.

By the definition above the fundamental resonant frequency of the tip scanner assembly of the preferred embodiment is about 9.4 kHz. The lowest resonant mode is a vertical or z axis drumhead mode where the objective oscillates up and down relative to the x y plane of the scanner.

To keep this resonance high for a given scanner mass the fundamental resonant frequency can be increased by making flexures and that are very stiff against vertical bending and torsional rotation and by making flexures extremely stiff against vertical bending. The net effect of these optimizations is to make the vertical stiffness of the tip scanner very high. In one preferred embodiment the vertical stiffness of the tip scanner is designed to be about 10N m. An approximation of the fundamental resonant frequency is given by 

The effective mass of the scanner of this specific embodiment is about 35 grams. Using the formula above would predict a lowest frequency of the order of 8 kHz. In practice the resonant frequency calculation is more complex for distributed mass and spring systems such as the described scanner. As such the described scanner was designed and optimized using a combination of analytical calculations in Matlab computing software by The Math Works in combination with finite element analysis. Using finite element analysis and measurements of the tip scanner prototype the inventors achieved lowest vertical resonant frequencies in excess of 9 kHz when loaded with the objective.

The torsional and bending stiffness of the flexure elements depends on the length height and thickness of the flexure elements. These relationships are well known or at least readily available to those skilled in the art. For instance they are available from various engineering texts by finite element analysis or by physical measurement. In general terms it is desirable to make the length as short as practical and the height and thickness as large as practical. The practical limit to this optimization is when the bending stiffness in the desired direction of motion becomes so high that it resists the motion of the actuators.

In practice the flexure elements and have been designed to be so stiff that they reduce the range of motion of actuators and as shown in Equation 7 below.

To achieve high resonant frequencies of the assembled scanner system the flexures and are designed to have a stiffness in the direction of motion of 10 30 of the stiffness of actuators and . This allows an acceptable trade off of the scan range versus stiffness of the actuators to ensure that the combined system has a high lowest fundamental resonant frequency. In one embodiment for example a sacrifice of roughly 20 of the 22 m range of the free actuator range achieves a stiffness sufficient for a resonant frequency of around 9.4 kHz while still achieving a scan size of 18 m.

In a preferred embodiment the actuators and are combinations of sets of two 5 mm 5 mm 13.5 mm piezo stacks and two 5 mm 5 mm 9 mm stacks respectively. The combined stiffness of the actuator sets roughly 5 10N m in both the x and y directions. The total flexure stiffness was chosen to be around 1 10N m or 20 of the actuator stiffness. This large bending stiffness of the flexures also gives a slight increase 10 over the actuator stiffness.

Additionally the flexure materials and thicknesses of this embodiment have been chosen to ensure that the maximum stress in the flexures is well below yield stresses for those materials.

In one embodiment the scanner stage is constructed from an 7076 T6 aluminum alloy and design stresses were kept below 10 kpsi or under 14 of the yield stress. Alternative embodiments could also be constructed from invar for superior thermal expansion performance or titanium for example.

It can be seen that the second or innermost flexures form a generally square frame. The barrel is mounted to this frame by four sets of flexures each of which extends perpendicularly from a respective portion of the barrel to respective one of the innermost flexures . Due the arrangement of the piezoelectric elements and the flexures and actuation of the x or y actuator or drives the barrel to move in the x or y direction within the x y plane with virtually no movement in the other direction within that plane or in the z direction.

The scanner shown in can be configured to translate the AFM probe or can equally well be configured to translate a relatively small sample not shown instead of the scanned objective. Specifically the scanner described herein can translate samples up to a weight similar to the scanned objective roughly 35 grams without significant decrease in performance. For smaller samples e.g. a few mm across the performance will be even better.

Turning now to the objective includes the barrel a lens support and a sleeve located radially between the lens support and the barrel . A gear is rotatably mounted on the outer surface of the upper end of the barrel . It is restrained from radial motion relative to the barrel by an o ring . The barrel sleeve and lens support will now be described in turn.

The barrel is a relatively rigid preferably metal structure affixed to the xy actuator as described above. It takes the form of a hollow cylinder that is open at its top end and is enclosed at its bottom end . It is also stepped at its bottom end. A central aperture covered by a transparent window is formed in the bottom end to permit light to pass between the objective and the probe . The aperture is also counter bored at its bottommost end to form a mounting location for the z actuator and the probe . A socket is formed in the outer wall near the bottom end of the barrel and a vent passage is located beneath the socket .

The sleeve comprises an annular metal ring located in a recess in the outer periphery of the lens support . The sleeve is retained in the recess by a ring at its upper end and by the bottom of the recess at its lower end. This mounting prohibits the sleeve from moving axially relative to the lens support but permits free rotational movement therebetween. An annular shoulder extends radially from the upper end of the sleeve and is affixed to the gear so that the gear and sleeve rotate as a unit. The outer periphery of the sleeve beneath the shoulder is threaded at and mates with an internally threaded portion of the inner surface of the barrel . The mating threads cause the sleeve to screw into and out of the barrel upon rotation of the gear and sleeve .

Still referring to the lens support comprises a cylindrical tube having a maximum OD that closely matches the minimum ID of the barrel so as to permit sliding movement of the lens support within the barrel with minimum play or side to side motion therebetween. The lower end of the lens support is stepped to match the step in the barrel . First and second O rings are mounted in the OD of the lens support at its bottom and central portions respectively so as to virtually eliminate play between the lens support and the barrel . The inner peripheral surface of the lens support is stepped at two locations and to provide mounting locations for the first and second lens assemblies and described above. A ball mounted in the socket engages a groove formed in the outer surface of the lens support so as to prevent rotational movement of the lens support relative to the barrel while permitting longitudinal vertical movement therebetween. A flag is mounted on the upper surface of the lens support for engagement with a limit switch or a similar mechanical electrical or optical sensor when the lens support reaches its uppermost or lowest limit of travel.

Still referring to a bottom chamber is formed between the bottom of the lens support and the inner surface of the bottom portion of the barrel and an annular chamber is formed between the lower portion of the outer periphery of the lens support and the inner periphery of the barrel at a location above the step in the barrel. Another annular chamber is formed between the ID of the gear and the OD of the sleeve above the upper end of the barrel . All three chambers and increase in size as the lens support moves upwardly within the barrel and decrease in size as the lens support moves downwardly within the barrel . Measures may be taken to vent air from the chambers and during downward movement of the lens support . In the current embodiment air from the bottom chamber can vent into the annular chamber by flowing past the O ring and air from both chambers and can be vented from the barrel by passing through the vent passage . Air from the upper chamber is vented by flowing between the gear the outer surface of the barrel and past the O ring .

In use when the gear is driven to rotate by the drive in the sleeve is driven to rotate relative to both the lens support and the barrel . This rotation causes the sleeve to screw into or out of the barrel driving the lens support to move upwardly or downwardly relative to the barrel . The ball prevents the lens support from rotating. Air trapped in the chambers and during downward movement of the lens support vents as described above. The range of motion that is available may vary with operator preference and system requirements. Ideally the range of motion should be long enough to focus on the cantilever and to also focus on the sample for inspection purposes when the probe is located well above the sample surface. This requires a focus depth of on the order of 1 mm. In the illustrated embodiment this focus depth is achieved by providing the lens support with a stroke of at least 1 mm preferably of 2 mm or more and most preferably about 3 mm with respect to the barrel .

The drive of may comprise any device assembly or system that can be used to drive the gear to rotate through a precisely controllable angular range of motion. It also may be one that does not in any way constrain the lens support from vertical motion or that interferes with the operation or reduces the range of operation of the x y actuator . A manually operated knob could be used for this purpose. A powered motor is preferred. One preferred drive comprises a stepper motor not shown mounted in the scan head . The stepper motor has an output gear coupled to the drive gear for the objective by an idler gear . The stepper motor gear train and thread pitch may be selected to achieve a precision of less than 1 m of lens support vertical motion per motor step. The idler gear and drive gear have more than ample backlash to permit the range of motion provided by operation of the x y actuator and accordingly impose no constraints on operation of the x y actuator .

In use the sensing light beam emitted by the source is collimated by the collimator shaped by the aperture and then deflected to the objective by the filter as seen in . The light is then focused onto the cantilever by the objective and is reflected back through the objective to the filter . However the outgoing sensing light beam is traveling along a subtly different path than the incoming light beam due to the effect of its deflection from the inclined cantilever therefore the outgoing beam impinges on the first prism surface after being deflected by the filter rather than being directed back toward the aperture . It is then deflected to the detector by the second prism surface and the mirror . The resultant data or information derived from it may be viewed stored and or transmitted to a different location.

At the same time the illumination beam from the camera enters through the front window is deflected off the upper mirror and travels to the objective which focuses the illumination beam onto an object typically either the cantilever or the underlying sample surface. The reflected light illumination beam thereafter returns through the objective and is deflected again by the mirror so that it is directed back to the camera . The optical image or information derived from it may be viewed stored and or transmitted to a different location.

The illumination beam mirror as well as the optics including the filter and the prism may be movable as a unit in order to pan the instrument in the x y plane. Because it adjusts both the sensing light beam optics and the illumination beam optics this adjustment permits the sensing light beam focal point to be centered or targeted on the cantilever and to be at the center of the optical microscope s field of view. The ability to both target and focus the sensing light beam permits the use of a smaller cantilever potentially further increasing scan rates.

In a preferred embodiment this targeting is made possible by mounting the optics and mirror on a tip tilt stage as seen generally in . The tip tilt stage may for instance include a gimbal in the center of a plate . The gimbal is formed from an annular generally spherical surface that bears against a mating socket formed in a support beam in the scan head as seen in .

Referring to knobs and are mounted on the upper ends of posts and threaded into the beam . Rotation of either of the knobs or screws the associated post or into or out of the beam resulting in pivoting of the plate rotation of gimbal and tilting of the tip tilt stage . The posts and are positioned such that vertical motion of the first post rotates the gimbal in the y z plane for y panning and vertical motion. The second post rotates the gimbal in the x z plane for x panning.

As mentioned above this panning permits the sensing light beam to be precisely centered on the cantilever possibly under visual inspection with the aid of cross hairs or the like on a lens or monitor. When combined with the focusing effect of movable objective a sensing light beam spot having a minor diameter of less than 20 m can be centered on the cantilever . That sensing light beam spot minor diameter is preferably less than 10 m and most preferably less than 5 m. Spot diameters are defined to be the width at which the amplitude of light drops to 1 eof the amplitude at the center of the spot. Provision of this small sensing light beam spot permits the use of a correspondingly small correspondingly high resonant frequency cantilever. Cantilevers having a width of 10 m or less and a length of 35 m or less have a resonance frequency more than 500 KHz. This high bandwidth cantilever in conjunction with the use of the high bandwidth x y actuator assembly permits faster scans than would be possible with larger cantilevers and high mass scanners. In fact the fundamental resonant frequency of the scanner is greater than 2 kHz preferably greater than 5 kHz and even more preferably greater than 9 kHz.

Referring now to an AFM having capabilities described above is illustrated in greater detail and includes an instrumentation package controlled by a controller . The instrumentation package is mounted on a rigid frame including a massive base . It includes a course x y positioner mounted on the base and an optional xyz sample scanner mounted on the coarse x y positioner and supporting a sample support . In addition a course z stage actuator is mounted on the frame so as to be positioned over the sample support . A scan head which may for example be constructed as described in Section 3 above is mounted on the course z stage actuator and supports a probe . The coarse x y positioner has a relatively large range of movement so as to permit surveying of a large sample for example 300 mm or more in diameter to locate a region of interest. A coarse z stage can alternately be mounted on base or coarse XY positioner such that it translates the sample instead of the scan head. 

The coarse positioner for example may have about 100 mm of travel with about a 1 m positioning accuracy. It may for example comprise a servo motor or a stepper motor.

In addition to providing sample surveying optional xyz scanner expands the scan volume available for measurement by the AFM . For example xyz scanner may include an xy actuator and a z actuator . The xy actuator can also be used to offset the center of the scan area from a nominal central location as denoted by an offset signal in or can be used to image larger regions than the scan range of the xy actuator in the scan head . It may for example have a scan range in the x y plane of 100 to 200 microns and a z travel range of 5 25 microns. Scanner may also be controlled under the feed forward feedback control scheme described in Section 7 below to perform a slow scan. Because it scans the sample rather than the probe the scanner can be thought of as a sample scanner. Suitable sample scanners are commercially available for example from NPoint and Physike Instruments. Such sample scanners often employ position sensors to measure the motion of the scanner. Position sensors such as capacitive sensors and linear variable differential transformers LVDTs are most commonly used.

Still referring to the probe of this embodiment includes a cantilever and a tip mounted on the free end portion of the cantilever . Probe may be a micro fabricated cantilever with an integrated tip. For optimal high speed performance the preferred dimensions of the probes are of the order of 35 m or less in length with resonant frequencies greater than 800 kHz. Cantilevers smaller than around 10 m and with resonant frequencies exceeding 5 MHz can also be used. Many other dimensions including larger and smaller cantilevers can be used successfully. Probe alternatively can be any of a wide field of probes that are used in scanning probe microscopy including but not limited to probes for magnetic force microscopy electric force microscopy surface potential microscopy chemical force microscopy probes with carbon nanotube or carbon nanofibers and probes for aperture based or apertureless near field scanning optical microscopy. One exemplary probe and its method of fabrication are discussed in greater detail in Section 5 below.

The preferred cantilever has a force detection bandwidth greater than 30 kHz and preferably greater than 100 kHz and even more preferably greater than 500 kHz It also applies a very low force to the sample when activated in TappingMode. This force should be less than 10 nN and preferably less than 5 nN. It also has a step response time of less than 100 sec preferably less than 50 Its and even more preferably on the order of 10 15 sec. As discussed in more detail in Section 5 below the step response time is the time required for the encountering of a distinct step such as a semi conductor trench or line edge of a particular height to be reflected in commensurate cantilever deflection. A preferred probe and its method of construction are discussed in Section 5 below.

Still referring to the probe may be operated in contact mode in which it is simply moved along the sample surface without oscillation or may be coupled to an oscillating actuator or drive that is used to drive probe to oscillate for instance at or near the cantilever s resonant frequency. The oscillation may be flexural or about the cantilever s longitudinal or major axis and or torsional or about the cantilever s lateral or minor axis. The oscillating drive may be coupled to an x y actuator described below and probe or may be formed integrally with the cantilever of probe as part of a self actuated cantilever probe. An electronic signal is applied from an AC signal source under control of the AFM controller to drive to oscillate probe preferably at a free oscillation amplitude A. The signal source may be contained within the controller as seen in .

Still referring to controller typically consists of at least one computer and associated electronics and software that perform the tasks of data acquisition and control of the AFM. In one embodiment it has feedback control loop update rate of at least a 500 kHz and has an input output delay of less than 5 sec. This embodiment further supports a closed loop bandwidth in concert with the other system components described blow. The controller may consist of a single integrated analog and or digital unit or may consist of a distributed array of electronics and software. The controller may comprise a typical desktop computer a laptop computer an industrial computer and or one or more embedded processors. It will most likely be located off board the frame .

A workstation may also be provided in the controller and or in a separate controller or system of connected or stand alone controllers. The workstation receives the collected data from the controller and manipulates the data obtained during scanning to perform operating such as point selection curve fitting and distance determining. The workstation can store the resulting information in memory use it for additional calculations display it visually and or audibly on a suitable monitor or by printing and or transmit it to another computer or device by wire or wirelessly. The memory may comprise any computer readable storage medium examples including but not limited to a hard disk network storage a flash drive or a CD ROM. In one embodiment the workstation is combined with the computer discussed below in conjunction with . Alternatively it may be located off board the controller .

In operation as the probe is oscillated and brought near or into contact with a sample on the sample support sample characteristics can be monitored by detecting changes in the oscillation of probe caused by the probe sample interation. In particular a beam from a sensing beam light source is directed by optics shown in in the scan head towards the backside of probe . The sensing light beam source is typically a laser most typically a visible or infrared laser diode. The sensing light beam can also be generated by other light sources for example a He Ne or other laser source a superluminescent diode SLD a LED an optical fiber or any other light source that can be focused to a small spot. The term laser in the rest of this specification should be understood to cover a wide variety of these and other alternative light sources.

Still referring to after impinging on the backside of the cantilever the sensing light beam is then reflected back to the optics and then directed towards a detector such as a four quadrant photodetector. The signals from the detector are then amplified by a pre amplifier . Preamplifier typically includes a trans impedance amplifier for each segment of the detector. Compensation of the trans impedance amplifiers is typically selected to allow a measurement bandwidth greater than the resonant frequency of the cantilever . Other devices or assemblies that provide a signal that is related to the amount of sensing light impinging on the detector may be used. The devices include for example switch capacitor preamplifiers. The preamplified signal is then processed by a preconditioner and transmitted to the controller which processes the signals to determine changes in the oscillation of probe . Preconditioner typically performs any or all of the following tasks 1 amplification 2 filtering 3 generation of vertical lateral and or sum cantilever deflection signals.

Controller of this exemplary embodiment uses the information provided by the detector to generate z control signals that ultimately are transmitted to the z actuator of the sample scanner the z actuator of the tip scanner or both. In the present embodiment the z control control signals can be transmitted to both z actuators and which permits the z actuator of sample scanner to be used in a nested configuration with the z actuator above. In the typical operation the position of the z actuator of the tip scanner is used as an error input to a feedback loop in the controller that controls the z actuator of the sample scanner . Specifically the feedback loop attempts to servo the z actuator back to a null position. Large offsets that might otherwise exceed the range of the z actuator are accommodated by the larger range of the z actuator . This allows the combination of high bandwidth response provided by z actuator and large z range provided by the z actuator . The resultant control signals for the actuators and can be thought of as a large z actuator control signal and a small z actuator control signal respectively.

Referring specifically to the analog signal from the preconditioner is forwarded to the controller where it is converted to a digital signal by an analog to digital A D converter . The A D converter may comprise a 50 MHz 16 bit converter. The resultant digital signal representative of probe position is then transmitted to a field programmable gate array FPGA . As is generally known in the art a FPGA is a semiconductor device containing programmable logic components and programmable interconnects. The programmable logic components can be programmed to duplicate the functionality of basic logic gates such as AND OR XOR NOT or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple math functions. In most FPGAs these programmable logic components or logic blocks in FPGA parlance also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memories. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allows the logic blocks of an FPGA to be interconnected as needed by the system designer somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. Other devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or complex programmable logic devices CPLDs could be used instead of or in addition to the FPGA. In the FPGA a digital lock in locks in the signals from the A D converter where the digital signal is mixed two references supplied by a digital synthesizer located in the FPGA. The first reference is an in phase component I produced by combining the cosine of the digital reference signal with the signal from the A D converter in a first digital mixer and then filters it in a first filter. The second component is a quadrature component Q produced by mixing the sine of the reference signal with the AFM out signal from the synthesizer and filtering the mixed signal in a second filter. The I and Q signals are then converted by the FPGA to amplitude and phases signals either or both of which may be used for force feedback control. The digital lock in has a processing time of about 0.5 microseconds. That output from the lock in is fed to a force control algorithm which generates the control signal s for the z actuators and or . The force control algorithm may comprise a nested feedback force control algorithm that generates force control signals as described above. It typically has a processing time of abut 0.5 microseconds. The resulting force control signals are converted back to analog form in a digital to analog D A converter assembly . Each connection in D A converter assembly may comprise a 50 MHz 16 bit converter. The resultant signals z and or z are then fed to the appropriate amplifier or .

As mentioned above the small z actuator and large z actuator control signals z and z are amplified in the amplifiers and before being transmitted to the small z actuator and the large z actuator . The amplifier for the z actuator can be thought of a fast response amplifier. It should have a bandwidth of greater than 10 kHz preferably greater than 30 kHz and even more preferably greater than 100 kHz.

In the present embodiment in which the AFM is operated in TappingMode non contact mode or similar oscillating tip mode the AC drive signal for the oscillating drive may also be generated in the FPGA using for example a direct digital synthesizer DDS algorithm. The resulting high frequency digital drive signal is converted to analog form in a D A converter and forwarded to the oscillator . The converter may for example be a 500 MHz 16 bit converter.

As mentioned above a major figure of merit for the force control loop is the force control range. This range determines the maximum height of a feature that can be scanned without applying excessive force to the tip and or sample. In most cases this range comprises the range of all the z actuators plus the maximum bend in the AFM cantilever or other tip support before unacceptable tip or sample damage occurs. The current inventors have developed an AFM system with a combined range of 28 um 3 m from the fast small z actuator and 25 um from the slower large z actuator .

The amplifier preferably has a slew rate in terms of voltage per unit time sufficient to enable the force control slew rate described above. The amplifier slew rate required to obtain a desired actuator slew rate is dependent on the type and operating range of actuator that is driven by the amplifier and the shape of the waveform. For a piezo stack actuator with an operating range 3 um a 100 V maximum applied voltage and a triangle drive waveform the amplifier should have a slew rate of at least 10 kV sec preferably of at least 17 kV sec. and even more preferably of at least 33 kV sec. Suitable amplifiers circuits can be built by those skilled in the art for example using PA 93 or PA 98 high voltage op amps from Burr Brown and or MP 38 high voltage amplifiers modules available from Burr Brown. In some cases it may be necessary to use multiple amplifier stages in series or parallel to achieve the desired slew rate and or current capacity. Another suitable amplifier design is described in co pending application Ser. No. 11 831 175 entitled and filed Jul. 31 2007. The subject matter of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The amplifier for the large z actuator can be thought of an offset amplifier. As mentioned above the large z actuator control signal may be used to attempt to null the position of the small z actuator . The amplifier may have a lower bandwidth than amplifier but for the widest range of applications it may also have a bandwidth similar to the fast response amplifier.

Other actuators such as piezoelectric tubes electrostrictive magnetostrictive electrostatic inductive and or voice coil drive mechanisms would have different desired slew rates based on the operating voltage ranges.

After being amplified the z control signals z and z are transmitted to the z actuators and and used to maintain a setpoint amplitude value A to ensure a generally constant force between the tip and the sample. Alternatively a setpoint phase or frequency may be used for the monitored interaction. One or more other properties such as adhesive properties magnetic properties electric forces or conductivity could be used as setpoints for the monitored interaction. Regardless of the setpoint employed the position of the of z actuator is used as an error input to a feedback loop in the controller that controls the z actuator of sample scanner as described above.

Returning briefly to controller also preferably generates a scan signal that controls a scanner to move the probe in the xy plane typically in a raster scan in which the probe is scanned along a number of lines in the x direction spaced closely to one another in the y direction. The scan signal as well as the x y control signal may be generated under both feed forward control and feedback control to obtain the setpoint scan reference signal seen at . Position data for this control is provided by position sensors seen generally at . Capacitance optical strain gauge or inductance sensors or any other sensor that produces an output indicative of actuator movement and or position could be used for this purpose. In one embodiment sensors are small strain gauge sensors discussed in Section 6 below.

The details of one embodiment for generating the scan signal are illustrated in . There it can seen that the analog signals from the sensors are forwarded to the controller where they are converted to digital signals by an A D converter assembly. Two converters are provided in the assembly one for each x y axis. It should be noted at this time that each of the two A D converters of the assembly as well as the A D converter for the force feedback signal may actually be an assembly formed from three converters or digital to analog converters DACs namely a scan DAC a zoom DAC and a triangle wave DAC. Such DAC assemblies are well known in the art.

The digital position data from the A D converter assembly is forwarded through the FPGA to a computer as seen in . The FPGA merely acts as an interface for the transmission of the position data. It does not process that data. Computer may comprise software and or hardware located within the controller or located in whole or in part off board the controller . In one embodiment it is a desktop PC located off board and connected to the controller . It may incorporate a digital signal processor DSP that executes a feed forward feedback control algorithm to perform the feed forward control and the feedback control of and generates the digital scan signal. One preferred algorithm is described in Section 7 below. The scan signal is then directed back through the FPGA again without being processed by the FPGA to a D A converter assembly . That assembly like the A D converter assembly comprises separate converters for the x and y axes. Each converter comprises a 500 kHz 16 bit converter. The signals output from the converter assembly form the scan signal of .

Referring again to the scan signal is amplified by one of two x y amplifier assemblies and . While each amplifier assembly is shown as a single amplifier for the sake of simplicity each amplifier assembly typically includes two or more amplifiers one for each actuator of each x y axis . Amplifier assembly is coupled to the x y actuator of the tip scanner and receives signals from D A converter assembly . It supplies an amplified xy device signal to the xy actuator . Amplifier is coupled to the scan stage or xy actuator of the sample scanner and receive drive signals from a course D A converter assembly located on the controller. It supplies an xy drive signal to xy actuator . In the present embodiment each amplifier of each assembly should have a bandwidth of greater than 210 Hz more preferably greater than 350 Hz and even more preferably greater than 700 Hz. These bandwidths will allow each amplifier of each assembly and to faithfully reproduce the first four Fourier components of a triangle wave scan pattern and will allow scanning in any orientation. A simplified version would allow a lower scan bandwidth for the slow scan axis. More or fewer Fourier components can be used depending on the precision desired for the scan pattern. For a piezo stack actuator with an operating range of 125 V and a triangle drive waveform the amplifiers and should have a slew rate of at least 7.5 kV sec preferably of at least 12.5 kV sec. and even more preferably of at least 25 kV sec. Other actuators such as piezoelectric tubes electrostrictive magnetostrictive electrostatic inductive and or voice coil drive mechanisms would have different desired slew rates based on the operating voltage ranges. The amplified signals xy and or xy are then transmitted to an xy actuator or . The driven xy actuator could be the actuator of the tip scanner and could be operated by the signals xy to scan the probe relative to the sample. Alternatively the xy actuator could be the xy actuator of the sample scanner and could be operated by the xy signals to scan the sample relative to the probe .

This modular x y scanner arrangement can be used in multiple ways depending on the needs of the user. For example if a user wishes to first survey a large area the system will enable a wide area scan with sample scanner . Once the user has zoomed to an area smaller than the scan range of tip scanner for example 15 um the system can automatically switch to rastering the tip scanner at the higher scan speeds enabled by it. Alternatively the user may manually choose which scanner to enable. Additionally the system can operate in Pan and scan mode where tip scanner scans at high image rates and sample scanner is used to offset i.e. pan to different regions of the sample. Sample scanner can also be used to manually or automatically piece together a mosaic of tiled images captured using the tip scanner .

Typical third party sample scanners often operate at speeds in the range of I line per second due to the greater masses involved and slower acting actuators. However the current inventors have applied adaptive feed forward to such scanners and have achieved scan rates in excess of 50 Hz.

As described above the AFM of the current invention can be operated in contact mode TappingMode non contact mode and or other oscillating tip modes. To obtain the highest imaging speeds it is desirable to have a cantilever that can respond at high bandwidths. For TappingMode the cantilever s response time is governed by several factors including the resonant frequency of the cantilever its quality factor Q when the tip is close to the sample surface the fraction of the setpoint amplitude to the free air amplitude and the frequency at which the cantilever is operated. In one embodiment of this invention the cantilever is made of silicon nitride with an integrated sharp silicon tip. Alternative cantilevers can be made from silicon silicon nitride silicon carbide metallic materials polymer materials any combination thereof or other materials that may be formed and patterned in a thin film.

In the preferred embodiments the cantilever has a resonant frequency from roughly 700 kHz to more than 5 MHz. Depending on the desired tip sample interaction force and cantilever resonant frequency the cantilevers are typically 5 50 m long by 3 20 m wide by 1 5 m thick. For example a cantilever with a length of 10 m and a width of 5 m and a thickness of 0.5 um and a 2 um tall tip will have a resonant frequency of roughly 6 MHz and a spring constant around 20 N m. A cantilever around 35 m long with a width of 15 m and a thickness of 0.8 m has a resonant frequency of roughly 800 kHz with a spring constant around 6 N m. In one embodiment the applicants have built trapezoidal cantilevers with a cantilever length of 35 m a base width of 40 m tapering to an end width of 7 m with a 0.6 m thickness and a 3 m tall tip. These probes were coated with 5 nm of Ti and 40 nm of gold Au to form a reflective coating. These probes have a resonant frequency of 750 kHz and a spring constant of around 8 N m.

The shape of the high bandwidth cantilever probes may be rectangular triangular trapezoidal or other arbitrary shape to achieve the desired resonant frequency and spring constant. The dimension and shape can be optimized for particular combinations of resonant frequency spring constant and quality factor Q for example by calculations including formulas available in the literature and or by computational fluid dynamics and or experimentation. The quality factor Q depends not only on the viscous damping of the lever but also a squeeze film effect as the tip and cantilever come close to the sample surface. This affect can be optimized by controlling the shape of the cantilever and the height of the tip. Larger tips reduce the squeeze film effect resulting in higher Q cantilevers. In some cases it is desirable to make shorter tips to reduce the Q and thus decrease the cantilever response time. Using short tips around 1 m tall the applicants have made high frequency cantilevers with Q values of less than 50 in air with the tip close to the sample surface.

Again the cantilevers are generally fabricated with a sharp tip. In that regard for most high resolution imaging applications a tip having an end radius of 

To have a short response time it is often desirable to have a moderate quality factor Q for example in the range of 10 200. A cantilever with a resonant frequency of 5 MHz and a Q of 100 for example will have a nominal bandwidth at resonance of 5 MHz 100 50 kHz. Higher bandwidths can be obtained with off resonance operation and or at lower tapping amplitude setpoints. For example a cantilever with a Q of 100 that is oscillated at an off resonance frequency that only provides an amplification of 10 acts like a cantilever with an effective Q of 10 and will have a response time 10 faster than on resonance. Hence a 5 MHz cantilever operated off resonance with an effective Q of 10 will have an approximate bandwidth of 500 kHz.

For the example above with 2 5 MHz and using Q 100 an A 50 nm and an A 25 nm the estimated slew rate is roughly 4 mm sec. The inventors have produced cantilevers with rise times as fast as 10 usec for a 30 nm step corresponding to a slew rate of roughly 3 mm sec.

Cantilevers having these characteristics can be fabricated in a precisely controlled manner using an electro chemical etch to define cantilever length. Control over cantilever length is greatly improved in comparison to prior known techniques that use highly doped silicon to produce the probes. Precise control is maintained over silicon tip mass and tip height. Short cantilevers can thus be more readily and reliably produced with high yield. In that regard yield is further facilitated by providing patterned holding tabs that minimize unintentional dislodging of the resultant thin levered prove devices from the substrate.

Turning now to using conventional thin film deposition and lithography techniques membrane thickness monitor windows are patterned on the wafer. In one embodiment starting with a substrate such as a silicon wafer a layer of oxide e.g. Si0 is deposited on the wafer both sides and then a layer of silicon nitride is deposited on the oxide. The oxide and nitride act as etch masks for the following process steps. Next a photoresist is spun onto the oxide and nitride layers and an appropriate mask not shown is used to pattern the monitor features on the wafer. More particularly an array of windows not shown are patterned onto the top surface of the substrate. Thereafter the silicon is etched anisotropically through array of windows so that membrane thickness monitor features in the shape of V grooves are formed as the etch terminates on the planes of the silicon crystal associated with the end points of the width w of the features. Again the V grooves have known depths directly related to the widths of the tip height features.

Next large windows corresponding to the one or more arrays are patterned on the backside of the wafer. The edges of these windows are shown schematically in . The large windows on the backside are correspondingly aligned to one or more of the membrane thickness monitor arrays using standard alignment features and standard front to backside alignment equipment for example a stepper using a frontside backside aligner from the Karl Suss Co. In particular the major axis of window is positioned substantially perpendicular to the major axes of front side windows . This alignment is accomplished so that window accommodates an etch through the wafer directly below membrane thickness monitor array as shown in .

More particularly in process the back side etch is monitored visually from the front side typically using illumination from the front or back sides. The etch is stopped when the V groove having a depth corresponding to a selected desired thickness d of monitor membrane which is directly related to tip height breaks through to the backside of the wafer as shown in FIG. B. Alternatively the timing at which deeper V grooves for instance V groove for desired V groove break through can be used to predict the appropriate time to stop the etch i.e. an etch rate can be determined based on visual monitoring of V groove break through and using that information to determine about when to terminate the etch.

At the same time monitor membrane s is being formed device membranes shown in of the probes of the array of probes being fabricated are etched with a thickness that is substantially the same as the thickness d of monitor membrane . Again it is this thickness d of device membrane that is used to control the AFM probe tip height.

This formation of the probe is described in further detail and illustrated schematically in . Referring initially to layers of silicon dioxide and silicon nitride remain on the wafer both front and back sides once the monitor membrane is formed to a desired thickness d. In producing membrane with the back side etch a structure also results. Structure forms the base of the probe described further below which also substantially defines the location of a fixed end of what ultimately will become the cantilever of each probe.

At this point a layer of silicon nitride is deposited on the silicon substrate front and back sides the nitride ultimately being processed to form the cantilever. The formation of nitride layer is important in that the thickness of the layer determines the thickness of the cantilever which as noted earlier is a factor in determining the performance characteristics of the probe including its fundamental resonant frequency. By controlling the thickness of the nitride deposition the cantilever can be made thinner to facilitate a more optimum probe resonant frequency thus allowing the probe and the AFM as a whole to have a higher bandwidth. Nitride thickness may be monitored using any thin film measurement tool including for example an ellipsometer or another similar tool such as optical tools that measure reflectivity. Alternatively fourier transform spectroscopy FTIR which employs infrared interferometry to measure the thickness of the film may be employed.

To deposit the nitride low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD may be used. LPCVD advantageously provides a nitride layer that is low stress thereby minimizing the adverse affects inherent to prior SPM probes fabricated for example with high stress silicon levers. High stress silicon levers most often require that the stress be compensated accommodate lever bending for instance thus adding further complexity to the design and ultimately limiting performance.

Substantially even thickness can be maintained in a range dependent on the length of the lever and the desired fundamental resonant frequency. With the present silicon nitride levers lever thicknesses less than two microns are desired thicknesses less than one micron are possible with a corresponding tolerance of about 6 or about 0.1 micron. This precise control over lever thickness further facilitates yield with the present embodiments being able to maintain uniform cantilever thickness within the stated tolerances across a wafer as well as between wafers.

Prior to the deposition of the silicon nitride layer a support film or layer e.g. silicon dioxide a metal a polymer can be deposited as an option. Support film a metal or a polymer for instance may be deposited prior to the nitride to give the membrane more structural integrity and or to provide an etch stop for the formation of the cantilever. By reinforcing the probe in this way the patterning of the tip which occurs in the next step shown in can be re run without compromising the integrity of the device membrane . This patterning and re patterning may be performed if it is determined that initial alignment will not yield cantilevers having the desired length. Ideal positioning of the patterned tip including the improved accuracy achieved over known techniques is described further below.

A tip feature is then patterned onto the front side of the substrate as illustrated in in this case using global alignment marks. Then as shown in an anisotropic etch is used on the front side to form the generally pyramid shaped tip. In this case the width of the base of the tip is substantially defined by the width of the pattern imaged onto the front side silicon nitride as well as the silicon oxide and nitride therebelow .

More specifically when performing the front side etch in this way the geometry of the resultant tip structure typically includes two pyramid shaped structures disposed one on top of the other tip to tip. Once the etch is complete the oxide nitride and nitride layers are removed thus causing the top pyramid shaped structure to be removed as well. This leaves a high aspect ratio tip having a height equal to about two thirds of the membrane thickness d results. This formation of the tip using an anisotropic etch to terminate the etch on particle facets of the substrate structure i.e. crystal structure facilitates producing tips with greater aspect ratios than known techniques that typically yield tips with rounded distal ends by patterning the surfaces of the tip with conventional lithography techniques.

When patterning the tip especially for the high speed AFM applications contemplated by the present invention the location of this patterning is important to establishing overall device geometry most notably cantilever length l. The location of the tip relative to the fixed end of the lever substantially defines the effective length of the lever except overhang discussed below and thus impacts the performance characteristics e.g. resonant frequency of the probe. In this regard the user first patterns the tip based on global mask alignment associated with producing an array of probes. Once written however the distance between the patterned tip feature and the fixed end of the cantilever may be less than ideal for achieving the goals of the preferred embodiments. Fortunately the fixed end of the lever is generally visible from the front side . The fixed end of the cantilever point on the backside is visible because the deposited silicon nitride film is substantially transparent unlike those methods for producing probes having silicon levers. Notably to further facilitate this viewing illumination front or backside is typically employed.

With point known the distance between the fixed end and the patterned tip can be relatively accurately measured from the front side. Advantageously cantilever length can then be substantially confirmed prior to etching the silicon to form the tip. In the event that the alignment between tip feature and fixed end is not acceptable the probe fabricator can strip tip feature from the front side and make appropriate position adjustments and re write the feature in an attempt to produce the desired separation between the tip and the fixed end of the lever. This process can be repeated several times if needed to achieve the desired location of the patterned tip. As noted above however multiple stripping and re writing steps can compromise the integrity of the device membrane and thus that of the silicon nitride lever. As a result and as also noted previously an oxide layer or a metal or another suitable film may be used to reinforce the lever to resist membrane rupture during processing.

In sum the tip masks can be positioned to pattern tips which can thereafter be measured in situ to determine their location relative to the fixed end of the corresponding levers. As a result the present techniques can be used to repeatedly and reliably produce sub 50 micron probe cantilevers . Ideally probes having cantilevers with lengths that are less than about 50 microns and even less than about 10 microns can be repeatedly produced across wafers. Moreover fundamental resonant frequencies greater than 700 KH or greater than 1 MHz or even greater than 5 MHz can be realized with the present probes with quality factors Q less than 100 in air when the tip is interacting with the sample.

Turning to the cantilever is then patterned and etched from the back side thus yielding for example the structure show schematically in . Referring more specifically to with the tip formed the size and shape of the lever is patterned on the back side. A free or distal end of what will become lever is patterned with appropriate masking and defines an overhang or tip offset ldefined as the distance between end and an axis through the apex of the tip and generally orthogonal to the lever. Tip offset similar to the other probe geometry discussed herein is important to the overall performance substantially characteristics of the probe and can significantly limit the speed at which the SPM can reliably image a sample if made too large. Using the present techniques tip offset l can be maintained within at least about 5 um of the free end of the fabricated lever. Notably the tip is pyramid shaped and the outside edge of the base of the pyramid may lie substantially in line with the outer edge of the free end of the lever. As understood in the art for optimum AFM operation only the tip of the probe interacts with the sample therefore by maintaining tip offset l. less than about 5 microns the chance that the free end of the probe interacts with the sample during AFM operation is significantly reduced over previous techniques which typically produce probes with much larger and less reliably controllable overhang.

Ideally the amount of overhang is controlled during probe fabrication. Notably tip offset be reliably controlled using a stepper with a frontside backside aligner the tool having at least 100 nm position accuracy. However such equipment is expensive. Therefore other conventional alignment techniques may be used. According to one alternative the resist used to pattern the lever may be a negative photoresist which produces a mask that is transparent when patterning the lever. In this way with tip visible the mask may be positioned so that the distal end can be accurately placed so that offset l can be carefully controlled.

An image of a cantilever produced according to the preferred embodiments is shown in in which a sub 30 micron cantilever length is produced with a tip height less than about 10 microns. illustrates the probe of from the side. Overall by using the present techniques cantilever size and shape can be precisely and repeatedly controlled to produce high yield levers suitable for high speed AFM operation. Moreover probes having sub 50 micron cantilever length can be maintained even among several wafers with a standard deviation of less than about 0.5 microns.

The above described technique is described in more detail in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 833 104 entitled and filed Aug. 2 2007. The subject matter of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A probe produced using the micro fabrication technique described above can have a force detection bandwidth greater than 30 kHz preferably greater than 100 kHz and even more preferably greater than 500 kHz. It also applies a very low force to the sample when activated in TappingMode. This force can be less than 10 nN and preferably less than 5 nN. The resulting probe has a step response time of less than 100 sec preferably less than 50 s and even more preferably on the order of 10 15 sec. A step response time of on the order of 10 s has been demonstrated with a micro fabricated cantilever of the type described above as noted by the steps and in the curve of . To generate the curve the cantilever was oscillated in TappingMode operational mode at a frequency of around 1 MHz. The point on curve indicates that the encountering of a step such as a semiconductor line or trench is translated into corresponding cantilever deflection within about 10 sec of encountering that step. In sharp contrast referring to the curve in a traditional cantilever operates in TappingMode at a frequency of 350 kHz does not reflect in corresponding cantilever deflection until more than 10 ms after the encounter. A small fast cantilever therefore exhibits an increase in response time of a factor of about 1000.

As discussed in Section 3 above the position sensors for the tip scanner may comprise small strain gauge sensors mounted on the x y actuator . In addition to providing very precise position information such sensors have the advantages of being relatively low cost having low mass and therefore having negligible impact on the lowest fundamental resonant frequency of the tip scanner and having small heat dissipation and therefore having negligible effect on scanner drift. It should be emphasized that the particular arrangement described is but one of many different contact and non contact sensors that could be used to monitor the position of the tip scanner in the x y plane. In addition similar sensors could be used to monitor the position of the tip scanner in the z direction and or the sample scanner in the x y and or z directions.

Returning now to and initially to the sensors may comprise first and second sets of strain gauges and configured to monitor the position of the moving portions of the xy actuator and hence the position of the tip scanner in the x and y directions respectively. The strain gauges and are mounted on a common generally rectangular frame extending around the objective . The first strain gauge set comprises four strain gauges arranged in two pairs with each pair located on opposite sides of the objective and being supported on the innermost flexures for the x actuators . The second strain gauge set similarly comprises four strain gauges and arranged in two pairs with each pair located on opposite sides of the objective and being supported on the innermost flexures for the y actuators . The strain gauges of each set and are wired together in a Wheatstone bridge configuration. The individual strain gauges may take any suitable form. They should have relatively high sensitivity through the desired range of actuator movement and relatively low noise. Semiconductor strain gauges are utilized in the present embodiment but metal film strain gauges or alternative devices that change resistance as a function of strain could be used as well.

The support frame preferably provides minimal resistance to actuator movement while constraining motion of the strain gauges to the intended direction. It also preferably maximizes the strain on the gauges in the intended direction to maximize sensitivity. The support frame of the present embodiment comprises a thin metal frame mounted on the flexures and the scanner stage . It could be formed of any of a variety of relatively rigid materials such as aluminum invar or titanium. The support frame of the present embodiment is formed from photo lithographically etched stainless steel having a thickness of about 0.020 . The support frame comprises four relatively massive corner mounting portions coupled to one another by two sets of mutually perpendicular strain gauge support arms and . The corner mounting portions are mounted on the scanner stage by screws adhesives or other suitable measures. The strain gauge support arms and may be mounted on the flexures by screws as described below or by adhesives or other measures. Regardless of the mounting technique chosen care should be taken not to prestrain the frame when mounting it on the flexures and the scanner stage .

All of the support arms and of the frame are of at least essentially identical instruction. One support arm of the first set will now be described with reference to it being understood that the description applies equally to the other support arm of the first set and both support arms of the second set . The support arm of this embodiment is configured to provide high symmetry so that the strain gauges and mounted on it are subjected to tension and compression respectively of generally equal magnitude. Support arm comprises a relatively long wide support segment connected to the associated mounting portions by first and second relative short narrow connecting portions .

The connecting portions and provide pivot points for connecting the support segment to the corner mounting portions . They in combination with the support segment are configured to minimize the areas that are under strain in order to minimize the amount of work required to deform the strain gauges and . Hence deformation is constrained to the areas containing the strain gauges and hence maximizing the range of actuator motion that may be monitored. To achieve this effect the connecting portions and would ideally be two geometric points of zero mass about which the central support segment pivots. They of course need to be wider than that to survive the pivoting process. The minimum width of each end portion and and the taper from that point to the central support segment and to the corner mount respectively may be determined e.g. by finite element analysis.

Still referring to the support segment has a longitudinal length L and a lateral width W. The strain gauges and each have a length L and extend in parallel with the longitudinal axis of the support segment . In order to maximize linearity the length L should be maximized within the constraints of the scale of the x y actuator to maximize linearity. L should be minimized to maximize strain on the strain gauge and and to maximize the signal per unit work. However since extremely small strain gauges tend to be relatively noisy there is a practical limit to the amount that L can be reduced while still achieving an acceptable signal to noise ratio. W may be empirically determined using a finite element analysis in conjunction with the determination of L and L to maintain linear deformation of the strain gauges and over the range of movement of the actuators . Stated another way it is optimized for a desired strain range. In the illustrated embodiment it is optimized for a strain of 600 700 microns meter. Using these design parameters the lengths L and L and width W are 0.84 0.06 and 0.20 respectively.

Still referring to the strain gauges and are mounted on relatively narrow strips on opposite sides of an ovoid opening in the central support segment . An annular mounting portion is located in the opening and is connected to the remainder of the support segment by a number of legs extending outwardly from the mounting portion . The mounting portion receives a screw not shown connecting the support segment to the underlying flexure . The legs of this embodiment extend at acute angles relative to the x and y directions so as not to be subject to kinking or buckling forces that would otherwise occur upon support segments deformation seen in exaggerated fashion in and hence to minimize resistance to actuator motion. Four legs are provided in the illustrated embodiment and extend at angles of 45 degrees relative to the x and y axes but more or fewer legs could be provided that extend at different angles.

With this arrangement movement of the x actuators compresses one of the strain gauges of each set and tensions the other strain gauge as seen in . The geometry and compliance of the frame provides relatively high sensitivity to actuator movement. In the illustrated embodiment movement of the actuator in the direction of arrow in compresses the strain gauge about 700 microns meter and tensions strain gauge about 650 microns meter. Referring to the strain gauges and are similarly compressed and tensioned respectively.

Referring now to a flexible cabling device such as Kapton circuit may be mounted on the frame to provide electrical connections between the various strain gauges to form the Wheatstone bridges and between the Wheatstone bridges and readout electronically components . The Kapton circuit of this embodiment is generally co extensive with the frame and has openings through which the strain gauges protrude. The ends of the strain gauges are electrically connected to the Kapton circuit by for example wire bonding or soldering. The readout circuitry typically including a strain gauge pre amplifier and may be wired to the Kapton circuit before or after its installation on the frame . The Kapton circuit is electronically connected to the controller by a cable .

We will now describe one implementation of a controller that operates at a high scan frequency and that minimizes the effects of creep thermal drift and the dynamics of xy scanner while rejecting position sensor noise. As shown in controller is configured to employ a reference waveform signal or dataset R for example a triangle wave representative of the desired scanning motion which during operation is compared to the measured motion of an actuator of a scanner using a comparison block . Controller in this embodiment employs a relatively slow feedback loop that compensates for position errors from low frequency sources like creep and drift as well as a feed forward loop that compensates for scanner dynamics and or nonlinearities.

When scanner performs zig zag raster scanning the turn around motion corresponds to a large increase in deceleration and acceleration force. Such force as described previously contains many high frequency excitations which can cause the scanner to resonate uncontrollably. When such resonant motion is superimposed on the linear motion of the scanner the image will be distorted showing ripples in the data adjacent to the turn around corner. Severe resonance can lead to a ripple effect throughout the entire image. To reduce the impact of a sharp corner at the turn around the reference waveform R may be low pass filtered to produce a rounded shape at the peaks. In one embodiment the reference waveform R is synthesized by summing together the first four Fourier terms of a triangle wave at the scan frequency f. The first four Fourier components including the fundamental fand three overtones at 3f 5f and 7fgive a good approximation of a linear triangle wave with the possible exception of a smoother transition at the peaks. It is possible to use more or fewer Fourier components depending on the desired tradeoff between linearity and impulse forces at the turnaround. In one embodiment a window technique for example but not limited to a Hanning window is used to adjust the Fourier components to reduce the amount of ripple caused by the finite number of Fourier components. The ripple amplitude can be reduced to 1 20of the ripple amplitude by applying such a window.

The division of labor between the feedback and feed forward loops is possible because thermal drift and piezo creep typically occur at substantially different times than scanner motion and scanner dynamics. Thermal drift and piezo creep have time constants on the scale of seconds to hours corresponding to frequencies of about 0.1 Hz to 10Hz. On the other hand typical conventional AFMs have scanner dynamics in the range of 10Hz range with fast AFMs having dynamics in the 10to 10Hz or higher. Typical AFM scan speeds range from roughly 0.1 Hz to 10 Hz for conventional AFMs and up to 10 Hz to 10Hz for higher speed AFMs. Thus the low bandwidth feedback loop is generally selected arranged to have a bandwidth of less than the scan frequency but higher than the frequency associated with drift and creep. As an example for an SPM system scanning at 30 Hz a feedback bandwidth of 1 Hz is well above that required to compensate for drift and creep but still well below the scan frequency. In the current embodiment the low bandwidth of the feedback loop substantially attenuates the effect of the sensor noise to scanner actuator motion.

To illustrate this effect with an example consider a scanner operating at a scan frequency fof 10 Hz and subjected to a random sensor noise. To faithfully reproduce a triangle wave reference waveform the closed loop bandwidth is at least several times the frequency of the reference waveform. If as described above it is desirable to have at least the first four Fourier components of the triangle wave well reproduced then the prior art feedback loop would need to have a scan bandwidth of 7f or roughly 70 Hz. If however the feedback loop is only required to compensate for creep and or drift a bandwidth of 0.1 Hz may be chosen for example. In a simple case the sensor noise is a white noise. So cutting the feedback bandwidth from 70 Hz to 0.1 Hz may result in attenuating the impact of sensor noise on actuator position by a factor of

Note that the bandwidth of 7fused in this example to estimate the noise attenuation figure is not required for the present invention. Instead it is simply used as a convenient benchmark to estimate the reduction in the impact of the sensor noise on the actuator position. A scan bandwidth can be selected to be larger or smaller than 7fdepending on the accuracy desired for the scan waveform. Higher scan bandwidths increase the number of Fourier components used to construct the scan waveform.

Noise in actuator position may be measured in any of several ways. It is possible for example to measure the voltage noise of the control signal u that drives the actuator and multiply this by the actuator sensitivity. The total noise in a specified noise bandwidth can be used to characterize the noise performance of the system. Note that we distinguish the term scan bandwidth from noise bandwidth. Noise bandwidth defines the bandwidth over which a noise measurement is performed. By specifying a noise bandwidth for noise evaluation purposes we are not implying that the system s scan bandwidth be the same. Also note that the generally triangular waveform would be removed from the data prior to a noise analysis.

Alternatively one can measure the noise in the location of a topographic feature for example the position of a step edge on a graphite surface as observed in a SPM image. A traditional closed loop AFM image may show noise of one to several nm on such a step edge while the current invention can achieve noise of less than 1 on par with the operation of a quality open loop scanner.

Returning to the feedback system loop employs a closed loop feedback controller a PI control block for instance implemented digitally or with analog circuitry and a sensor which yields a signal representative of detected motion of a scan actuator in response to the input signal u. Note the large noise component associated with the detected motion . It is this noise that introduces noise in the actuator position. However when using the controller of this embodiment the actuator position as represented by signal follows the trajectory of desired scanning motion as represented by reference R. Overall contrary to known AFM controllers noise associated with actuator position signal compared to the noise associated with the detected motion signal is dramatically reduced as shown schematically exploded in .

In one embodiment closed loop feedback controller contains only integral gain for high rejection of sensor noise and low steady state error. In this embodiment the value of the integral gain is set to provide a control bandwidth sufficiently low to allow substantial rejection of sensor noise yet sufficiently high bandwidth to compensate for low frequency creep and or drift. In this embodiment the integral gain is set such that the feedback bandwidth is generally lower than the scan frequency. Alternatively controller may be a PI or PID controller for example. It may also be a more complex model based controller that uses prior knowledge about the system properties nonlinearities and or hysteretic behavior in addition to feedback.

Based on the position error determined by comparison block feedback controller generates an appropriate control signal u. Comparison block may comprise analog circuitry and or digital computation element s that create a signal and or data representative of the error between the reference waveform and the measured actuator trajectory. Note that the contribution to u from feed forward branch i.e. u will be discussed below. Controller and specifically u operates to compensate the low frequency position error between reference signal R defining desired scanner motion and actual scan actuator scanner motion as represented by the output signal of sensor . As a result adverse effects on relative probe sample positioning due to creep and or thermal drift are minimized. Moreover by operating at low bandwidth the adverse positioning effects of the sensor noise high frequency noise on the control signal u and thus on actuator motion are minimized as described above. In one embodiment the actuators for the x y and z axes are piezoelectric stacks coupled to flexures with different amounts of stiffness as described in copending application Ser. No. 11 687 304 filed Mar. 16 2007 entitled Fast Scanning SPM Scanner and Method of Operating Same. However the actuators can also employ any number of alternative actuation technologies including but not limited to piezoelectric tubes or other piezoelectric devices actuators formed from electrostrictive magnetorstrictive electrostatic inductive and or voice coil drive mechanisms and other actuators that generate motion in response to an input signal. Actuator may by itself make up a scanner for example in the case of a piezoelectric tube. Actuator may also be a component of scanner that contains other components for example the flexure based scanner showed in . In practice the dynamics of both the actuator and the other scanner components can otherwise limit the maximum scan frequency. The current invention can be used to generate improved performance of both individual actuators and more complex scanner assemblies.

Position sensor most often produces a signal that is indicative of the position of actuator . Suitable position sensors may also produce a signal that is indicative of actuator velocity which may then be integrated e.g. by a processor to determine the relative actuator position. Position sensors may be arranged to measure the motion of the actuator directly or the position of a separate reference point or surface that is moved by the actuator. Position sensor may further include a preamplifier and or signal conditioning that amplify linearize and or demodulate the raw signal from the sensor into one that can be better used by the controller.

We now turn to the operation of the feed forward algorithm. Referring again to feed forward branch of controller utilizes a feed forward control algorithm to facilitate high speed scanning with minimized scanner resonance distortion. In general a feed forward algorithm is an algorithm that uses prior knowledge of the properties of a system to estimate a control signal required to generate desired output. Feed forward control algorithm is described in further detail below but primarily uses knowledge of the actuator or scanner unit dynamics i.e. non linearities etc. to generate a feed forward component u of the scanner control signal u that drives actuator along a desired trajectory.

In one embodiment actuator is exercised with a first estimate of a waveform uthat will drive the actuator to approximate the reference waveform. This estimate can come from a prior measurement or an initial calibration step for example. Controller updates the drive waveform uto minimize high frequency errors in scan position output of comparison block by generating an updated scan control waveform u. In one embodiment the waveform ucontains elements that suppress oscillation of parasitic resonances of the scanner and or correct for non linearities in the actuator. Known versions of feed forward control algorithms have been described generally in Stemmer Schitter Ando Salapaka Devasia and Zou for example G. Schitter et al. A new control strategy for high speed atomic force microscopy Nanotechnology 15 2004 108 114 Q. Zou et al. Control Issues in High speed AFM for Biological Applications Collagen Imaging Example Asian J Control 2004 Jun. 6 2 164 178 and S. Devasia et al. Nonlinear Inversion Based Output Tracking IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control Vol. 41 No. 7 pp. 930 942 1996 each of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

More particularly in this case the feed forward branch of controller operates to reduce for example are periodic errors including high frequency position errors by accounting for the dynamics e.g. non linearities of actuator and or overall scanner during AFM scanning. In one embodiment feed forward algorithm is an adaptive algorithm sometimes referred to hereinafter as an inversion based iterative control IIC algorithm that operates using sensor error to determine an appropriate control signal ufor correcting position error. The IIC algorithm inverts the transfer function of the scanner or actuator. Based on the sensor error and previous control signals IIC calculates a new control signal uthat is likely to reduce the measured position errors over the scan. One such IIC algorithm is described by Zou et al. in Precision tracking of driving wave forms for inertial reaction devices Review of Scientific Instruments 76 023701 pp. 203701 1 203701 9 2005 . In one embodiment the scan control signal uis computed as a scan table or an array of control values as a function of scan position and or time. The scan table associated with the scan actuator is updated repeatedly to generate an appropriate uto minimize the position error as quickly as possible.

As should be apparent from the above the AFM as described above can perform very rapid scans while still obtaining high quality images. In fact when scanning with the tip scanner described above sample features on the order of 0.5 Angstrom can be resolved at high quality while scanning along lines of 4 5 or 10 m or even longer at rates exceeding 30 Hz preferably exceeding 50 Hz and even more preferably exceeding 100 Hz. The system s force feedback controller including the z actuator the controller and the detector permits these scan rates to be achieved at a force control bandwidth i.e. a bandwidth of the force control feedback used to control the z actuator of at least 5 kHz and even of 7 kHz to 10 kHz or more in TappingMode operation and 30 kHz or more in contact mode operation.

Examples of data storage samples include a hard disk head a media surface a rowbar a slider and a head wafer.

The quality of the information obtained under these conditions can be verified using several different criteria.

The process as discussed herein as well as other processes falling within the scope of the present invention could be used to scan a wide variety of samples including but not limited to a patterned wafer such as a semiconductor wafer a thin film a polymer a biological sample or a data storage component.

Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following claims.

