---

title: Aircraft electrical servicing adapter
abstract: A system for enabling the use of one electrical servicing cable having a 115V/400 Hz AC cablehead, to supply aircrafts having either a three-phase 115V/400 Hz AC electrical power system, or a 270 VDC/28 VDC electrical power system, for aircraft pre-flight and maintenance operations. The system includes a controller for determining and controlling the supply of appropriate power to an aircraft. The system includes an aircraft electrical servicing adapter that facilitates the safe supply of power to a 270 VDC aircraft via the 115V/400 Hz AC cablehead.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07547997&OS=07547997&RS=07547997
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07547997
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070928
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an apparatus for enabling the use of one electrical servicing cable for supplying aircrafts having a three phase 115V 400 Hz AC power system or aircrafts having a 270 VDC electrical power system to enable proper pre flight and maintenance operations.

Aircrafts require pre flight and maintenance electrical servicing. When an aircraft is parked on the ground or on an aircraft carrier or the like power is typically supplied via an electrical cable assembly. The cable assembly typically includes a power source attached at one cable end and the other end is free to be attached to a power receptacle on the body of the aircraft. Different aircrafts employ different types of electrical power systems and therefore there is a compatibility requirement for the electrical cable assemblies and the aircraft power receptacles.

Traditionally most of the aircrafts deployed on US Navy ships have a 115 VAC 400 Hz AC electrical power system. In order to perform maintenance and pre flight operations aircrafts are outfitted with an external power receptacle typically a six pole NATO standard per MS90362. The existing Aircraft Electrical Servicing System AESS aboard US Navy ships provide electrical power to embarked aircraft by way of a portable servicing cable assembly with a plug that fits the MS90362 receptacle. Next generation aircrafts like the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF have a 270 VDC electrical power system and have a 270 VDC external power receptacle. As a result any ship or airport that will receive the JSF will need to provide 270 VDC electrical power for maintenance and pre flight operations.

The introduction of JSFs in addition to the traditional aircraft will have a significant cost infrastructure size and weight impacts to the carrier ships if a plurality of power systems are to be provided on each carrier ship. Thus it is desired to provide a single power system that is compatible with both the 115 VAC 400 Hz AC and the 270V DC systems. It is also desired to have a power supply system that is relatively inexpensive and that does not require a significant change in infrastructure.

In one aspect the invention is an aircraft electrical servicing adapter for use with a power supply system and an aircraft. According to the invention the power supply system includes a controller a 28 VDC power source a 270 VDC power source and a 115V 400 Hz AC power source a 115V 400 Hz cablehead plug and a first power recognition circuit segment. The aircraft is equipped to receive power from a 270 VDC power source and a 28 VDC power source the aircraft having a 270 VDC receptacle. In this aspect the aircraft electrical servicing adapter comprises an adapter body a power end attached to the adapter body an aircraft end attached to the adapter body and a second power recognition circuit segment having a diode. In this aspect the second power recognition circuit segment is provided for completing a single power recognition circuit with the first power recognition circuit segment. The aircraft electrical servicing adapter further includes a socket arrangement having six socket openings located in the aircraft end of the adaptor for receiving 270 VDC receptacle pins of an aircraft. The adapter also has a receptacle arrangement having six pins the receptacle arrangement located on the power end of the adaptor for mating with the 115V 400 Hz AC cablehead plug of the power supply arrangement. In this aspect the receptacle arrangement comprises a two part pin having a first contact portion and a second contact portion with the first and second contact portions forming at least a portion of the first power recognition circuit segment with the diode connected across the contacts. In this aspect when the receptacle arrangement is inserted into the 115V 400 Hz AC cablehead plug the single power recognition circuit is completed and communicates to the controller that the adapter is attached to the cablehead. This results in the controller supplying power from the 28 VDC power source and the 270 VDC power source to the cablehead.

In another aspect the invention is a system for supplying power to different types of aircraft. In this aspect the system includes one or more aircrafts. Each of the one or more aircrafts is equipped to receive power from a 115V 400 Hz AC power source a 270 VDC power source and a 28 VDC power source. In this aspect the invention includes a power supply system the power supply system comprising a controller a 28 VDC power source a 270 VDC power source and a 115V 400 Hz AC power source. The power supply system also includes a 115V 400 Hz AC cablehead plug and a first power recognition circuit segment for forming a single power recognition circuit with either a second power recognition circuit segment or a third power recognition segment. In this aspect the invention includes an aircraft electrical servicing adapter. The aircraft electrical servicing adapter comprises an adapter body a power end attached to the adapter body and an aircraft end attached to the adapter body. The aircraft electrical servicing adapter further includes a second power recognition circuit segment having a diode and a socket arrangement having six socket openings located in the aircraft end of the adaptor for receiving 270 VDC receptacle pins of an aircraft. Additionally the adapter further includes a receptacle arrangement having six pins with the receptacle arrangement located on the power end of the adaptor for mating with the 115V 400 Hz AC cablehead plug of the power supply arrangement.

The aircraft end of the adapter comprises a cable which may comprise an elastomeric material. As shown in the aircraft end includes a socket arrangement having six socket openings . The socket openings are arranged in two rows a first row having two socket openings and a second row having four socket openings . As shown the two socket openings of the first row are larger than the four socket openings of the second row. The socket arrangement represents a mating arrangement for physically mating with a 270 VDC receptacle of an aircraft.

As shown in the power end of the adapter comprises a six pin receptacle arrangement surrounded by a protective shield . The six pin arrangement includes a first row having three pins and a second row having three pins. The second row includes a two part F pin having two separate contacts or conducting portions. shows the structure of the two part F pin . The pin includes a lower portion comprising a conducting material. The pin also includes an upper portion comprising two separate regions a first region comprising insulating material shown at and a second region comprising conducting material shown at . As shown the region comprising the insulating material is sandwiched between the conducting material of the lower portion and the conducting material of the upper portion. Additionally the lower portion has a larger diameter than the upper portion . This structure allows the two part F pin to have two separate contact points when the cablehead is inserted thereon thereby forming and closing a power recognition circuit as outlined below.

In operation if an aircraft having a 270 VDC receptacle is to be connected to the power supply system the aircraft electrical servicing adapter must be an intermediary between the components. According to this embodiment with reference to A B C and D the adapter is connected at the adapter s power end to the cablehead of the power supply system . As shown in the power end includes a receptacle arrangement having six pins including the two part pin . See also . When the cablehead and the adapter make a proper electrical connection a power recognition circuit is completed. As shown in the power recognition circuit comprises a first power recognition circuit segment located within the power supply system and a second power recognition circuit segment in the adapter . The first power recognition circuit segment may include a power supply independent of supplies and . The second power recognition circuit segment illustrated in includes contacts Fand Fof the two part contact and a diode connected across the contacts. When the single power recognition is completed between the first and second segments the diode allows current to flow in only one direction. This unidirectional current flow communicates to the controller that the adapter is connected to the power supply system . In response to this information the controller closes the coils in the 28 VDC power source and the 270 VDC power source allowing the supply of power from the aforementioned sources to the adapter and preventing the supply of potentially damaging power from the 115 VAC 400 Hz AC power source .

As shown in the adapter includes a first relay and a second relay contactor as well as an electrical switch for switching ON and OFF the current flow through the second relay . When the power from sources and are supplied to the adapter the current from the 28 VDC supply is allowed to flow through the adapter via the first relay . As a safety measure the 270 VDC current is prevented from automatically flowing through the adapter . The 270 VDC current is only allowed through the adapter if the electrical switch is turned ON.

After the current from the 28 VDC supply is allowed to flow through the adapter the current flows through to the aircraft via the receptacle if the aircraft is electrically connected to the adapter . If the aircraft is electrically connected to the adapter the 28 VDC current flows through to the aircraft and back towards the adapter. shows the current flowing from pin I and jumping back to the adapter via pin . When this current flows back to the adapter it flows towards the ON OFF switch thereby energizing the switch and allowing a user to close the switch into the ON position . In the ON position current from the 270 VDC source is allowed to flow through the second relay through the adapter to the aircraft thereby fully powering the aircraft. This arrangement where the switch can only be turned ON if the 28 VDC current first flows to an electrically connected aircraft protects a user from the hazardous effects of a 270 VDC power surge when the adapter is not connected to an aircraft. In other words according to this arrangement the 270 VDC power is only supplied through the adapter if an aircraft is properly attached to the adapter. It should be noted that if there is some sort of system error and the 115 VAC 400 Hz supply is applied to the adapter the relays and would not allow the alternating current to flow through the adapter thereby preventing potential hazard to a user or to a connected 270 VDC aircraft. also shows a thermal switch within the second power recognition circuit segment which protects against overheating in the adapter.

It should be noted that an aircraft having a 115 VAC 400 Hz six pin receptacle as shown in may be connected directly to the power supply system via the complementarily mating cablehead and aircraft receptacle . In this arrangement as opposed to a two part F pin the aircraft receptacle includes a solid F pin similar to pin shown in . The solid F pin showed schematically in at least partially forms a third power recognition circuit segment. Together with the first power recognition circuit segment the third segment forms a single power recognition circuit. When the solid F pin is inserted into the socket arrangement of the cablehead the single power recognition circuit between the aircraft receptacle and the power supply system is completed. Because this arrangement does not include a diode the current flow in the completed recognition circuit is not limited to one direction. The resulting bidirectional current flow signals to the power supply system controller that a 400 Hz receptacle is attached to the cablehead and that the 115 VAC 400 Hz AC power source is required. In response to this information the controller closes the coils in the 115 VAC 400 Hz power source allowing only the supply of power from source to the aircraft and preventing the supply of potentially damaging power from the 28 VDC and 270 VDC power sources.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

