---

title: Design structure for implementing dynamic data path with interlocked keeper and restore devices
abstract: A keeper device design structure for dynamic logic used in integrated circuit designs includes a first keeper path statically coupled to a dynamic data path, the first keeper path configured to prevent false discharge of the dynamic data path during an evaluation thereof, and a second keeper path selectively coupled to the dynamic data path. The second keeper path is configured to maintain the dynamic data path at a nominal precharge level prior to an evaluation thereof, wherein the second keeper path is decoupled from the dynamic data path during the evaluation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07716619&OS=07716619&RS=07716619
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07716619
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070906
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 278 169 filed on Mar. 31 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 307 457.

The present invention relates generally to design structures for dynamic data paths and more particularly to a design structure for implementing dynamic data paths with interlocked keeper and restore devices.

Dynamic logic is one type of circuit design approach that is used to increase digital circuit speed as compared to static complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS logic for example. A CMOS gate is a fully complementary logic gate using both p type and n type devices configured to implement a desired logic function e.g. a simple inverter . Static CMOS logic gates require large fan in which in turn causes large gate input capacitances that slow down the logic circuit. Furthermore static logic gates use relatively slow p type metal oxide semiconductor PMOS devices to implement a pull up network which further increases the capacitance of the gate input and slows rise times.

In dynamic logic circuits a PMOS pull up network is replaced by a single clocked PMOS transistor. Each clock cycle is divided into two phases a precharge phase and an evaluate phase. During the precharge phase an output node is unconditionally precharged to a high logic state. Then during the evaluate phase the output node either remains high or is conditionally discharged to low depending on the current logic output level. The logic function is implemented by a network of n type pull down transistors which are controlled by their respective gate inputs in order to either maintain or discharge the voltage at the output node.

A transition period corresponds to the time between when the node is precharged and when the input signal is evaluated. During this time the node may not be driven by any component but is instead floating. As a result the node is susceptible to leakage paths through the pull down devices which could result in an erroneous evaluation of the input signal during the subsequent evaluation period. Thus one existing approach to preventing false evaluations is the use of a keeper circuit that utilizes a pull up transistor to maintain the precharge node at a desired logic level during the transition period. In this approach the pull up PMOS transistor of the keeper is coupled between the supply voltage source and the precharged node with the gate of the transistor being coupled to the inverted node voltage. When the precharge node is precharged high the inverter provides a logic low signal to render the keeper PMOS transistor conductive and thus maintain the precharge node high even after the precharge phase is complete.

Unfortunately the increased leakage current associated with scaled technologies has forced designers to increase the size of the keeper devices in dynamic circuits to maintain nodes at the precharge state. In addition the evaluation stacks must be made with longer device lengths or higher voltage thresholds to substantially reduce the leakage. Conversely if the keeper is too strong the pull down devices will have greater difficulty pulling down the output node during an evaluation phase. As such the resulting slower performance of dynamic circuit topologies as compared to static circuits would arguably no longer justify the implementation of the dynamic logic. Further self resetting techniques typically employed for dynamic data paths are becoming very difficult to control because of the larger device variations and poor control of the evaluation and precharge periods. Accordingly it would be desirable to be able to provide an improved dynamic data path that maintains acceptable levels of robustness.

The foregoing discussed drawbacks and deficiencies of the prior art are overcome or alleviated by a keeper design structure for dynamic logic including a first keeper path statically coupled to a dynamic data path the first keeper path configured to prevent false discharge of the dynamic data path during an evaluation thereof and a second keeper path selectively coupled to the dynamic data path. The second keeper path is configured to maintain the dynamic data path at a nominal precharge level prior to an evaluation thereof wherein the second keeper path is decoupled from the dynamic data path during the evaluation.

In another embodiment a memory design structure includes a dynamic evaluation circuit coupled to data outputs of each of a plurality of memory subarrays and a keeper device having a first keeper path statically coupled to a dynamic data path associated with the dynamic evaluation circuit the first keeper path configured to prevent false discharge of the dynamic data path during an evaluation thereof. The keeper device also has a second keeper path selectively coupled to the dynamic data path the second keeper path configured to maintain the dynamic data path at a nominal precharge level prior to an evaluation thereof. The second keeper path is decoupled from the dynamic data path during the evaluation.

Referring initially to there is shown a schematic diagram of a computer memory subarray having a dynamic data path configured with conventional restore and keeper circuitry. In the example illustrated the subarray includes a subarray control block a local wordline driver and an array of memory cells MC such as SRAM cells for example each coupled one of a plurality of wordlines WL  through WL n and a pair of true complement bitlines BLT  BLC  through BLT n BLC n. The memory subarray also includes a mimic path i.e. mimic wordline MWL dummy memory cells and mimic bit lines for generating sense amplifier SET timing signals and restore timing signals for the subarray controls through a variable delay block . The restore timing of the subarray is independent of the restore timing of the wordline addresses WLADD and subarray addresses SUBADD and is locally generated by the RESTORE signal after a sense amplifier is set. The sense amplifier latches data from a selected one of the memory cells MC of the subarray . This sensed data DSUB from the subarray is self resetting and drives a dynamic OR configuration.

More specifically the dynamic OR configuration includes a series of pull down NFET transistors N through Nn wherein each NFET corresponds to the sensed data of a different subarray only one subarray being shown in . As data from several subarrays are coupled to the dynamic OR configuration and thus the data path the series resistance and capacitance of the path is also schematically depicted in . In addition specific locations along the data path are also designated D NEAR D MID D FAR. further illustrates a second or more data path stage D NEAR etc. coupled to the inverted output of the first stage prior to the output signal DOUT.

In order to precharge and restore the data path to a logic high level a delay chain is used. The delay chain includes an even numbered configuration of inverter stages the output of which is coupled to a pull up PFET P. Thus when the data path is pulled low by one of the pull down NFETs during an evaluation phase the corresponding low output of the inverter stages will subsequently cause P to restore the data path back to a logic high voltage value once the signal propagates through the delay chain. The number of inverter stages is selected so as to provide sufficient delay for a pull down of the data path to be registered before being restored to V.

As stated previously the leakage current I associated with each of the NFET pull down paths could be sufficient to cause a false evaluation. Thus a keeper device is also provided to maintain the data path at a sufficiently high level during a transition period. In the conventional keeper configuration of an inverter having the input thereof coupled to the data path drives a single PFET P. However in order for the keeper device to properly function as intended at least two key requirements must be met. First the on current I of the PFET keeper transistor P with a weak PFET process corner must be greater than the sum of all the NFET Ipaths for a strong NFET process corner. Conversely the selected evaluate NFET must be able to overcome the Iof the keeper PFET P in a weak NFET strong PFET corner. The challenges of making this topology workable are further illustrated in the waveform diagrams of through .

The waveform diagrams of through depict a simulation in 65 nm SOI silicon on insulator technology of various node voltages of an eight input NFET dynamic OR scheme i.e. eight subarrays sharing the same data bus . In particular there are three cases illustrated a nominal fabrication operating condition case in a weak PFET strong NFET fabrication at elevated operating temperature and higher Vvoltage in and a best case fabrication at a more slightly elevated operating temperature and higher Vvoltage in . The curves depict the various node voltages shown in including DSUB the data from the subarray which drives the two stages of the data bus D MID and D NEAR. The curve for the voltage at the final output DOUT is also shown. Of particular interest in the simulation curves is the voltage at D MID which reflects the performance of the dynamic data path during an evaluate condition.

Referring first to the simulation therein illustrates the slope change of the voltage at node D MID as the evaluate device attempts to overcome the pull up action keeper device. As is shown there is only a slight kink in the degradation of the D MID node from logic high to logic low. Thus under nominal device processing results and operating conditions e.g. 85 C. 1.0 volts the performance of the dynamic data path with conventional keeper and precharge circuitry is for the most part acceptable. However as shown in the results are quite different under non ideal device characteristics and operating conditions. First it will be noted that as a result of the keeper PFET being relatively weak with respect to the leakage of the NFETs the voltage value maintained at D MID about 1.1 volts is slightly less than the nominal value of V 1.2 volts . This becomes more pronounced at the second stage of the data path as the precharge voltage at D NEAR is further decreased to about 0.9 volts. In addition due the elevated operating temperature of the device a more pronounced kink is seen in the discharging D MID node which result in a slightly slower performance than in the nominal case of .

In the keeper strength is now relatively high and so the precharge levels of D MID and D NEAR are better than in although still not quite at the nominal 1.2 volt value of V. However because the keeper device is strong in this instance the time taken for D MID to discharge is visibly longer. This reflects the difficulty of the dynamic NFETs in overcoming the pull of keeper device. It will thus be realized from through that the conventional keeper scheme is not robust at scaled technologies due to the effect that variations in device dimensions or operating conditions have on performance.

Therefore in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is a schematic diagram of a computer memory subarray having a dynamic data path configured with interlocked restore and keeper devices. Moreover the present keeper scheme employs a hybrid keeper topology that utilizes a first weak non gated keeper path and a second strong gated keeper path. The strong gated keeper is disabled prior to the arrival of data using a subarray interlock such that the evaluate pull down path no longer has to overcome a strong keeper device thereby achieving a performance gain. In addition the restore operation of the data path in the present embodiment is implemented from the restore signal of the local subarray. This eliminates self resetting timing variations across the data path and is particularly helpful in maintaining well controlled data pulse widths across several cascoded data path stages.

As more specifically shown in the memory array portion of the subarray is substantially the same as shown in . Thus similar elements are designated using the same reference numerals for purposes of clarity. As will first be noted the conventional inverter single PFET keeper device of is now replaced with a dual path keeper device . Although the keeper device is shown repeated at various locations along the dynamic data path e.g. at D NEAR D MID D FAR to provide improved precharge timing and levels across the wire only one instance thereof is described. A first keeper path includes inverter and weak PFET P. As this path is not gated i.e. not selectively enabled PFET P will still prevent a false evaluation during an evaluation stage. Because the strength of P is relatively weak with respect to the leakage of the evaluate NFETs it will not cause performance issues by strongly opposing a pull down of the output node during an evaluation stage.

Moreover the problem associated with weak keeper PFETs i.e. the inability to maintain the node at the proper precharge level following a restore operation and prior to an evaluate operation is overcome since a second strong keeper path is also enabled during this time. The second keeper path includes inverter and PFET P in series with gated PFET P. When enabled the resulting pull up strength of the combination of P and P is greater than the pull up strength of P and may be for example on the order of about 10 times as strong.

As further illustrated in the gated PFET P of the keeper device is triggered by the output of a static OR gate that receives the SET signals sent to the sense amplifiers in each of the subarrays utilizing the data path . Thus the strong keeper path is interlocked through and deselected with the SET signals provided to the respective sense amplifiers. Because the arrival of the SET signal precedes the arrival of data on a DSUB data line the pull down NFETs of the dynamic evaluate device are not opposed by the strong gated keeper path. In other words the dynamic evaluate device need only overcome the weak keeper PFET P. Again the weak keeper PFET P prevents an unselected data path from significantly discharging during the brief period that a SET signal disables the strong keeper path. In addition a cross coupled PFET pair may also be used to prevent discharge of unselected data path as shown in the dashed portion of which would utilize a complementary data path topology. Another advantage of the interlocking of the strong keeper path with the SET signal is that by preventing the disabling of the strong keeper device until the SET signal is generated the data path is prevented from being prematurely evaluated.

As also discussed above the conventional restore circuit of is replaced by pull up PFETs P that are interlocked with the RESTORE signals of the subarrays. In this manner any mistrack in data bus pulse widths with respect to subarray restore timings is eliminated. In the embodiment of the RESTORE signals of the subarrays are each fed into a static NOR gate the output of which is connected to the gate s of the restore PFET s P. As is the case with the dual path keeper device the restore device may also be repeated along various locations of the data path to improve precharge performance and timing.

Finally through are waveform timing diagrams illustrating the improved performance of the inventive dynamic data path of under various process and operating conditions. In the waveforms of the various nodes under nominal process and operating conditions demonstrate a performance improvement of about 16 with respect to the conventional keeper device. In other words the registration of the output signal on DOUT is quicker with the present keeper topology. It will also be noted that the decaying voltage on the data path node D MID is much smoother than for the conventional device of .

As illustrated in the performance improvement is even more significant about a 44 timing improvement over a conventional device having a weak keeper PFET. In addition where the NFETs of the present configuration are formed relatively strong with respect to the weak keeper path they do not have the same adverse impact on the precharged voltage level as in the case of due to the activated strong keeper path prior to SET activation. In the decay of the node voltage at D MID signal is shown for both the present embodiment of and the conventional device of old to illustrate the improvements in performance and signal integrity. Whereas D MID old exhibits a significant kink the waveform D MID demonstrates a smooth rapid decay.

Design process may include using a variety of inputs for example inputs from library elements which may house a set of commonly used elements circuits and devices including models layouts and symbolic representations for a given manufacturing technology e.g. different technology nodes 32 nm 45 nm 90 nm etc. design specifications characterization data verification data design rules and test data files which may include test patterns and other testing information . Design process may further include for example standard circuit design processes such as timing analysis verification design rule checking place and route operations etc. One of ordinary skill in the art of integrated circuit design can appreciate the extent of possible electronic design automation tools and applications used in design process without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention. The design structure of the invention is not limited to any specific design flow.

Ultimately design process preferably translates the inventive circuitry of this invention along with the rest of the integrated circuit design if applicable into a final design structure e.g. information stored in a GDS storage medium . Final design structure may comprise information such as for example test data files design content files manufacturing data layout parameters wires levels of metal vias shapes test data data for routing through the manufacturing line and any other data required by a semiconductor manufacturer to produce the keeper circuit provided by this invention. Final design structure may then precede to a stage where for example final design structure proceeds to tape out is released to manufacturing is sent to another design house or is sent back to the customer.

While the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment or embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

