---

title: Control channel negotiated intermittent wireless communication
abstract: A dual mode communication device utilizes a control channel to exploit diversity, history, and context in advance of establishing a broadband data exchange session on a broadband but shorter range wireless data channel, maximizing productive use of such a session. Appropriate diversity for the negotiated session further enhance data transfer, including path diversity, radio technology diversity (e.g., WiMax, Wi-Fi, ultra wideband, Bluetooth), antenna diversity (e.g., MIMO), modulation diversity (e.g., rate selection for 802.11, or symbol length selection to combat multi-path fading), and frequency diversity (e.g., 2.4 GHz versus 5 GHz). Historical information about channel characteristics optimize the selection of channel parameters with respect to the diversity choices. In addition, context information such as location and speed can be used to categorize the historical information that is collected to further optimize channel parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08184656&OS=08184656&RS=08184656
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08184656
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071002
---
A wireless local access network WLAN is a data transmission system to provide location independent network access between computing devices by using radio waves rather than a cable infrastructure. Often WLANs are implemented as the final link between existing wired network and a group of client computers giving these users wireless access to the full resources and services of the corporate network across a building or campus setting.

The rate at which wireless networks are being deployed is accelerating along with their size and ubiquity. Wireless networks using access points based on IEEE standard 802.11 commonly referred erroneously to as WiFi and base stations based on IEEE standard 802.16 WiMax technology standards comprise a majority of current wireless deployments. There are also personal access networks deployed under the Bluetooth standard as well as other peer to peer network arrangements. Mobile connectivity under these standards is largely a matter of moving about within an area of coverage i.e. a hot spot in order to communicate with these network access devices.

The 802.11 specification as a standard for WLANs was ratified by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE in 1997. Like all of the IEEE 802 standards 802.11 standards focus on the bottom two level of the International Organization for Standardization ISO model the physical layer and the data link layer. The data link layer provides functional and procedural means to transfer data between network entities and to detect and possibly correct errors that may occur in the physical layer. In the current context this data link layer is further subdivided into Media Access Control MAC sublayer that manages interaction of devices with a shared medium. Above the MAC sublayer is the media independent IEEE 802.2 Logical Link Control LLC sublayer that deals with addressing and multiplexing on multi access media.

While such wireless capabilities offer a degree of mobility over wired infrastructure coverage areas are still quite limited and disruptions in communication are frequent. Often wireless communication is made on frequencies that are limited to essentially line of sight subject to shadowing in coverage area due to topology and obstructions. Typically selecting an access network is solely based upon received signal strength which can roll off unexpectedly due to such unknown shadowing effects when moving to a new location and due to an unappreciated direction of travel away from the network device.

The 802.11 standards were implemented to provide reliable and secure wireless connectivity at high data rates. 802.11b and 802.11g standards use the 2.4 GHz band operating in the United States under Part 15 of the FCC Rules and Regulations in the unlicensed Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM bands. With the abundance of WLAN devices e.g. access points personal digital assistants PDSs laptop computers in geographic proximity interference is an increasing problem.

In addition because of this choice of frequency band 802.11b and 802.11g equipment could occasionally suffer interference from microwave ovens sulfur lamps wireless microphones television broadcasts or cordless telephones. Wireless personal area networks PANs such as Bluetooth devices while operating in the same 2.4 GHz band do not interfere with 802.11b and 802.11g in theory because they use a frequency hopping spread spectrum signaling method FHSS while 802.11b g uses a direct sequence spread spectrum signaling method DSSS . However it should be appreciated that FHSS means that such devices should only occasionally collide on the same frequencies rather than not interfering at all. Physical and MAC layer adaptation is critical for performance wireless networks to mitigate the effect of interference. Previously it has been difficult for the radio to detect what the exactly source of channel degradation and therefore may not take the right adaptation actions.

Even if a network access device is selected somehow that is most appropriate for a current location and route of travel and even if correct adaptations are made to increase the effective coverage area travelling at any rate at all tends to shrink the effective duration of the coverage to a vanishingly small amount of time. Many of these network access devices operate in an unlicensed frequency band and are thus regulated in the amount of power that can be broadcast. Consider the length of time that a person is within a hotspot walking down the sidewalk. Further consider even how the larger coverage area of some municipal WiMax footprint shrink when transiting by car or rail through the coverage area.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such embodiments. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one aspect a portable wireless device for performing a short duration digital data exchange with another wireless device includes both a first wireless communication channel for performing a data exchange session as well as a second wireless communication channel of longer range than the first wireless communication channel for control of the data exchange session. A wireless controller responds to sensing a control signal on the second wireless communication channel to negotiate parameters for a future data exchange session including a data request. The wireless controller further responds to being within range of the other wireless device by establishing the first wireless communication channel performing the data exchange of the data request.

In another aspect a methodology for short duration digital data exchange with another wireless device includes negotiating parameters via a wireless control channel for a future wideband data exchange session on a wireless data channel. Request is made for data to be exchanged during the data exchange session. Once within reception range suitable for wideband data exchange over the wireless data channel then the data exchange session is established and performed optimizing thereby the time available for the transfer without the loss of time otherwise required to establish session parameters and prepare the data.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

A dual mode communication device utilizes a control channel to exploit diversity history and context in advance of establishing a wideband data exchange session on a wideband but shorter range wireless data channel maximizing productive use of such a session. Appropriately selected diversity for the negotiated session further enhance data transfer including path diversity radio technology diversity e.g. WiMax Wi Fi ultra wideband Bluetooth antenna diversity e.g. MIMO modulation diversity e.g. rate selection for 802.11 or symbol length selection to combat multi path fading and frequency diversity e.g. 2.4 GHz versus 5 GHz . Historical information about channel characteristics optimize the selection of channel parameters with respect to the diversity choices. In addition context information such as location and speed can be used to categorize the historical information that is collected to further optimize channel parameters.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these embodiments.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

Furthermore the one or more embodiments may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed embodiments. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the disclosed embodiments.

Various embodiments will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional components modules etc. and or may not include all of the components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used. The various embodiments disclosed herein can be performed on electrical devices including devices that utilize touch screen display technologies and or mouse and keyboard type interfaces. Examples of such devices include computers desktop and mobile smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs and other electronic devices both wired and wireless.

Referring initially to a wireless device depicted as a dual mode user equipment UE as part of a communication system is moving along a route of travel depicted by arrow from a current position S.sub.0 that is within a large coverage area of long range LR narrowband NB wireless network device . At some later time the UE reaches a position SP that is within a smaller coverage area of a short range SR wideband WB wireless network device . At yet a later time the UE continues along an extended route of travel depicted by arrow to a further position SP that is outside of the smaller coverage area . Thus the UE has a predicted constrained period of time in which a wideband data exchange may be performed with the SR WB wireless network device .

The UE has two communication modules. First a LR NB module is depicted as making a wireless request at to the LR NB wireless device that is transferred to a host network that confirms the identity of the subscriber in a subscribers database of a storage volume . Although location information may be approximately inferred based on a historical learning of the coverage areas of various network devices the UE advantageously incorporates a UE location tracking data structure .

It should be appreciated that for clarity the two network devices are depicted as distinctly uncentered and in fact non overlapping from one another in coverage area although in some if not most applications it may be desirable to co locate such communication channels into a dual mode network device not shown . An arrangement as depicted wherein a data packet network e.g. Internet connects the network devices to the host network can have benefits by having the host network assist in the prediction and selection of path diversity. To that end the host network tracks the subscriber location and vector e.g. direction and speed in a subscriber location database . In order to estimate the location of a subscriber who does not have location sensing capability or to suggest a network located along a route of travel the host network further tracks the location of network devices in a network location database which can include mobile network nodes whose location changes within a mesh network rather than an infrastructure node.

The request to the host network can pertain to media content that can be readily accessed by the host network . However the rate of transfer even for the SR WB network device can be enhanced by pre fetching this content so that the network device is ready for a burst download as depicted at to the other communication module of the UE the SR WB module of this content without the necessity for delays in making the request and waiting for perhaps a sequence of servers to relay the data. An extreme wireless controller of the UE makes the request in accordance with prioritization of content consumed by an application also performed by the UE .

In addition the UE may learn from the host network or access historical data from past sessions with the SR WB network device in order to optimize diversity to increase the effective range of the network device depicted at . Examples of such diversity include configuration parameters associated with the physical PHY layer such as modulation adaptation or transmit power control adaptation. Another example of diversity includes configuration parameters associated with the medium access control MAC layer for example for access point AP selection adaptation fragmentation size adaptation data rate adaptation request to send clear to send RTS CTS threshold adaptation collision avoidance adaptation power management adaptation dynamic channel allocation or spectral reuse. Communication configuration parameters associated with the network and or transport protocol layers can include parameters for end to end protocol adaptation or congestion control adaptation. In addition communication configuration parameters can be associated with the application layer to influence an application for mobility awareness such as picking a network device optimized by location.

As previously mentioned the diversity selection can further select among a radio technology diversity e.g. WiMax Wi Fi ultra wideband Bluetooth antenna diversity e.g. multiple input multiple output MIMO modulation diversity e.g. rate selection for 802.11 or symbol length selection to combat multi path fading and frequency diversity e.g. 2.4 GHz versus 5 GHz . Historical information about channel characteristics optimize the selection of channel parameters with respect to the diversity choices. In addition context information such as location and speed can be used to categorize the historical information that is collected to further optimize channel parameters. In addition medium access control MAC features can be included that in the presence of multiple devices coordinate their access to the network to avoid undue performance degradation.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a communication device according to one aspect of the subject invention in which an extreme wireless component increases the useful portion of a data exchange session on a wireless data channel by previously coordinating the session on a longer range wireless control channel. The dual mode user equipment of as well as any other computing devices capable of establishing two wireless communication channels and performing diversity selection actions according to aspects of the invention may include components as illustrated in . Thus the communication device e.g. UE can include one or more network interface cards NIC which allows the communication device to communicate over a network such as for example the wireless networks . A network interface driver enables interaction between NIC and other components of the communication device such as for example an operating system and a content consuming application both resident in a memory of a computing platform of the communication device along with the extreme wireless component . Driver may be computer executable instructions encoded in a suitable computer readable medium which may include memory components on NIC or may include memory storing operating system instructions for device or other suitable memory depicted at .

NIC can provide functionality of a receiver and transmitter configured to receive and transmit wireless communications. In particular the NIC can contain a transmitter antenna diversity selector having antennas selected to work together or individually for an advantageous antenna gain in a particular frequency band depicted as an omni directional transmit antenna and a directional microwave horn transmit antenna . The NIC can contain a receiver antenna diversity selector having antennas selected to work together or individually for an advantageous antenna gain in a particular frequency band depicted as an omni directional receive antenna and a directional microwave horn receive antenna . Arrays of antennas may be sequenced for use intermittently for transmit and receive as well. In order to increase the diversity of frequency and or radio technology options antenna arrangements may be dedicated to a particular modality and optimized for this use not shown . Components included in the receiver and transmitter are controlled by a transceiver controller .

A radio technology diversity component interposed between the driver and the transceiver controller can include additional configuration resources selectable to utilize transmit and or receive functions external to the NIC such as accessing an external receiver. For example a data communication port not shown can provide access with a remote computer server service or the like such as processors integrated into a vehicle that have access to GPS data temperature precipitation data a dashboard mounted user interface etc. The port can include at least one of Universal Serial Bus USB and or IEEE 1394 serial communications capabilities. Other technologies that can also be employed are but are not limited to for example infrared communication utilizing an infrared data port Bluetooth Wi Fi Wi Max etc.

Controller can receive commands from driver . In some versions commands for controller may be generated within components of operating system application or applications within the extreme wireless component depicted as a scanner and a diversity selector and passed through driver to controller . Similarly status information concerning the operation of NIC can be collected within controller and passed to driver or passed through driver to operating system or applications . Accordingly control functions for any of the components within NIC can be implemented within controller or may be implemented within driver within components of operating system or within applications . Accordingly the aspects of the invention relating to control of components of NIC may be implemented by configuration of controller programming within driver or software components within operating system or applications . However the specific mechanism by which control functions are implemented can be made by any suitable implementation.

To send packets from the communication device the packets can be encoded using an Error Control Coding ECC component providing error control coding of any suitable type. For example the encoding may use a multi bit error correcting code. In the version illustrated ECC component can add a number of error control bits to each packet to be transmitted. The number of error control bits added to a packet may be configurable in response to commands from controller . Altering the number of bits per packet used for error control coding is a possible adaptation that may be made in NIC for poor channel conditions. For example more error control bits can be added in a noisy channel in which frequent errors occur. However increasing the number of bits used for error correction reduces the percentage of bits used for data transmission.

An encoding component may implement any suitable encoding according to a data transmission protocol used for wireless communication. Encoding implemented within encoding component may use a modulation scheme that is configurable based on input from controller . The modulation scheme used in encoding component may also be used to adapt to channel conditions. For example encoding component may support a range of encoding schemes with a variable number of bits per symbol. To adapt to noisy channels encoding component may be controlled to use an encoding scheme with a high number of bits per symbol. Conversely in a high quality channel encoding component may be controlled to use an encoding scheme with a low number of bits per symbol thereby increasing the data transmission rate.

The encoded data are then transmitted by a transmitter at a transmit power level controlled by a transmit Xmit power controller . Transmission may be made via one or more transmit antennae . The transmit power level may also be controlled by controller and may serve as a further mechanism to adapt to channel conditions. For example in a noisy channel a higher transmit power may be specified.

Corresponding processing may be performed on received packets. Packets received by the communication device at one or more receive antennae may be processed through a receiver and then supplied to a received signal strength indicator RSSI component . RSSI may be obtained from a field in a received packet or it may be directly measured from the received wireless signal and then output in any suitable format. RSSI component may output a signal strength or a signal to noise ratio SNR for any desired packets. In the version illustrated RSSI component outputs a signal strength indication based on the received signal strength. However the signal strength indication may be obtained in any suitable way. For example it can be a field in a packet e.g. an ACK packet that contains an SNR value from a corresponding packet measured at the receiver side e.g. a DATA packet .

The NIC may include one or more components that decodes a received signal to produce a set of digital values for processing. The received bits may be modified in a forward error correction FEC component implementing forward error decoding. In the version illustrated FEC component performs an operation that is the inverse of that performed by ECC component . FEC component analyzes the received bits including the error correction bits and determines the number of bits in error in each received packet. Using an error correction algorithm FEC component determines the correct values for each bit that is incorrect and removes the error correction bits. In the version illustrated FEC component is coupled to controller . Accordingly controller has access to information concerning the number of errors detected in each received packet. It should also be appreciated that other types of error correction coding and decoding may be utilized by the communication device .

The FEC component is coupled to a received data processing component which further processes the received packets. Received processing component may perform any number of received processing operations. For example received processing component may include a buffer in which a received packet is stored until it is transferred for further processing within operating system .

In the version illustrated network interface card may be implemented using technology as is known for constructing wireless network interface cards including implementation of known antennae technology. Likewise the error correcting coding implemented by ECC component and FEC component may be performed according to a known error correction algorithm. Likewise the encoding performed in encoding component may be performed in accordance with an 802.11 standard or in any other suitable way. The transmit power may be controlled by transmit power component also using conventional components. Also the received signal strength may be measured in RSSI component in a conventional way and receive processing component may be implemented using conventional components. Controller may also be implemented using conventional technology. For example all of the components within NIC may be implemented in a single integrated circuit chip or in multiple integrated circuit chips using technology currently known for constructing network interface cards.

It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that the controller performs cognitive radio functions in a noninterferring manner with a long range narrowband control channel application and a short range wideband data channel application . The scanner component detects and characterizes e.g. pattern matching bandwidth power of frequency spectra duration in order to detect network devices and interference emitters. This information can be advantageously tagged with time and location data for historical reference and or persistent interference adaptation. Location data can be obtained from a current location and direction of travel from a global positioning engine accessed on a databus of the computing platform . Short term extrapolation of position may be calculated from a movement detector when the global positioning engine is unable to synchronize to global position system GPS satellites. A direction finding component can assist in determining bearing and estimating distance to such a source of a signal. Adaptation can further be performed in establishing a data exchange session either with configuration parameters suggested by a remote source or through trial and error or stored preferences for a particular radio modality with an optimum configuration stored for future use to reduce session setup and optimization time.

This adaptation is furthered by the diversity selector advantageously receiving the results of the wideband scanner in a radio channel buffer not shown for analysis. For example an interference mitigation application can detect an interference signal of interest in the buffer and characterizes the signal. A pattern matching is performed with reference to stored network device or interference patterns. Recognized interference sources are then stored for persistent adaptation. Location information may be tagged to this entry such as provided by a Global Positioning System GPS module . It should be further appreciated that prediction or confirmation of a particular interference emitter may be with reference to absolute location information for the communication device calculated by bearing and estimated range from the local position etc. obtained from a direction finding component. The diversity selector can further optimize for control channel detection of a network device from which services are sought with such data stored in an access network database for future reference.

The extreme wireless component includes a database of road and or topological data that assists in predicting a route of travel. This prediction may be made by user input of a final destination current location and direction rate of travel as obtained from the global positioning engine and or movement detector and or a historical context derived from a rule based logic component or artificial intelligence component that reside on the databus . For example a common commuting route can be learned such that the communication device selects path diversity in anticipation of a particular sequence of road use.

Artificial intelligence AI component can facilitate automating performance of one or more features described herein such as predicting location and selecting adaptations by employing various AI based schemes for carrying out various aspects thereof. For example a process for determining or inferring a target location or for determining a location based service or data can be facilitated via an automatic classifier system and process.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x x x x xn to a class label class x . A classifier can also output a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class x . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed.

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs that splits in an optimal way the triggering input events from the non triggering events. Other classification approaches including Nayve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models maximum entropy models etc. can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification the subject invention can employ classifiers that are pre trained e.g. via a generic training data from multiple users as well as methods of reinforcement learning e.g. via observing user behavior observing trends receiving extrinsic information . Thus the subject invention can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria a present and or target location location based data and or services when if to communicate data location based services preferences for types of data to exchange etc.

The rules based logic component can also be employed to automate certain functions described or suggested herein. In accordance with this alternate aspect an implementation scheme e.g. rule can be applied to define thresholds initiate location detection facilitate communication of location based services preferences for types of data to exchange etc. By way of example it will be appreciated that the rule based implementation can automatically define criteria thresholds whereby an analyzer component or processor can employ the thresholds to determine a location based service and or set of data for adaptation e.g. diversity configuration . In response thereto the rule based implementation can affect determination of location based data and or services by employing a predefined and or programmed rule s based upon any desired criteria e.g. distance . For example a rule can be employed that determines a geographical area that surrounds a current location such as determining a coverage area.

The topology data in combination with generic coverage footprints for classes of network devices and diversity settings may be calculated by a coverage prediction module of the extreme wireless component . Thereby a predicted session duration on a data channel and time of establishment may be determined in advance for negotiation over the control channel based upon a location prediction datastructure . Prioritized request database may be accessed for pre fetches and negotiation. For example the content consuming application can be a media player that accesses stored media content in a storage medium . Negotiations can entail determining a preference list for media content e.g. news updates on an web feed email files audio files from a particular podcast etc. As another example the content consuming application can be a navigation aid that provides auditory and or visual driving cues based on the roadmap data. Time and location tagged data e.g. reduced driving speed due to congestion road repair weather data etc. can be stored for exchanging with an on coming driving so that both drivers have the benefit of time sensitive information as to upcoming road travel.

According to some aspects the communication device may comprise any type of computerized communication device. For example the communication device may comprise a mobile communication device such as a wireless and or cellular telephone. Alternatively the communication device may comprises a fixed communication device such as a Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF server a network device a server a computer workstation etc. It should be understood that communication device is not limited to such a described or illustrated devices but may further include a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a two way text pager a portable computer having a wired or wireless communication portal and any type of computer platform having a wired and or wireless communications portal. Further the communication device can be a remote slave or other similar device such as remote sensors remote servers diagnostic tools data relays and the like which does not have an end user thereof but which simply communicates data across a wireless or wired network. In alternate aspects the communication device may be a wired communication device such as a landline telephone personal computer set top box or the like. Additionally it should be noted that any combination of any number of communication devices of a single type or a plurality of the afore mentioned types may be utilized in the cellular communication system not shown . Therefore the present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wired or wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Additionally the communication device may include a user interface for purposes such as requesting interacting with and or playing the media content or performing driving navigation. This user interface includes an input device operable to generate or receive a user input into the communication device and an output device operable to generate and or present information for consumption by the user of the communication device . For example input device may include at least one device such as a keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input device may provide for user input of a request for content or for user input of a request for additional information. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Output device may generate a graphical user interface a sound a feeling such as a vibration etc. and such outputs may be associated for example with the presentation of media content .

The computer platform of the communication device is operable to execute applications to provide functionality to the device and which may further interact with input device and output device . The memory of the computer platform may include volatile and nonvolatile memory portions such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include active memory and storage memory including an electronic file system and any secondary and or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape soft and or hard disk and removable memory components. In the illustrative version memory is depicted as RAM memory with storage device representing nonvolatile local storage which can be removeable each connected to the data bus of the computer platform . Certain of the capabilities of the communication device can be facilitated by code loaded from local storage retained in memory and executed by the processor such as the operating system OS .

Further computer platform may also include a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. In some aspects such as when communication device comprises a cellular telephone processor or other logic such as an application specific integration circuit ASIC not shown may execute an application programming interface API layers not shown that interfaces with any resident software components such as voice call data call and media related applications in memory . Device APIs may be a runtime environment executing on the respective communication device .

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a communications system not shown . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices as well as within and or among components of communication device . In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processor may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM universal subscriber identity module subscriber identity module voice services graphics USB universal serial bus multimedia such as MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group protocol multimedia GPRS General Packet Radio Service short message service SMS short voice service SVS web browser etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform .

Computer platform may further include a communications module with functionality in addition to or as an alternative to the NIC that enables communications among the various components of communication device as well as being operable to exchange media content and content requests between the communication device and network devices . Such a communications module can be embodied in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof and may further include all protocols for use in intra device and inter device communications.

It should be appreciated that the communication device includes provisions for power supply. Power can be provided to the processor and other components forming the communication device by an onboard power system e.g. a battery pack or fuel cell . In the event that the power system fails or becomes disconnected from the device a supplemental power source can be employed to provide power to the processor and other components and to charge the onboard power system if a chargeable technology. For example the alternative power source can facilitate an interface to an external grid connection via a power converter. The processor of the device can induce a sleep mode to reduce the current draw upon detection of an anticipated power failure. For example the wireless control component can advantageously detect a situation in which no control channel is available or a negotiated data session is still some time away and turn of portions of the communication device in order to conserve stored power and or to reduce thermal loads.

In a methodology for optimizing a short duration wireless data channel by use of a longer range wireless control channel depicts messages between a long range LR narrowband NB control channel of a user equipment UE with a LR NB control channel of a network device that is in communication with a content host network which in turn is in communication with a network short range SR wideband WB data channel . Eventually a SR WB data channel of the UE comes within wireless range of the network SR WB data channel . At stage S1 the UE LR NB control channel detects the network LR NB control channel as depicted at . At stage S2 exchanges are made of meta data pertinent to the UE and or the network e.g. identification ID network address current location vector of speed and direction final destination etc. as depicted at . At stage S3 the UE LR NB control channel negotiates via the network LR NB control channel as depicted at to the content host network as depicted at which in turn involves the network SR WD data channel to the extent that the latter represents another network entity as depicted at . These negotiations can determine approximate session begin and end times data requests communication parameters and diversity capabilities of the UE SR WB data channel and the network LR WD data channel . In stage S4 pre fetches and compression for transmission are done in advance of the scheduled data exchange session to enhance the data transfer potential for the session. In particular remote content accessible by the content host network can be downloaded to local storage for the network SR WB data channel to obviate data transfer limitations upstream of the expected data exchange session as depicted at . At stage S5 the UE SR WB data channel comes within range of the network SR WB data channel and the data session is established as depicted at perhaps extended by adaptation measures coordinated in advance. In stage S6 maximum benefit of the available data rate is made by a burst data exchange between the UE SR WB data channel and the network SR WB data channel as depicted at .

In optimization of a data channel via a control channel have applications to an ad hoc communication situation depicted at in which one dual mode UE is moving in a direction indicated at past an another dual mode UE . It should be appreciated that this situation may arise in which one UE is stationary or one or both UEs have a relatively small closing rate due to being on foot or carried by respective vehicles in traffic lanes going in the same direction. In the depicted scenario a vehicle carrying the first UE is going in an opposite direction as a direction indicated at for a second vehicle carrying the second UE . Thereby a forward shaped control channel coverage beam of the first UE reaches the second vehicle and a forward shaped control channel coverage beam of the second UE reaches the first vehicle very shortly before the respective short range coverage beams of the UEs come within range as the vehicles pass each other. In the negotiated data session data can be exchanged such as traffic and weather information that would be pertinent to the other vehicle . This trip data for the UE in the first vehicle is depicted as including a current location A data structure a final destination A data structure and filtered time location tagged traffic related data . Similarly trip data for the second UE in the second vehicle is depicted as including a current location B data structure a final destination B data structure and filtered time location tagged traffic related data .

In a methodology depicts communication exchanges such as in the scenario of in which control channel communications are initially between a UE LR NB control channel and a UE LR NB control channel and then later between a UE SR WD data channel and a UE SR WD data channel . At a stage S1 the UE LRNB control channel discovers the UE LRNB control channel as depicted at . In stage S2 meta data is exchanged between the UE LR NB control channel and the UE LR NB control channel as depicted at . In the first example this meta data can pertain to speed direction location and final destination necessary to establish parameters of the data session as well as to facilitate filtering of traffic data usable by the other party. In a second example this meta data could pertain to media content lists of each party in order to determine what is to be requested from the other during the data session. In stage S3 one or both parties analyzes the meta data to see what desired services can be provided by the other as depicted at . In the first example this analysis may pertain to filtering the traffic data appropriate for the final destination of the other party. In the second example this analysis may pertain to computing or ascertaining the different in media content or selecting and prioritizing sources for desired content. In stage S4 the parameters of the SR WB data channel session are negotiated as depicted at . In stage S5 the UE SR WB data channel comes within range and establishes a data channel connection with the UE SR WB data channel as depicted at . In stage S6 a burst data exchange occurs as depicted at between the UE SR WB data channel and the UE SR WB data channel .

In a methodology for optimizing an effective communication range for either or both of a control channel and a data channel begins with predicting a route of travel in block . Remotely provided data over the control channel or locally accessible historical data is retrieved in order to predict a network access node for wireless wideband data session in block . If multiple path diversity is determined as available in block then an optimum diversity path is selected based on criteria such as available data rate estimation of time within range of each path currently sensed loading based on control channel monitoring or other means etc. as depicted at block . Once a path is planned then cognitively scan for one or more channel bands that can be requested for the impending data session in block . Further predict session parameters for optimum diversity by taking into account the coverage range of the network SR WB access point or other network device in block . Available historical data can empirically provide such indications as well as topographical and remotely provided data can assist in making this determination. In block a prioritization of data requests are made with awareness given to the expected duration of the upcoming data session. Based upon the negotiated session parameters antenna diversity is selected based upon route of travel and direction of network access in order to maximize reception in block . Then in block modulation and coding diversity are optimized for the data session such as increasing the error and noise tolerance for those portions of the data session expected to be at the edge of reception or within proximity to cognitively sensed interference emitters.

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the invention includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 11 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the subject invention can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices that require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject invention but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject invention are possible. Accordingly the subject invention is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

It should be appreciated that any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

