---

title: Heat treating apparatus and method of using same
abstract: An apparatus and method for heat treating the welded area of a repaired gas turbine engine component uses first and second heating elements. The heating elements each include an insulating tube supported by a support rod and wrapped with a conducing wire. One of the heating elements is sized to fit inside a recess in the gas turbine engine component, adjacent to the welded area, while the second heating element is placed outside the recess, but also adjacent to the welded area, thereby heating the welded area from two sides.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08141249&OS=08141249&RS=08141249
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08141249
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071011
---
The U.S. government may have certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. F33657 99 D 2051 0014 awarded by the United States Air Force.

A gas turbine engine typically includes an augmenter or afterburner which produces additional thrust from the engine. Thrust augmentation is particularly useful in military aircraft which often need brief periods of additional thrust during takeoff climbing or combat maneuvers. The augmenter typically is disposed in the exhaust section of the gas turbine engine. The gas flow of the augmenter is circumscribed by an augmenter liner and an augmenter case. The augmenter case is disposed outwardly in a radial direction from the augmenter liner with a cooling space between them.

Augmenter cases include a cam follower track. During normal use of the gas turbine engine the cam follower track of the augmenter case becomes worn. The high cost of augmenter cases makes it very desirable to repair the worn area of the cam follower track. Repairing the cam follower track of an augmenter case includes three basic steps building up the worn area of the cam follower track using a welding process heat treating the built up welded area of the cam follower track to relieve local stress and machining the welded area of the cam follower track to conform to the desired dimensions.

The cam follower track of an augmenter case has an elongated shape. This elongated shape makes it difficult to provide heat treatment in a uniform manner to the welded area during the second step of the repair process.

Therefore there is a need in the art for an apparatus to provide localized heat treatment of the welded area of a gas turbine engine component that is being repaired such as the cam follower track of an augmenter case. It is important that the device provide sufficient heat for the stress relief process while also minimizing the amount of heat delivered to areas adjacent to the area being repaired.

The invention is a heating apparatus and method that provides localized heat treatment to the welded area of a repaired gas turbine engine component. The heating apparatus includes two heating elements the first of which is sized to fit inside a recess in the gas turbine engine component and the second of which is sized to fit outside the recess adjacent to the first heating element. The heating apparatus provides heat to the welded area from two sides and minimizes the heat delivered to other parts of the gas turbine engine component.

Heating element includes support rod insulating tube and conducting wire . Support rod must be made of a material that can withstand the heating process without distortion so that the heating process can be repeated many times. For example support rod may be made of INCONEL 625 a nickel based alloy that has significant strength through a very wide temperature range. Support rod is located inside tube and is used to support tube in proper position. Tube is made of a thermal insulator typically a ceramic such as alumina. Tube is surrounded by wire which is coiled around tube to create a heating element. Wire is made from a metal that has the appropriate resistance to create a heating element. For example wire may be made of NiCr which is a well known material that is available in many different diameters and resistances. Wire is connected to a power supply and control system not shown . For example wire may be connected to a 120 volt power supply and a proportional integral derivative PID controller.

Heating assembly further includes heating element which includes support rod insulating tube and conducting wire . Support rod like support rod must be made of a material that can withstand the heating process without distortion such as INCONEL 625 nickel based alloy so that the heating process can be repeated many times. Support rod is placed inside tube and is used to support tube in place. Tube is made of a thermal insulator typically a ceramic such as alumina. Tube is surrounded by wire which is coiled around tube to create a heating element. Wire is made from a metal such as NiCr that has the appropriate resistance to create a heating element. Wire like wire is also connected to the power supply and control system not shown .

In repairing a damaged cam follower track in the augmenter case of a gas turbine engine the first step is to build up the worn area of the cam follower track using any suitable welding process. Next heating assembly is used to provide local stress relief of the newly welded area of the cam follower track. While heat treating the welded area of the repaired cam follower track enough heat must be placed uniformly along the welded area to complete the stress relief cycle.

At the same time it is desirable to minimize the heating of adjacent areas such as nearby assembly rivets which might be damaged by the high heat needed for stress relief. A gas turbine engine including the augmenter case is built with parts that have very close tolerances and must have specific dimensions in order to fit together with the other parts of the gas turbine engine. Heating of the augmenter case during repair of the cam follower track may alter those dimensions. Areas adjacent to the cam follower track especially nearby assembly rivets may be damaged if they are heated to the high temperature needed for local stress relief of the repaired area of the cam follower track. Assembly rivets for example must be kept below about 600 F. 315 C. .

It is also desirable to prevent surface contamination of the titanium augmenter case. The augmenter case is made of titanium which is very sensitive to surface contamination. Temperature is the primary factor driving surface contamination of titanium so heat treating increases the danger that the titanium surface of the augmenter case will become contaminated. Surface contamination of titanium begins around about 600 F. 315 C. while heat treating of the welded area typically requires temperatures around about 1100 F. 595 C. .

Finally a sharp temperature gradient between the welded area of the cam follower track that is being heated and the areas adjacent to it is not desirable. A sharp temperature gradient may introduce unwanted stress in the material of the augmenter case.

As shown in the welded area is along an edge of cam follower track . As shown in after the damaged area of the cam follower track has been built up during the welding step heating element is positioned inside cam follower track adjacent to welded area . Heating element is positioned outside of cam follower track along the other side of welded area . In some applications thermocouples may be attached along welded area to monitor temperatures and control the heating process.

After heating element and heating element are properly positioned with respect to welded area heating element and heating element are turned on for an appropriate amount of time to provide heat treatment to welded area . The two heating elements on either side of the welded area ensure thorough and uniform heating the welded area.

To reduce oxidation and contamination of the titanium augmenter case the augmenter case may be sectioned off and sealed inside a polycarbonate tent which is then filled with an inert gas such as argon. Fans or focused air cooling can be used to cool the exterior areas of the augmenter case that are not being heat treated.

The area to be heat treated is sealed inside the tent and the inert gas is continuously pumped into the tent to eliminate or at least minimize the oxygen in the tent. Power is then applied to the heating elements until an appropriate temperature is obtained. In embodiments the stress relief process calls for heating the augmenter case to a temperature of about 1100 F. 595 C. and holding the augmenter case at that temperature for approximately 90 minutes in an inert gas atmosphere. Upon completion of the heating process the heating elements are removed and the augmenter case is cooled to room temperature. The process can then be repeated on other cam follower tracks in the same case until all necessary repairs are completed.

The invention is a heating apparatus and method that provides localized heat treatment to the welded area of a repaired gas turbine engine component such as the cam follower track of an augmenter case. The heating apparatus includes two heating elements the first of which is sized to fit inside a recess in the engine component such as the cam follower track and the second of which is sized to fit outside the recess adjacent to the first heating element. The heating apparatus provides heat to the welded area from two sides and by focusing heat application on the welded area the apparatus minimizes the heat delivered to other parts of the engine component.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the heating apparatus could be used to locally heat treat any weld repaired area on an engine case or engine hardware. Due to the round shape of the heating elements this design is particularly advantageous for use in heat treating either inside or outside corners or on edges where two surfaces meet.

