---

title: Method and apparatus for transporting images
abstract: A portable image transport device and corresponding techniques for image transport are disclosed. The portable image transport device accommodates an automatic initiation of image transport when the device is in a designated location by automatically recognizing the location condition and then engaging in communication with a medical device having an image capture capability. A variety of image transport may be performed, such as sending the received image to a printer for printing a hard copy. The portable image transport device also manages restrictions on image transport. Various restrictions may apply including but not limited to the type of devices to which the transport may be made, or certain registered devices to ensure transport only within a defined set of recipient classes or particularly identified recipients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08144948&OS=08144948&RS=08144948
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08144948
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
This invention relates generally to medical image devices and more particularly to methods and apparatus for transporting medical images.

The use of digital imagery has become relatively prolific in the medical industry for original imagery as well as for post image acquisition processes wherein images are distributed or shared to further medical treatment and for other reasons.

Typically medical service providers use stand alone systems that are configured to communicate with corresponding dedicated devices. These types of systems are inflexible and cannot communicate with a variety of devices. Where addition of a new device is even available as a potential option alterations to the stand alone system are typically very costly and time consuming rendering the opportunity for change relatively unavailable.

Additionally the systems typically use a relatively large workstation with tethered corresponding peripheral devices. This limits the usefulness of the peripheral devices and unduly consumes working space where such space is at a premium.

The implementation of mobile imaging devices that could be used to store and share imagery from surgical or other medical procedures without requiring a tethered connection to a computer has been proposed but a completely viable solution has not been developed for a number of reasons.

One problem is that there are a number of different medical devices including stationary scanning devices devices that are used within the body and others and these different medical devices are provided by a variety of manufacturers.

Another problem is the potential for unauthorized image capture and or distribution. Medical information is highly sensitive and subject to significant privacy constraints so the capture and distribution of such information should be subject to restrictions that prevent unauthorized parties from capturing images or receiving captured images that are otherwise authorized but which need to be subject to restrictions on distribution.

There remains a need for a portable medical image device that is convenient while also accommodating interoperability with a variety of devices and that facilitates restrictions on the distribution of medical image content where necessary.

The present invention provides a portable image transport device and corresponding techniques for image transport.

According to one embodiment the portable image transport device accommodates an automatic initiation of image transport when the device is in a designated location by automatically engaging in communication with a medical device having an image capture capability to further an image transport. This may comprise receiving an indication that the device is present at a designated location such as by location determination or by a signal that uniquely identifies a location. Upon such an indication the device initiates a communication with a medical device having an image capture capability. The medical device may be verified as registered for transporting images through the device. An image is then received from the medical device and transported to another device.

A variety of image transport may be performed such as sending the received image to a printer for printing a hard copy. There confirmation of successful printing may be returned to the image transport device using the wireless connection while the device remains at the designated location. This allows the surgeon or other operator to be free to review and print images without having to physically interface with other devices and without having to verify that printing has been successful freeing time and attention for other activities.

According to another aspect the portable image transport device manages restrictions on image transport. This may comprise communicating with a medical device having an image capture capability using a wireless connection between the image transport device and the medical device and verifying that the medical device is registered for transporting images through the image transport device. The medical device is also correlated to image parameters that may indicate a variety of information such as the format and content of the images as well as recipient classification information that restricts transport of the images from the registered medical device. The image transport device is then allowed to receive images from the medical device and transport the received images subject to the identified transport restrictions.

In one example the hospital or other service provider may manage information related to medical devices with an association of any given medical device to any given patient at a given time being ascertained and retained. It is thus ascertainable that the medical device at a given time is associated with a particular patient. The image transport parameters incorporate identification of the patient in association with the recipient classification information to restrict distribution or other transport of the images accordingly. Various restrictions may apply including but not limited to the type of devices to which the transport may be made certain registered devices to ensure transport only within a defined set of recipient classes or particularly identified recipients or the like.

The present invention can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

The PMID includes a small display area that enables users to view images right on the device without the need to connect to a computer. A variety of display technologies are well known for this purpose including but not limited to LCD and OLED displays.

The device also includes a viewfinder and a button for engaging in a conventional image capture as well as input buttons that may be configured to accommodate a variety of functions preferably in correspondence with a user interface that is provided through the display area . The user interface may for example be icon based with certain buttons providing cursor navigation and certain other buttons accommodating selection of highlighted items.

The PMID also may utilize a wireless connection between various devices including the digital image capture units of medical devices printers a workstation in a local area of interest e.g. operating room or another PMID. Connections to these various devices may also involve an existing network with the wireless connection established between a network router and the PMID . As an alternative a USB interface accommodates a connection to other equipment via a USB port.

The PMID may store images using industry standard JPEG or MPEG or uncompressed file formats. Preferably the PMID is configured to accommodate the presentation and transport of images in high definition formats suitable for medical imaging. A graphical user interface accommodates quick selection to share print or store images. According to one aspect the PMID is set to automatically receive images from registered devices and to automatically initiate the receipt of information when the PMID is brought into a local area of interest such as an operating room.

According to another aspect the PMID is configured to act as a gatekeeper for governing the capture and distribution of medical information by maintaining or otherwise accessing the registration of medical devices as well as other information useful for identifying a restriction.

The PMID also provides numerous useful features such as the ability to apply an audio annotation to an image through a built in microphone not shown in or through a headset configured to communicate with the portable medical imaging device such as through a Blue Tooth connection. An example of an audio annotation is where a user speaks the annotation for a given image. The image with the audio annotation may then be shared in various ways as described herein with the annotation being a useful mechanism for the sender to flag the significance or provide some other associated context for the sent image. In one example a physician may easily add the audio annotation to a medical image as part of the medical record for that image.

A sharing functionality allows the sender to broadcast an image to a group of colleagues or other recipients subject to any restrictions on distribution or other transport if applicable for a current image. In addition images may be date time stamped and have a unique digital watermark to enhance the security of the image and to allow subsequent authentication of the image.

The PMID may be configured for integration with a variety of PC based medical systems including those provided with ultrasound or other medical image capturing systems.

The PMID may be provided in a variety of different form factors and execution platforms. is a schematic diagram illustrating another embodiment of a PMID wherein the form factor differs from that illustrated in . The PMID also includes and a button for engaging in a conventional image capture and other operations as well as input buttons configurable to accommodate a variety of functions and the corresponding display area . This embodiment may implement the form factor and execution platform provided by the MYLO personal communication device as provided by Sony Corporation Tokyo Japan. In this embodiment the PMID is preferably configured to implement a graphical user interface that provides icon based selection of tasks. The PMID may also include a keyboard the slides out for text entry. Annotation of images is accommodated through such text entry or by a microphone for audio annotation.

The PMID also engages in wireless communication with other devices to exchange images and potentially other information useful for managing the transport of such images. Examples of these devices are a workstation and a printer resident in the local area of interest. The printer may be used to request an immediate hard copy of an image that has been captured by the PMID or another device and possibly reviewed by the user through the PMID display screen. As described further below the PMID may use wireless LAN or various other wireless communications technologies and protocols in order to engage in wireless communication with other devices.

The PMID also facilities communications with devices outside the local area of interest which may be accommodated using a wired or wireless connection using conventional network communications or the like. For example a wireless LAN connection may be made to a hub that in turn accommodates connection through the hospital LAN to connect with a medical information management computer system. The medical information management system may exchange information with the PMID or may facilitate further connection to other devices including one or more other PMIDs printers displays in conference rooms workstations etc. Alternatively the connection to these devices may be made directly without requiring the medial information management system to intermediate.

There are still other alternatives. For example the PMID may use a wireless communication to communicate with devices outside the local area of interest without requiring the PMID to use the local area network or the like. In one embodiment the PMID also functions as a cellular telephone. In that example the medical images may be transported wirelessly using conventional cellular communication techniques.

Also in one embodiment the PMID includes location determination technology such as GPS that allows the PMID to monitor its location and to provide functions that are dictated or initiated by location.

The PMID also includes an image memory USB interface and wireless communication interface . The wireless communication interface accommodates wireless communication between the PMID and other devices. In one embodiment the wireless communication interface is a WLAN network interface such as one adherent to one or more of the 802.11 family of standards including implementations referred to as Wi Fi. The wireless communication interface may also implement other wireless communication standards and techniques such as the type used for short range communication directly with other devices e.g. Bluetooth . Finally various conventional protocols may be used to accommodate communication through the wireless connection dependent upon the connection type and the type of network over which the communication is made.

The USB interface provides another alternative communication such as where the interfacing device does not have the capability of communicating with the PMID through the described wireless connection s . There the PMID may be interfaced using the USB port of the corresponding device and may communicate with that device accordingly to engage in the transport of images or the like.

The PMID also includes additional image memory which may be a dedicated memory or may be an interface for receiving a flash memory card on which images are stored.

Some or all of the PMID functionality may be software based with the functions being carried out by processor execution of the instructions stored therein. An image decoding and encoding module accommodates the encoding of raw digital images to compressed formats as noted and may also decode previously encoded images to provide them in raw format both of which are useful where such a format is desired in connection with image transport. The display interface module provides a graphical user interface through the previously described display through which the user may review and manage images and their transport using the control buttons. The image capture management module interfaces with the controls and the image pickup device or corresponding buffers to receive digital image information and also allows the user to generally manage currently and previously captured images for retention disposal etc.

Finally the image transport management module operates to provide image transport functionality in conjunction with the other elements of the PMID . The image transport management module is preferably software but may alternatively be hardware or firmware or various combinations thereof.

According to one aspect the image transport management module accommodates an automatic initiation of image transport when the PMID is in a designated location by automatically recognizing the location condition and then engaging in communication with a medical device having an image capture capability to further an image transport. The may comprise receiving an indication that the PMID is present at a designated location and upon such an indication initiating a communication with a medical device having an image capture capability. In conjunction with this the medical device is verified as registered for transporting images through the PMID . Once this is done the PMID receives an image from the medical device and transports the received image to another device.

A variety of image transporting may be performed such as sending the received image to a printer for printing a hard copy. There confirmation of successful printing may be returned to the PMID using the wireless connection while the PMID remains at the designated location. This allows the surgeon or other operator to be free to review and print images without having to physically interface with other devices and without having to verify that printing has been successful freeing time and attention for other activities.

According to another aspect the image transport management module manages restrictions on image transport. This may comprise communicating with a medical device having an image capture capability using the wireless connection between the PMID and the medical device and verifying that the medical device is registered for transporting images through the PMID . The medical device is also correlated to image parameters that may indicate a variety of information such as the format and content of the images as well as recipient classification information that restricts transport of the images from the registered medical device. The PMID is allowed to receive images from the medical device and transport the received images subject to the identified transport restrictions.

In one example the hospital or other service provider manages information related to medical devices with an association of any given medical device to any given patient at a given time being ascertained and retained. It is thus ascertainable that the medical device at a given time is associated with a particular patient. The image transport parameters incorporate identification of the patient in association with the recipient classification information to restrict distribution or other transport of the images accordingly. Various restrictions may apply including but not limited to the type of devices to which the transport may be made certain registered devices to ensure transport only within a define set of recipient classes or particularly identified recipients or the like.

The image output module maintains information regarding the types of devices to which images are transported as well as the corresponding formats for those images. In many examples the images will be retained and transported using compressed formats but in others raw digital image data may be required. The image output module associates recipient devices or particular recipients to these requirements such as in a table or other database that identifies such information.

The connection management module manages and communicates with other PMID elements to instruct them to carry out the various types of connections required or desired for communications with other devices including but not limited to connection to other devices through the wireless LAN. The connection management module is also in communication with the image output module to relay instructions corresponding to a desired image output in carrying out the connection and communications with the recipient device.

The medical device registration module maintains and updates the database of information about devices with which the PMID may communicate to send and receive medical images. In one example the device is a medical device having an image capture capability. This allows the PMID to receive images captured from that device in lieu of using the image capture functionality provided by the PMID. Devices may also include other devices including but not limited to other PMIDs printers displays etc. The registration module uniquely identifies each device and also preferably stores other information about the device including default format format capabilities default display mode display capabilities and location. The other information about the device also preferably includes device classification a list of one or more individuals associated with the device and other information useful for carrying out restricted transport modes of operation. The database referred to for the medical device registration module may be separate from that of the image output module or more preferably the various modules may correspond with a single database of information managed by the image transport management module .

The image distribution management module manages the transport of images including an identification of characteristics related to an image to be transported as well as the information about recipients and recipient devices. In that regard the image distribution management module accommodates receipt of input from the user wherein the user indicates which devices or individuals are to receive images and which devices are to provide images to the PMID. This may be accommodated by the graphical user interface provided through the PMID display and corresponding input from the control buttons. In this regard the image distribution management module accesses and augments the information in the image transport management module database.

The image distribution management module also carries out transport restrictions. In one mode of operation the transport of images is not subject to restrictions. There the image distribution management module communicates with the medical device registration module and the image output module ensures that an image can be sent e.g. format compatibility etc. and interfaces with the user to resolve any incompatibility or other issues that arise in connection with a requested image transport. When there are restrictions on image transport the image distribution management module still performs the above processes but also subjects any requested image transport to the restrictions that are identified in association with the particular image location originating device destination device etc. For example the event of image capture may correspond to a particular procedure that is performed on a particular patient. A patient code identifies the record for this image and allows correlation to other information fields including the identification of the procedure the patient s consent level designated authorized recipient etc. for image transport etc.

The location designation module allows designations of various locations that are stored and maintained in correlation with functionality that is dictated or initiated by the location of the PMID. In one embodiment the PMID includes location determining technology such as GPS which allows ascertaining the location of the PMID at any given time. In conjunction with this the location designation module may store coordinates corresponding to local areas of interest. For example the coordinates of a particular operating room may be identified. When the PMID is determined to be present within a given radius from those coordinates it is determined that the PMID is present in that particular operating room. This location designation may also be correlated to which patient is in the room with correlation to time using a trusted clock either resident in the PMID or communicated to the PMID being available to further this determination as well which medical devices are presumed to be in the operating room as well as doctors other medical personnel etc.

In another example a specific signal is provided in areas of interest with the PMID receiving the beacon signal and distinguishing particular locations accordingly. The specific signal may for example be a short range wireless communication that also embeds an identification code corresponding to the location e.g. operating room scanning room operating room etc. . The location is thus identified to the PMID. The ordinarily skilled artisan will readily recognize other alternatives for conveying the location of the PMID and associating it with particular locations.

As another example the PMID is used for patient monitoring and reporting preferably with the PMID communicating wirelessly with other medical products e.g. heart monitoring blood pressure etc. . In this example a medical practitioner could be altered of a sudden change in the patient s vital signs. In addition this alert could be captured on the imaging device as an additional recorded event. The medical practitioner e.g. a doctor could upon receipt of such an alert choose to mute the audible alert and have the display show vital status update information or other information about the medical condition. Additionally a simple text message from another medical device could be sent to the PMID. In that circumstance the doctor would be able to read this on the spot and update this information to an existing electronic medical record.

Doctors would be able to easily view on the PMID display screen if there were any alerts for his patients saving time and keeping informed without having to call a nurse or another attending physician oh a patient s status.

As an additional example real time monitoring is provided where the associated medical device transmits an electronic signal back to an intensive care monitoring station. This image transporter could connect to an already existing system within the hospital network.

With regard to medical environments the PMID can be used in all areas of a hospital or stand alone imaging center or private practice. Any medical device or medical system that can capture images provide detailed scientific medical information can be interfaced with the PMID. Examples include but are not necessarily limited to 

The PMID also correlates the particular medical device with the designated location. To do this the PMID retains information including an identification of one or more medical devices that are associated with the designated location. The medical devices have image capture capability and are configured to communicate wirelessly. This allows the PMID to engage in initial communications and to identify that the particular medical device is active in the designated location. In conjunction with correlation of the designated location to the medical device the PMID also verifies that the medical device is registered for transporting medical images through the PMID again by making reference to the database of information. There may or may not be restrictions on such transport.

Once these initialization procedures have taken place the PMID may receive one or more images from the particular medical device. These images may then be transported as requested by the user. For example the user may want to print the image on a printer within the designated location. This may be actuated by the noted control buttons in conjunction with the user interface provided by the PMID display screen. Additional transport options have been described previously and may include distribution of the image to other devices at the same or other locations. The PMID retains format and other information regarding the captured image as well as the demands of recipient devices and thus may indicate compatibility issues or adjust accordingly e.g. encoding to a different format prior to sending to another device . The PMID may also be equipped with encryption capability should secure communication be sought in addition to whatever security techniques are applied to the wireless communication channel between devices. Finally the PMID is equipped to receive and report confirmation of successful image transport such as by an indication that the image has been sent or that the image has been printed.

The PMID correlates the particular medical device to image transport parameters that are associated with the captured image. As described above this may be performed by referencing database information corresponding to the particular medical device the corresponding procedure being performed time of day the identification of the patent etc. It should be noted that the PMID does not necessarily need to completely rely upon self stored or maintained information to make the correlation to the image transport parameters. When connected to a medical information management system for example the PMID may simply access the image transport parameters for a given procedure from that system. As also described previously the image transport parameters may include information about the image itself such as preferred formats and other destination display constraints. The image transport parameters also include designations as to particular devices particular individuals or classes of devices or individuals that may receive or otherwise access the captured image. Accordingly the PMID receives the image from the particular image device and then transports the received image to another device subject to restrictions provided by the image transport parameters.

It is noted that although medical image capture and transport is one example of a useful application the imaging device of the present invention is not limited to such applications. For example the device may be used in broadcast video applications video conferencing and other applications.

With regard to broadcast video the device may select MPEG 2 clips from XDCAM whether SD or HD sent to the device for viewing or sharing. Images may also be transmitted to an HD Exchange network system for sharing files and archiving in a broadcast environment. With regard to video conferencing the device may implement two way audio and video.

The device can also be used to send video clips containing images and or video to a monitor equipped with an IP expansion port. This allows anyone using the device to share movie clips audio clips still images etc. with others on a larger screen.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide methods and apparatus for image transport. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

