---

title: High voltage methanol fuel cell assembly using proton exchange membranes and base/acid electrolytes
abstract: An electrolyte membrane assembly for use in a fuel cell or other electrochemical device includes an ion exchange membrane, a base electrolyte reservoir configured and operable to maintain a volume of a basic electrolyte solution in contact with at least some of the first face of the membrane, and an acid electrolyte reservoir configured and operable to maintain a volume of an acidic electrolyte in contact with at least a portion of the second face of the membrane. The membrane may be a cation exchange membrane or an anion exchange membrane. Also disclosed are fuel cells which incorporate the electrolyte membrane assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08026017&OS=08026017&RS=08026017
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08026017
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070316
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates generally to fuel cells. More specifically the invention relates to an electrolyte membrane assembly for a fuel cell and in specific instances it relates to a direct methanol fuel cell which incorporates the electrolyte membrane assembly.

Fuel cells are highly efficient silent power generating systems in which a fuel undergoes an oxidative chemical reaction and generates electrical current. Fuel cells are coming into increasing use as power sources for a variety of fixed and mobile applications including transportation systems electronic devices including computers cellular phones and specialized electronic equipment and the like. Fuel cells are also being used as stationery power sources for communication installations off grid building power and as backup power sources.

In a fuel cell an oxidative reaction typically oxidation of a fuel occurs at a catalytic surface of a first electrode and a reduction reaction typically reduction of oxygen occurs at a second electrode surface. The electrodes are separated as for example by a membrane which is ion permeable but has very low electron conductivity. In a cell of this type an external circuit allows for the passage of electrons from one electrode to the other so as to balance the chemical reactions and it is this flow of electrons which generates power. For reasons of simplicity and material compatibility most fuel cells presently in use utilize hydrogen as a fuel gas and air or oxygen as an oxidizer. Storage and delivery of the hydrogen fuel can complicate and limit the utility of such fuel cells. In order to overcome these problems significant efforts have been extended to develop fuel cells running on liquid fuels and methanol fueled fuel cells referred to also as direct methanol fuel cells DMFC have been developed.

In conventional direct methanol fuel cells of the type known in the art methanol is oxidized at an anode which is typically comprised of a body of electrically conductive material having a platinum based catalyst thereupon. The anode reaction is as follows CHOH HO CO 6H 6 0.02V In a cell of this type the cathode reaction is as follows 3 2O 6 6H 3HO 1.23V

In a cell of this type the anode and cathode are separated by an ion exchange membrane which allows protons generated in the anode reaction to pass therethrough to the cathode. The membrane does not permit the passage of electrons and these flow through an external circuit to provide an output voltage. Membranes of the type typically used in such cells can include perfluorosulfonate materials such as those sold under the trademark Nafion by the DuPont Chemical Corporation. The theoretical potential difference in a cell in which the foregoing reactions take place is 1.21V. However the practical cell voltage of such fuel cells is only 0.7V under open circuit conditions and 0.4V under typical operational discharge rates. This is because of the slow catalytic kinetic rate of methanol oxidation at the anode and methanol cross over from the anode to the cathode through the electrolyte membrane which causes cathode electrode depolarization. These phenomena are well known in the art.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that there is significant room for improvement in the field of direct methanol fuel cells. Any improvement which can increase the voltage of such cells will greatly enhance their utility by allowing more compact power sources to be implemented. As will be described in detail hereinbelow the present invention concerns membrane assemblies for fuel cells which may be advantageously incorporated into a variety of fuel cells including direct methanol or other liquid fuel fuel cells. The direct methanol fuel cells incorporating the assembly of the present invention are reliable rugged and operate at high output voltages. These and other advantages will be apparent from the drawings discussion and description which follow.

Disclosed is an electrolyte membrane assembly which may be used in an electrochemical device such as a fuel cell. The assembly includes an ion exchange membrane having opposed first and second faces a base electrolyte reservoir configured and operable to maintain a volume of a basic electrolyte solution in contact with at least a portion of the first face of the membrane and an acid electrolyte reservoir configured and operable to maintain a volume of an acidic electrolyte in contact with at least a portion of the second face of the membrane. The membrane may be a cation exchange membrane such as a proton exchange membrane and one particular type of proton exchange membrane is a perfluorosulfonate polymer membrane. In other instances the membrane may be an anion exchange membrane. The reservoirs may include basic electrolyte materials such as an alkaline metal hydroxide as well as acidic electrolytes such as an aqueous solution of phosphoric acid.

Further disclosed is a fuel cell which includes the electrolyte membrane assembly. The fuel cell will further include an anode which is disposed in a spaced apart relationship with a first face of the membrane a basic electrolyte solution disposed between the anode and the first face of the membrane as well as a cathode disposed in a spaced apart relationship with a second face of the membrane and having an acidic electrolyte disposed between it and the second face of the membrane. The fuel cell may further include a reservoir for a fuel. The reservoir is in operative communication with the anode. The fuel cell may further include an oxidizer reservoir in operative communication with a cathode. Further fuel cell structures such as current collectors electrical leads housings and the like may be used in combination with the foregoing fuel cell structure.

The present invention in one aspect concerns an electrolyte membrane assembly for a fuel cell. In general the assembly comprises an ion exchange membrane having differing electrolyte materials disposed at either face thereof. In particular the assembly will include an ion exchange membrane which may be an anion exchange membrane or a cation exchange membrane. The assembly further includes a base electrolyte reservoir which is configured and operable to maintain a volume of a basic electrolyte solution in contact with at least a portion of a first face of the membrane. The assembly further includes an acid electrolyte reservoir configured and operable to maintain a volume of an acidic electrolyte in contact with at least a portion of the second face of the membrane. This assembly may be implemented in a variety of configurations and show one such particular configuration.

Referring now to there is shown a front elevational view of an electrolyte membrane assembly which includes a membrane . As noted above this membrane may be any one of a variety of membranes which are capable of allowing for the passage of an ionic current therethrough. As such these membranes may be proton exchange membranes such as perfluorosulfonates and the like or they may be anion exchange membranes. As is known in the art such membrane materials in some instances comprise polymers while in other instances they may comprise ceramics and in specific instances the membranes may operate at elevated temperatures.

As is shown in a first reservoir is in contact with a portion of the membrane . This reservoir is operative to contain an electrolyte material therein and to allow access of the electrolyte material to at least a portion of the membrane. As is shown in a central portion of the assembly exposes a section of the membrane which has electrolyte in contact therewith. The reservoir may include one or more openings therein which allow for replenishment and or removal of electrolyte therefrom.

Referring now to there is shown a cross sectional view of the electrolyte membrane assembly of taken along line . As we see from a membrane as described above has a first reservoir in contact with the first face thereof. As was apparent from the reservoir is configured as a frame which surrounds a portion of the membrane. The frame portions of the reservoir are adapted and configured to retain a volume of electrolyte material therein and is shown in the figure opening allows for fluid communication between the reservoir and the portion of the face of the membrane . Also visible in is the back wall portion of the reservoir . From it will be further seen that the reservoir includes a filler opening which allows for electrolyte to be filled thereinto.

A second reservoir is disposed in contact with the opposite face of the membrane . This reservoir is generally similar to the first reservoir and in that regard includes openings which allow for fluid communication between the reservoir and the membrane . Likewise shows the back wall of the second reservoir as well as a filler opening .

In a typical electrolyte membrane assembly of the type shown herein the electrolytes will be acidic and basic solutions and may be aqueous based solutions non aqueous solutions or mixed solutions of aqueous and non aqueous materials. The reservoir should be fabricated from materials which are compatible with the electrolytes and in most instances synthetic polymeric materials will serve for this purpose.

It is to be understood that the reservoirs may be otherwise configured. For example the reservoir may extend across a portion of the face of the membrane and as such may comprise a grid or mesh like member. In other instances the reservoir may cover the entirety of the membrane provided that the reservoir does not impede chemical reactions in the fuel cell. For example the reservoir may comprise a sponge like or other bibulous body which retains a volume of electrolyte. Yet other variations and modifications will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

The electrolyte membrane assemblies in the present invention may be implemented into a variety of electrochemical cells wherein paired oxidation reduction reactions generate an electrical current. As mentioned above these assemblies have specific utility in fuel cells including direct methanol fuel cells. However these assemblies may be utilized in other devices such as metal air batteries which are to be considered to be a type of fuel cell within the context of this disclosure. While as mentioned the assemblies have very broad utility in electrochemical applications they will be described with particular reference to a direct methanol fuel cell. However it should be understood that this invention is not so limited and one of skill in the art can readily implement the principles disclosed herein in a variety of devices.

Referring now to there is shown a fuel cell which incorporates the disclosed electrolyte membrane assembly. The cell is for purposes of illustration described as being a direct methanol fuel cell. As discussed above the electrolyte membrane assembly includes a membrane a first reservoir and a second reservoir . In the fuel cell of an anode is disposed in contact with the first reservoir . A volume of a basic electrolyte is disposed in the first reservoir and is maintained in contact with the membrane and the anode . The concentrations and compositions of the electrolytes used in combination with the present electrolyte membrane assemblies are generally typical of those used in the art. Electrolyte concentrations of 5 to 60 by weight are typically utilized and in particular instances concentrations in the range of 30 to 40 by weight are utilized.

A cathode is disposed in contact with the second reservoir and an acidic electrolyte is disposed in the space between the membrane and the cathode . As shown a pair of endplates seal the fuel cell.

As further shown in a first conduit is in communication with the anode and a second conduit is in communication with the cathode . These conduits may be used to lead an electrical current therefrom. In yet other instances separate electrodes may be used for this purpose.

In the fuel cell of fuel is supplied to the anode from a fuel reservoir disposed between the anode and endplate . This reservoir may be in fluid communication with a fuel source not shown . This source may comprise a tank or other such vessel. Likewise the cathode is supplied with air or another such oxidizer from an oxidizer reservoir disposed between the cathode and endplate . This reservoir may be in fluid communication with a source of an oxidizer not shown such as a pump a tank or the like.

In a fuel cell of this type a cationic exchange membrane will allow only cations to pass therethrough and block anions conversely an anionic exchange membrane will only allow anions to pass therethrough blocking cations. The ion exchange membrane thus will be seen to block any unwanted ion transport through the cell. In this assembly the base electrolyte will form a thin liquid layer between the anode and the ion exchange membrane and the acid electrolyte will form another thin layer between the cathode and the ion exchange membrane. A potential will build up between the interfaces of the membrane and this will eventually stop the continuation of such ion exchange and neutralization between the base and the acid. Therefore the base membrane acid system can be stabilized for a long time. This combination of base membrane acid referred to as a BMA electrolyte assembly is very useful in fuel cells and air batteries.

In those instances where the electrolyte membrane assembly is utilized in conjunction with a direct methanol fuel cell electrode reactions will differ from those in a conventional prior art fuel cell. The anode reaction will be as follows CHOH 8 OH CO 6HO 6 1.04 The cathode reaction will be as follows 3 2O 6 6H 3HO 1.23 The theoretical potential difference between the anode and the cathode of a fuel cell of this type is 2.27V. Actual experimental open cell voltages measured for cells of this type is 2.0V and operation voltage under typical discharge conditions is 1.4V. This high cell voltage is useful for achieving high power output when the cell is in discharge and allows for the use of more compact cell structures.

An experimental series was carried out evaluating direct methanol fuel cells of the type described hereinabove. In this experimental series the fuel cells were of the general configurations shown in . Perfluorosulfonate membrane material Nafion 117 from the DuPont Corporation was used as an exchange membrane. The basic electrolyte was an aqueous solution of 30 KOH and the acid electrolyte was a 40 aqueous solution of HPO. The reservoirs were fabricated from a hard plastic chemically stable material. The cathode and anode electrodes were fabricated from carbon cloth obtained from E Tek Inc. The anode was coated with a catalyst of PtRu black and the cathode was coated with a catalyst of Pt black. Current collectors comprising titanium plates of approximately 0.7 mm thickness were affixed to each of the electrodes. The titanium plates included a number of small holes therethrough which allowed for passage of fuel air and electrolyte. Endplates of a hard plastic material closed off the cell. Fuel for the cell comprised a 4 M concentration of methanol. Air was the oxidant. Performance of the fuel cell was evaluated using a battery test station manufactured by the Arbin Instruments Corporation.

In the first experiment the discharge performance of the aforedescribed base membrane acid BMA membrane assembly direct methanol fuel cell BMA electrolyte DMFC was compared with that of a conventional proton exchange membrane direct methanol fuel cell PEM DMFC . The prior art cell was fabricated in accord with the foregoing except that a Nafion 117 membrane was substituted for the BMA assembly.

In a second experimental series the long term discharge performance of the BMA electrolyte cell was compared with that of the prior art PEM DMFC cells. In this experiment both cells were discharged at a constant current of 45 mA for each 9 cmcell which gave a current level of 5 mA cm. As will be seen the voltage of both cells decreases somewhat as the methanol is being consumed however the average discharge voltage of the BMA electrolyte DMFC is about 0.8V more than that of the prior art PEM DMFC.

In a further experiment of this series the effect of discharge rate on the performance of the BMA electrolyte DMFC cell was examined under constant current discharge at rates of 1 2 and 5 mA cm. This data is summarized in . As will be seen the BMA electrolyte DMFC shows very good discharge performances at all of the rates.

In a further experimental series the stability of the BMA electrolyte DMFC was examined under open circuit conditions over an extended period of time. The results thereof are summarized in and it will be seen that there is a slight decrease in voltage during the first 10 hours because of methanol crossover from the anode to the cathode. Then the voltage becomes stable at 1.6V during an extended period of at least 40 hours.

From the foregoing it will be seen that the electrode membrane assembly of the present invention provides significant improvements in the performance characteristics of direct methanol fuel cells. Similar enhancements in performance will also be noted with regard to other fuel cell applications including fuel cells operating on other liquid fuels as well as fuel cells operating on solid or gaseous fuels. As noted above metal air batteries are considered to be a type of fuel cell and such electrochemical systems will also benefit from the membrane assembly disclosed herein.

In view of the foregoing it is understood that numerous modifications and variations of this invention will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art. The foregoing drawings discussion and description are illustrative of specific embodiments but are not meant to be limitations upon the practice of this invention. It is the following claims including equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

