---

title: Systems and methods for analyzing communication sessions using fragments
abstract: Systems and methods for analyzing communication sessions using fragments are provided. In this regard, a representative method includes: delineating fragments of an audio component of a communication session, each of the fragments being attributable to a party of the communication session; and automatically assessing quality of at least some of the fragments such that a quality assessment of the communication session is determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07801055&OS=07801055&RS=07801055
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 07801055
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070327
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 540 353 entitled Systems and Methods for Analyzing Communication Sessions Using Fragments filed on Sep. 29 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein.

It is desirable in many situations to record communications such as telephone calls. This is particularly so in a contact center in which many agents may be handling hundreds of telephone calls each every day. Recording of these telephone calls can allow for quality assessment of agents improvement of agent skills and or dispute resolution for example.

In this regard assessment of call quality is time consuming and very subjective. For instance a telephone call may last from a few seconds to a few hours and may be only one part of a customer transaction or may include several independent transactions. The demeanor of the caller is also influenced by events preceding the actual conversation for example the original reason for the call the time spent waiting for the call to be answered or the number of times the customer has had to call before getting through to the right person.

Assessing the quality of a telephone call is therefore difficult and subject to error even when done by an experienced supervisor or full time quality assessor. Typically the assessment of a call is structured according to a pre defined set of criteria and sub criteria. Some of these may relate to the initial greeting the assessment of the reason for the call the handling of the core reason for the call confirming that the caller is satisfied with the handling of the call and leaving the call.

Automation of the assessment process by provision of standardized forms and evaluation profiles have made such assessment more efficient but it is still impractical to assess more than a tiny percentage of calls. Moreover even with a structured evaluation form different assessors will evaluate a call differently with quite a wide variation of scores.

In this regard systems and methods for analyzing communication sessions using fragments are provided. An embodiment of such a system comprises. An embodiment of a method comprises delineating fragments of an audio component of a communication session each of the fragments being attributable to a party of the communication session and automatically assessing quality of at least some of the fragments such that a quality assessment of the communication session is determined.

An embodiment of such a system comprises a communication analyzer operative to delineate fragments of an audio component of a communication session each of the fragments being attributable to a party of the communication session and automatically assess quality of at least some of the fragments such that a quality assessment of the communication session is determined.

Computer readable media also are provided that have computer programs stored thereon for performing computer executable methods. In this regard an embodiment of such a method comprises delineating fragments of an audio component of a communication session each of the fragments being attributable to a party of the communication session and automatically assessing quality of at least some of the fragments such that a quality assessment of the communication session is determined.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Systems and methods for analyzing communication sessions using fragments are provided. In this regard several exemplary embodiments will be described in which a recording of a telephone call is divided into more manageable fragments. By way of example each of the fragments can be configured as contiguous speech of a party of the call. Additionally or alternatively at least some of the fragments can be identified by tracking other events such as on screen activity of one of the parties e.g. a customer service agent. Specific behaviors can therefore be identified automatically as each fragment can be assessed more easily and unambiguously than if the behaviors were attempted to be identified from within an undivided call. By automating the assessment of call quality a higher proportion of calls can be analyzed and hence a higher proportion of problem behaviors processes and issues identified and addressed with less effort and cost than alternative manual strategies.

In this regard is a schematic diagram illustrating an embodiment of a system for analyzing communication sessions using fragments. As shown in system incorporates a communication analyzer that is configured to analyze audio components of communications. In the audio component not shown is associated with a communication session that is occurring between a caller and an agent via a communication network . In this embodiment the agent is associated with a contact center that comprises numerous agents for interacting with customers e.g. caller .

One should note that network can include one or more different networks and or types of networks. As a non limiting example communications network can include a Wide Area Network WAN the Internet and or a Local Area Network LAN . Additionally the communication analyzer can receive information corresponding to the communication session directly or from one or more various components that are not illustrated in . By way of example the information can be provided from a long term storage device that stores recordings of the communication session with the recordings being provided to the storage device by a recorder. Additionally or alternatively the recordings could be provided directly from such a recorder.

In operation the analyzer of performs various functions or method steps as depicted in the flowchart of . As shown in the functions include as depicted in block delineating an audio component of a communication session into fragments. In particular in this embodiment each of the fragments is attributable to a party of the communication session and represents a contiguous period of time during which that party was speaking. By way of example one such fragment could involve a recording e.g. 4 seconds in duration of the speech of agent during a communication session with customer in which the agent greeted the customer. As shown in block the analyzer also automatically assesses quality of at least some of the fragments such that a quality assessment of the communication session is determined.

In some embodiments the parties to a communication session are recorded separately. In other embodiments a session can be recorded in stereo with one channel for the customer and one for the agent.

A vox detection analyzer of a communication analyzer can be used to determine when each party is talking. Such an analyzer typically detects an audio level above a pre determined threshold for a sustained period the vox turn on time . Absence of audio is then determined by the audio level being below a pre determined level which may be different from the first level for a pre determined time which may be different from the previous turn on time . By identifying audio presence on each of the two channels of recording of a call results in a time series through the call that identifies who if anyone is talking at any given time in the series.

Once audio presence is determined the call can be broken into fragments representing the period in which each party talks on the call. In this regard a fragment can be delimited by one or more of the following 

A schematic representation of an exemplary communication session and corresponding call fragments is depicted in . As shown in the communication session is a sequence of audio components depicted as blocks of an interaction between an agent and a customer that takes place over a 30 second time period. In particular the agent speaks for the first 4 seconds followed by a 1 second pause. The customer then speaks for 7 seconds followed by a 1 second pause. Thereafter the agent speaks for 7 seconds the last 2 seconds of which the customer begins speaking with the customer continuing to speak for another 2 seconds. After another 1 second pause the agent speaks for 5 seconds after which without pause the customer speaks for 2 seconds and the communication session ends. Notably although not shown in this example the reason for delimiting the fragment can be correlated with the fragment itself e.g. alongside the fragment resulting in a sequence of records.

Having broken a call into fragments the system can analyze the sequence and duration of the fragments. By way of example for each fragment some embodiments can determine one or more of the following 

In some embodiments statistics of the call can be deduced from the individual call fragment data. These may include one or more of 

As mentioned above a communication analyzer can automatically assess quality of a communication session by assessing quality of at least some of its fragments. In order to accomplish quality assessment various techniques can be used. By way of example fragment training can be used in which manual scoring is applied to one or more fragments and then the system applies comparable scoring to fragments that are evaluated to be similar.

In this regard in some embodiments individual fragments or sequences of two or more successive fragments are presented to the user of the system typically with a clear indication of which party is speaking and the delay between the two fragments. The user listens to some or all of the fragments and then indicates such as via a form on a screen provided by a scoring analyzer whether the fragments relate to a good bad or indifferent interaction for example. In many cases the isolated fragments will not indicate a particularly good or bad experience but in a small percentage of cases such fragments can indicate a particularly good or bad experience. By way of example a long delay between two successive fragments can be considered bad but in other cases the words uttered the tone or volume of the utterance may indicate a good or bad experience. This manual human assessment of the quality of the fragment sequence can be stored and used to drive machine learning algorithms.

In some embodiments in contrast to a scoring of good bad or indifferent a continuous scale e.g. 0 10 rating can be used. Additionally multiple criteria may be presented each of which the user can choose to provide feedback on such as Customer empathy and Persuasiveness for example. In many cases any particular fragment or fragment pair will not be particularly good or bad but as long as those cases that are at one extreme or the other are identified the system will receive valuable input.

In many cases however the fragments presented to the user may not show anything significant but may indicate that the previous or next fragments may provide more valuable input. Because of this the user may be presented with controls that allow the user to play the previous and or next fragment. Thus the user can provide feedback on those fragments and or move on to the next or previous fragment.

Where users assess whole calls the overall quality assessment of the call and the individual criteria sub criteria may be noted. These are then applied to either all fragments or where specific criteria are explicitly linked to particular regions of the call e.g. Quality of Greeting Confirmation of resolution to the fragments of the call according to a weighting function. In those embodiments that use weighting a different weighting can be applied to each fragment according to the distance of that fragment from the start of the call the end of the call or from some other known point within the call. It should be noted that point from which the fragment is measured for weighting purposes can be identified by an event that occurred during the call. The fragment can be subsequently stored with a timestamp linking the fragment to that point e.g. event in the call.

As mentioned before manual quality assessments can then be used by the system for enabling automated scoring of other fragments that have not been manually scored. Additionally or alternatively some embodiments can be provided with a number of heuristics such as predefined rules that the system can use during automated analysis by a scoring analyzer. In this regard such rules can involve one or more of the following 

The human input e.g. predefined rules and or examples of manually assessed calls fragments can be used as input for a variety of machine learning techniques such as neural nets and Bayesian filters expert systems for example. By identifying the characteristics of the call fragments that lead to the assessments given a system employing such a technique can learn to identify the relevant characteristics that differentiate good from bad calls.

An example of this approach is a Bayesian probability assessment of the content of a call fragment. In such an approach a transcript of a call may be processed and the frequency of the occurrence of each word within the customer s speech is stored. The proportion of good fragments in which each word occurs and the proportion of bad fragments in which each word occurs is then noted. These probabilities can then be used to assess whether other fragments are likely to be good or bad based on the words within those and the likelihood of each of the words to be found in a good or bad fragment. From the many words within a given fragment those that provide the strongest discrimination of good versus bad fragment can be used and the remainder discarded. Of the N strongest indicators an overall assessment can be made of good versus bad.

Typically the other attributes of a fragment such as those described above can be used as potential indicators of the good bad decision. These inputs may be provided to train a neural network or other machine learning system.

In some embodiments feedback can be used to further enhance analysis. Specifically since a high proportion of fragment sequences do not indicate particularly good or bad experiences it can be beneficial if a system presents to a user those fragments that is has identified as good or bad. By presenting these fragments and showing the assessment good or bad that the system has determined the user can be enabled to confirm or correct the assessment. This input can then be fed back into the training algorithm either reinforcing the correct assessment or helping to avoid repetition of the mistake made.

In this regard is a flowchart depicting functionality of an embodiment of a system that incorporates the use of feedback. As shown in the functionality or method may be construed as beginning at block in which a communication session is recorded. In block an audio component of the communication session is delineated as a sequence of fragments. In block inputs such as manual scoring of a subset of the fragments and or heuristics are received for enabling automated scoring of at least some of the fragments. In block the inputs are used in analyzing the fragments such that scores for at least some of the fragments that were not manually scored are produced. It should be noted that in some embodiments the fragments that are manually evaluated may not be associated with the communication session that is being automatically scored.

In block scores produced during automated analysis are presented to a user for review. By way of example the scores can be presented to the user via a graphical user interface displayed on a display device. Then in block inputs from the user either confirming or correcting the scores are provided with these inputs being used to update the analysis algorithm of the communication analyzer.

Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components. The processor may be a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor. Additionally the memory includes an operating system as well as instructions associated with a speech recognition engine a phonetic analyzer a vox detection analyzer and a scoring analyzer . Exemplary embodiments of each of which are described above.

It should be noted that embodiments of one or more of the systems described herein could be used to perform an aspect of speech analytics i.e. the analysis of recorded speech or real time speech which can be used to perform a variety of functions such as automated call evaluation call scoring quality monitoring quality assessment and compliance adherence. By way of example speech analytics can be used to compare a recorded interaction to a script e.g. a script that the agent was to use during the interaction . In other words speech analytics can be used to measure how well agents adhere to scripts identify which agents are good sales people and which ones need additional training. As such speech analytics can be used to find agents who do not adhere to scripts. Yet in another example speech analytics can measure script effectiveness identify which scripts are effective and which are not and find for example the section of a script that displeases or upsets customers e.g. based on emotion detection . As another example compliance with various policies can be determined. Such may be in the case of for example the collections industry where it is a highly regulated business and agents must abide by many rules. The speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify when agents are not adhering to their scripts and guidelines. This can potentially improve collection effectiveness and reduce corporate liability and risk.

In this regard various types of recording components can be used to facilitate speech analytics. Specifically such recording components can perform one or more various functions such as receiving capturing intercepting and tapping of data. This can involve the use of active and or passive recording techniques as well as the recording of voice and or screen data.

It should be noted that speech analytics can be used in conjunction with such screen data e.g. screen data captured from an agent s workstation PC for evaluation scoring analysis adherence and compliance purposes for example. Such integrated functionalities improve the effectiveness and efficiency of for example quality assurance programs. For example the integrated function can help companies to locate appropriate calls and related screen interactions for quality monitoring and evaluation. This type of precision monitoring improves the effectiveness and productivity of quality assurance programs.

Another aspect that can be accomplished involves fraud detection. In this regard various manners can be used to determine the identity of a particular speaker. In some embodiments speech analytics can be used independently and or in combination with other techniques for performing fraud detection. Specifically some embodiments can involve identification of a speaker e.g. a customer and correlating this identification with other information to determine whether a fraudulent claim for example is being made. If such potential fraud is identified some embodiments can provide an alert. For example the speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify the emotions of callers. The identified emotions can be used in conjunction with identifying specific concepts to help companies spot either agents or callers customers who are involved in fraudulent activities. Referring back to the collections example outlined above by using emotion and concept detection companies can identify which customers are attempting to mislead collectors into believing that they are going to pay. The earlier the company is aware of a problem account the more recourse options they will have. Thus the speech analytics of the present disclosure can function as an early warning system to reduce losses.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the programs listed herein which can include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions such as depicted in the flowcharts can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

