---

title: Method and apparatus for creating and categorizing exemplar structures to access information regarding a collection of objects
abstract: A method for managing a collection of objects, comprises selecting a property which is common to all of the objects; creating a plurality of exemplar structures, at least one exemplar structure for each object; prototypically categorizing the exemplar structures; and using the exemplar structures to access information regarding said collection. Each exemplar structure comprises an exemplar, which is a good example of the property; a broader term, which provides context to the exemplar; an object identifier, which identifies one of the collection of objects; and at least one attribute, which describes the exemplar.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08706770&OS=08706770&RS=08706770
owner: Renar Company, LLC
number: 08706770
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070322
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 117 773 filed Apr. 5 2002 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 197 506 on Mar. 27 2007 which claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 60 282 368 filed Apr. 6 2001 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is related to data management systems. More particularly the present invention is a collection management system that categorizes a group of objects content or organisms for maximum accessibility. The physical or perceptual properties which are accessed are user defined.

Current data management systems and search engines are able to perform low level sorts and superficial searches on a collection of data. For example most search engines receive input from a user in the form of one or more search terms and the search engine searches websites across the Internet for words which match those search terms. Although Boolean operators may be used to further define searches ultimately the searches are simple word matching techniques and classification methods are strictly hierarchical taxonomies built from classical categorization principles.

Terms are words used for some particular thing. Words however have a three sided character 1 conceptual the meaning of a word 2 physical how to pronounce or read a word and 3 syntactic the grammatical context in which a word is used. When a word is spoken the speaker is essentially unaware of anything but meaning. Yet the search terms of current data management systems only use the physical side of the character of a word. Word matching and metatag labeling typify this approach. Reliance on the physical properties of a word impoverishes searching and limits data management systems to binary operations in that either a word form is correct or it is not. Database inquiry is much the same.

Other data management systems attempt to create document summaries by extracting significant phrases via parts of speech taggers and simple grammar. Similar to word matching significant phrases are identified by frequency information in the document or database. This approach concentrates on the syntactic character of a word. However only when communication becomes distorted or confusing does a speaker pay any attention to grammatical context. A syntactic approach is also binary in that a word is either correctly used in a sentence or not. Document summary techniques incorporate two sides of a word s character physical and syntactic.

The simplistic nature of current search engines and data management systems is emphasized by the use and misuse of metatags. Metatags are terms that are used within a web site to increase the likelihood that a search engine will select a particular web site for presenting to the user. Since search engines look for words which match the search terms those web sites having a higher frequency of matches will be noted as the most relevant of the search results presented to the user. Misuse of metatags occurs when website operators try to drive traffic to a website by repeating certain metatags hundreds or even thousands of times in order to drive that particular website toward the most relevant of the search results. Often the words used in the metatags bear little or no relation to the websites in which they are implemented. In this manner search engines are misdirected to present websites which are not responsive to the search terms input by the users.

Categorization attempts to reduce the limitless variations of reality into manageable proportions. Current data management systems use classical theories of categorization to structure a database in terms of necessary and sufficient features for membership. If X is a member of Y then the properties of X are compared to the essential features of Y. Knowledge of this set of features encompasses what is known of Y.

Classical categorization techniques however can be inadequate when required to handle a continuum of information that is not easily categorized. Similar to the current computer file folder metaphor for desktop organization classical categories are binary and comprise an all or nothing approach. Information is either present or it is not and everything is potentially available since all information has equal status.

An alternative theory of categorization organizes the world by degree of membership. Known as prototypical categorization it involves a criss crossing network of similarities . Unlike classical categories that are strictly hierarchical prototype categories have a core and a periphery. Core members share more attributes in common than more marginal members. Ludwig Wittgenstein in 1945 anticipated the importance of prototypes in linguistic categorization when he used the metaphor of a family resemblance to describe the structure of the category game where there is no common set of properties that define a game from a non game.

Prototypical categories are useful because they more fully exploit the real world correlation of attributes and are better able to handle a continuum of information. With prototypical categorization new entries do not cause restructuring of the category system and marginal membership is permitted. Another advantage with prototypical categorization is that prototypes can change over time and are thought to contain cultural dimensions of meaning. Prototypes can be understood in two ways either as a cluster of core members of a category i.e. focal exemplars or as a representation of the conceptual core of a category. Exemplars are good examples of a particular range of something.

A well known precedent for the usefulness of exemplars is established by color categorization. Humans are capable of seeing 7.5 million discernable color differences. However approximately 11 universal focal colors reference this vast range of color. That is to say eleven different exemplars basic color terms maximize access to a very large collection.

Studies have investigated color categories in different languages and found that if a person is asked to name the range of a color for example red there is cross language and within language variability. The same person may even select different shades of red at different times. Such variability supports the notion that the assignment of word meaning is arbitrary.

However such variability often disappears when a person is asked to select a good example of a basic color term. In that case a high degree of agreement occurs. Therefore paying attention to the denotational range of a color term highlights the language specificity of the terminology. Eliciting good examples of color terms highlights what is common between languages. These findings cast doubt on the idea that all linguistic signs are arbitrary. Exemplars represent a level of categorization that is cognitively and linguistically more salient than other levels of categorization.

Although current search engines and data management systems adequately operate though oversimplified and unrealistic as they may be these systems are adept at managing discrete data. But reality as a continuum becomes difficult to describe and categorize. The use of exemplars to structure and meaning could provide a powerful advantage over current data management techniques.

The present invention is a collection management system wherein a group of objects content or organisms are categorized for maximum accessibility. That which is accessed physical or perceptual properties is user defined. Whereas current management systems utilize one or sometimes two sides of a word s character the present invention uses all three sides 1 conceptual 2 physical and 3 syntactic. The present invention utilizes the conceptual side of a word by constructing meaning instances. The physical side of a word is used to build and navigate exemplar structures. The syntactic side of a word is employed by synonym set tagging and clustering to facilitate categorization and searching.

Similar to the way we speak the present invention focuses on meaning. Everything else is largely unconscious and operates behind the scenes. The system views meaning as a relative arrangement of instances of common construction all of which are organized by prototypical categorization. Accordingly a word constitutes a category that has a core and periphery. The sense of a word is not defined by necessary or sufficient features. Therefore meaning is not binary but a criss crossing network of similarities that offers perspective beyond a point.

The perspective of the present invention is similar to a unified theory of space matter. Instead of one kind of thing moving in space atoms in space the invention views the world as different instances of one thing. Instances bring themselves into being when a common principle is applied to a collection of many different things simultaneously becoming one even as they are still different. Each instance is modeled as a structure. The one thing is a possible arrangement a configuration space of different instances.

Furthermore the present invention automatically provides strategies for searching and looking unlike prior art search mechanisms that only enable browsing where the user must figure out where to look. All attempts to find desired information within a collection are made extremely accurate and easy.

The present invention will be described with reference to the drawing figures wherein like numerals represent like elements throughout.

The collection management system of the present invention categorizes a group of objects content or organisms hereinafter referred to as objects for maximum accessibility with regard to a user defined property. Most likely the given property is a continuum of information that is hard to categorize.

The collection management system of the present invention views information conceptually as a relative arrangement of meaning instances for a given property called configuration space. A unique arrangement of meaning instances is called a region. Meaning instances may be compared to the development of perspective during the Renaissance. Pre Renaissance painting was flat. Images occupied one plane the foreground. With the Renaissance perspective was developed showing foreground and background. Much more information was delivered by this approach as does the present invention. Meaning instances deliver perspective.

It should be noted that only two aspects of the present invention require a user to input information into the collection for later retrieval or categorization 1 construction of exemplar structures and 2 categorization for onomasiological saliences. Additionally there are two different kinds of users of the collection management system 1 collection administrators who establish and maintain the collection of objects and 2 general users who access the collection for their information needs. As will be explained in detail hereinafter the collection administrator builds the exemplar structures and may input a basic level of information for the categorization of onomasiological saliences. General users only input information to be used for categorization of onomasiological saliences. Of course this does not include inputting of the access term when utilizing the collection management system to access the information managed therein. Accordingly depending upon the context in which the collection management system is being described herein the present specification may refer to a user as a collection administrator or a general user.

Instances of meaning bring themselves into being when prototype theory is applied to many different objects of a collection simultaneously becoming one property even as they are all different. Each meaning instance is constructed as an exemplar structure as shown in using the rules of prototype theory as an organizing principle. Each exemplar structure is built by first associating an exemplar to a meaning instance setting the exemplar in a specific context and further defining it by attributes. Once the exemplar structure for a meaning instance has been defined the collection management system automatically attaches sense and synonym sets to each attribute. In this way attributes with similar meaning are clustered together for increased productivity.

The exemplar structure shown in comprises an exemplar which is associated with at least one broader term at least one attribute and an object . The exemplar structure constructs meaning instances for a given property. The exemplar structure is the basic organizational unit of the present invention and is the sole vehicle for inputting information into the collection management system.

Exemplars are essentially good examples of the full range of the given property. As discussed hereinbefore since a high degree of agreement occurs when a person is asked to name a good example of something the use of exemplars organizes a collection so that the probable is experienced. Exemplars serve as portals for a large collection of information.

A broader term is used to define the context of an exemplar i.e. of which category an exemplar is a member . Since many words in English or any other language have several different meanings depending upon the context in which the word is used a broader term is used to place an exemplar in a particular context and thus establish context for a particular meaning instance.

Each exemplar structure also includes at least one attribute . Attributes are the distinguishing features of an exemplar and the dimension by which exemplars are considered similar. An attribute may be attributive adjective noun functional verb or part whole noun . An attributive attribute states the value of things. A functional attribute describes usage. A part whole attribute either names a part of something or names the whole of which something is part. Each attribute facilitates agreement on the particular meaning of what is being communicated.

For example if an exemplar is CHAIR the attributive attributes may be FOUR LEGGED CLOTH WOOD PADDED and ARMLESS. Functional attributes for the exemplar CHAIR may be SIT REST and RECLINE. A part attribute for the exemplar CHAIR may comprise BACK ARM LEG and SEAT whereas a whole attribute may comprise KITCHEN DINING ROOM RESTAURANT and BOARD OF DIRECTORS. All types of attributes are important since they provide a dimension of meaning that distinguishes one exemplar from another. All types of attributes may be utilized separately or together in accordance with the present invention.

Attributes and broader terms are indirectly related to each other. The broader term may be associated with attributes that are also shared with other broader terms or the broader term may be associated with attributes that are exclusive to that broader term . It should also be noted that two exemplar structures may have the same exemplar and broader term e.g. FEAR and EMOTION respectively whereby a first set of attributes may comprise KILLING and MURDER and a second attribute set may comprise COERCION DANGER DEATH and VIOLENT.

The object associated with the exemplar identifies the particular object for which the exemplar structure was created. For example if the collection is a collection of books the object will be a specific book. Alternatively if the collection is a plurality of drugs the object will be a specific drug.

The configuration of the exemplar structure provides flexibility and enhances the intelligent search and sorting capabilities of the system. After an exemplar is entered by a user for an object a broader term or broader term path must be selected and the attributes associated with the exemplar must be entered. It should be noted that the order of selecting a broader term and entering the attributes is not critical. It is acceptable to perform either step first. This will be explained with reference to an example shown in .

In this example a collection manager decides to organize a collection of drugs for side effects. Therefore it is assumed that exemplar structures will be constructed relative to the property SIDE EFFECTS and the objects are a group of drugs. Referring to an exemplar structure for the first object the drug BAYER ASPIRIN is shown. The exemplar structure includes an object BAYER ASPIRIN an exemplar ABDOMINAL PAIN and a plurality of attributes CRAMPING NAUSEA PRESSURE BLOATING and PAIN for the property SIDE EFFECTS . The exemplar structure also includes at least one broader term which will be explained in greater detail hereinafter.

Conceptually ABDOMINAL PAIN is a good example of a side effect of the drug BAYER ASPIRIN and the attributes CRAMPING NAUSEA PRESSURE BLOATING and PAIN provide a more detailed description of the particular instances of ABDOMINAL PAIN that result from ingesting the drug BAYER ASPIRIN. The exemplar structure provides a simple but robust configuration for capturing maximally distinct and thus maximally informative meaning instances of a property.

Referring to a second exemplar structure for the first object the drug BAYER ASPIRIN is shown. Since the second exemplar structure pertains to the same object BAYER ASPIRIN as shown in the object is shown again in as BAYER ASPIRIN for the same property SIDE EFFECTS. However the exemplar is PEPTIC ULCER and the plurality of attributes are NAUSEA PAIN INDIGESTION BLEEDING and VOMITING. Accordingly PEPTIC ULCER is another good example of a side effect of the drug BAYER ASPIRIN and the attributes NAUSEA PAIN INDIGESTION BLEEDING and VOMITING provide a more detailed description of a PEPTIC ULCER that results from ingesting the drug BAYER ASPIRIN.

Referring to a third exemplar structure for the first object the drug BAYER ASPIRIN is shown. Since the third exemplar structure pertains to the same object BAYER ASPIRIN as the object is shown again in as BAYER ASPIRIN for the same property SIDE EFFECTS. However the exemplar is DIARRHEA and the pluralities of attributes are WATERY STOOL CRAMPING BLOATING PRESSURE and LOSS OF BOWEL CONTROL. Accordingly DIARRHEA is another good example of a side effect of the drug BAYER ASPIRIN and the attributes WATERY STOOL CRAMPING BLOATING PRESSURE and LOSS OF BOWEL CONTROL provide a more detailed description of DIARRHEA that results from ingesting the drug BAYER ASPIRIN.

As each exemplar structure is created broader terms must be assigned to each exemplar to set the exemplar in a particular context. In accordance with the present invention in order to facilitate the assignment of broader terms a predefined database of broader terms may be provided. Preferably the LCSH database serves as the predefined database of broader terms. The subject heading classifications of the LCSH database embody over 100 years of historical cultural and scientific knowledge that has been systematically categorized. While constructing exemplar structures the user explores the LCSH database taxonomy for the purpose of selecting a broader term path i.e. appending contextual terms to the exemplar . Using the LCSH database as an editorial tool minimizes the possible arbitrariness of broader term assignment. Because the creation of broader terms is an abstract construction using the LCSH will systematically guide the administrator from a reliable taxonomy. Once an exemplar is entered the user accesses the predefined LCSH database to anchor the exemplar with the desired broader term path.

It should be recognized that although the specific use of the information from LCSH database is optional a database of broader terms having a reliable taxonomy for appending broader terms is not optional. Regardless of the source of the information a broader term path must be constructed from a reliable taxonomy. For convenience however this reliable taxonomy will be referred to hereinafter as the LCSH database.

Examples of excerpts from the LCSH database as it is utilized for appending exemplar structure terms are shown in . For example referring to the collection administrator inputs the exemplar ABDOMINAL PAIN in the search field resulting in information and being returned by the system from the LCSH database. The collection administrator then selects and appends from the presented information. In another example referring to the collection administrator inputs the exemplar PEPTIC ULCER in the search field resulting in information and being returned by the system from the LCSH database. In yet another example referring to the collection administrator inputs the exemplar DIARRHEA in the search field resulting in information and being returned by the system from the LCSH database. The system will continue to return information from the LCSH database of successively broader terms until a unique beginner has been reached. Unique beginners are generic concepts that serve as the broadest terms and therefore represents the most abstract category to which an exemplar is associated. In essence unique beginners are the broadest possible terms in the LCSH database. If the collection administrator does not like the choices presented by the system they may enter another term that may be more descriptive.

In order to further enhance the search and retrieval characteristics the collection management system utilizes a synonym database which comprises a plurality of synonym sets hereinafter synsets . As the user associates each attribute to an exemplar one or more synsets for each attribute ranked by usage is displayed. A synset is a cluster of like meaning words representing one sense of a word. The user chooses a single synset and therefore one sense of a word thereby reducing the arbitrariness of attribute assignment.

Once an attribute is anchored to a synset the system automatically assigns additional hyponyms to noun and verb forms and synonyms to adjective forms. For example if the attribute is CAT then the most direct hyponyms are domestic cat house cat Felis Domesticus and Felis Catus . At the next level of specificity kitty mouser alley cat to name a few are also considered hyponyms. All of these hyponyms and synonyms are attached to the attribute CAT.

Utilizing synsets and associated synonyms and hyponyms the collection management system compares concepts instead of performing a simple word match as is performed with current data management systems. An example of this aspect of the invention will be explained with reference to .

As shown in the exemplar is CANDY within the context of FOOD having the attributes of HARD SOFT BITTER SWEET and CHOCOLATE. In this example only three of the five attributes have one or more synsets these attributes are identified with an asterisk . Referring to the attribute HARD has three different synsets 1 the first synset comprising FIRM UNMALLEABLE SOLID and DENSE 2 the second synset comprising DIFFICULT and TOUGH and 3 the third synset comprising HEARTLESS PITILESS IMPENITENT and CALLOUS. The attribute BITTER is related to four synsets and the attribute SWEET is related to two synsets . When the collection administrator associates an attribute that has one or more related synsets with an exemplar the system will prompt the user to select from one of the synsets . The system may also automatically associate additional related hyponyms and synonyms to the synset not shown . In all subsequent processing the system not only associates the attribute with a particular exemplar but also associates the entire synset and its associated hyponyms and synonyms to the exemplar .

In order to assist the collection administrator to select the proper synset each synset is provided with a rank from most common to least common usage. The user can choose the most common usage a specialized use or an archaic use.

For the example shown in when the collection administrator inputs the attribute HARD into the system three synsets will appear 1 The first synset comprising FIRM UNMALLEABLE SOLID and DENSE 2 the second synset comprising DIFFICULT and TOUGH and 3 the third synset comprising HEARTLESS PITILESS IMPENITENT and CALLOUS. In the context of the broader term FOOD the most appropriate selection would be the first synset . Once this synset is selected by the collection administrator the system automatically equates all of the synonyms and hyponyms in the first synset with the attribute HARD. In this manner the invention organizes a legion of words to describe a particular exemplar thereby distinguishing the individual instances of meaning for each exemplar and increasing the hit rate of search terms.

A procedure for creating exemplar structures is shown in . In Step the collection administrator enters the desired property. The collection administrator subsequently enters a first object Step and a first exemplar associated with the object Step . The collection administrator then enters the associated broader term path which places the exemplar in the desired context Step . The broader term path is appended from the database supplied to the user which may include but is not limited to the LCSH database as shown in . The broader term path ends with the attachment of a unique beginner to the exemplar. The collection administrator then associates at least one attribute with the exemplar Step . A synset association may then be performed Step although this step is optional.

It is then determined whether or not all the exemplars have been entered Step . If not the next exemplar is entered Step and Steps are then repeated. If all of the exemplars have been entered the collection of exemplar structures is released for further processing as will be explained in further detail hereinafter Step . It should be noted that the order of the steps may be altered without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. For example Step may be performed after Step without negative effects. Additionally Step may be eliminated.

Once all of the exemplar structures for an object have been created and associated with their synsets the structures are then prototypically categorized to produce a relative arrangement of best choices. Prototypical categorization establishes core and marginal exemplars . Core exemplars i.e. prototypes share more frequently used attributes than marginal exemplars . Prototypical categorization also makes it possible to view a range of exemplars for a property outside the prototypical core. The collection management system performs categorization by determining the number of common attributes and attribute combinations which exist between all exemplars of a category. There are three different methods for prototypically categorizing exemplar structures 1 semasiological salience categorization 2 onomasiological salience categorization and 3 productivity categorization.

Semasiological salience categorization hereinafter S categorization is performed to determine which exemplars are core exemplars or prototypes and are therefore probably more relevant and which exemplars represent more marginal status and are possibly less relevant but always maintaining a categorical family resemblance . The system performs S categorization by determining the number of common attributes which exist between exemplars whereby the more attributes that an exemplar has in common with other exemplars of a category the higher the value that particular exemplar will have. Exemplars having the highest categorization will be considered prototypes and exemplars with a lower categorization will be relegated to a more marginal position.

S categorization will be explained with reference to . Collectively the exemplar structures in are good examples of the property HOUSEHOLD ITEMS. The object attached to each exemplar structure is the particular brand associated with each household item.

Once all of the double combinations of attributes are accounted for the system then determines if there are triple or greater combinations. In the present example there is one triple combination of attributes of FOUR LEGS and WOOD and METAL which is common to CHAIR and TABLE exemplars . Thus the counts for these exemplars are increased by a value of three.

It should be noted that the particular values i.e. 1 2 3 that were used for this example may be changed as desired by the user. This would permit the collection management system to be tailored to the particular needs of the user and would allow different values to be assigned to different combinations. For example since a triple combination may be extremely rare it could increase the count of the associated exemplars by a greater value such as 5.

Once all of the matchings for all attributes and combinations of attributes have been determined the values are summed for each exemplar as shown in . For example the exemplar CHAIR includes the attributes of FOUR LEGS WOOD METAL FOUR LEGS WOOD METAL WOOD FOUR LEGS METAL and FOUR LEGS METAL WOOD . These attributes or combination of attributes provide the exemplar CHAIR with a total value of 12. The same procedure is performed for each of the other exemplars in this example TABLE has a value of 15 MIRROR has a value of 4 and STEREO has a value of 1.

Once each exemplar has been valued they are then categorized according to their values. In the present example shown in . CHAIR and TABLE are categorized as significant elements of HOUSEHOLD ITEMS since they earn the highest total values MIRROR is categorized less significantly and STEREO is valued as least representative. CHAIR and TABLE in this example are considered to be core exemplars otherwise known as prototypes STEREO would be considered to be a marginal exemplar and MIRROR would be considered to be somewhere in between. Each exemplar value is also associated with the exemplar for future searching as will be explained in detail hereinafter.

The collection management system as an alternative also displays those attributes which contribute to prototype categorization from the full range of attributes. Regarding the example of the user will understand that the prototypical instances of FURNITURE have four legs wood and metal. This can be shown automatically or at the request of the user.

Prototypicality is recursive in that the attributes that determine what is common among exemplars and thereby determining category membership these same attributes are more often then not prototype categories themselves. Just as exemplar structures are organized by prototype categories so might attributes.

There are significant benefits to performing a search on a collection which has been S categorized in accordance with the present invention. First since each exemplar has been categorized those exemplars having the highest categorization are displayed at the center of a context while lesser categorized exemplars extend out from the middle. Unlike searching a database where information is equally available with endless lists of results S categorization categorizes information so everything is accessible but not equally available i.e. not all information has equal status . The conceptual core of a concept becomes the focal designation. In a seemingly diverse set of exemplars the user is able to see similarity via the matching of attributes.

This type of information makes accessibility to a collection of objects highly efficient since a focal designation is automatically established for each category. The user can see how an exemplar instantiates a prototype and which are marginal members of a category. Where interdependence of exemplar structures is the distinguishing feature of the present invention s strategy of access prototypes may be thought of as competitive best choices . The user sees a set of choices in which each exemplar structure is competing for the most representative or best position. Such information is largely neglected by current data management systems.

A collection administrator can use information regarding exemplar structures to evaluate a collection by asking the following questions Do exemplar structures reflect planned characteristics of a collection Which attributes of a category seem underrepresented Which attributes of a prototype contribute most Are these attributes reflected in other prototype categories This information and more makes all attempts to adjust and fine tune a collection extremely accurate and easy.

Moreover a collection constructed in such a manner is flexible in that as objects are added to the collection and with them additional exemplar structures the status of membership may change. For example if it becomes fashionable for mirrors to be constructed of four legs metal and wood and thus become self standing prototypicality will automatically change. In order to effect this change S categorization of the collection must be re performed when new objects are added.

As a second more general example if the collection being managed were news items Richard Cheney would have been a prototypical member of a military category from 1989 to 1993. During this time he was Secretary of Defense and involved with Operation Just Cause and Operation Desert Storm. Being a subject in the news that is being an instance of a news item Cheney would have dropped back to a less dominant categorical position between 1994 and 2001 and moved back into a prototypical position with regard to the military as Vice President for his role in fighting terrorism. This ability to change with the times and over time is extremely valuable aspect of the present invention.

The second method of categorization is a method for determining onomasiological salience. This method of categorization identifies which exemplars are basic level terms . Basic level terms are special exemplars that are selected with greater frequency when considering all of the exemplars with which a certain attribute is associated. In essence onomasiological salience is a linguistic method that points to another kind of best choice . Onomasiological salience categorization hereinafter O categorization is a method whereby the user determines the exemplar out of a plurality of exemplars that are associated with an attribute in a context which the user believes is most representative of that particular attribute .

As will be described in further detail hereinafter with reference to searching the choices made by users are tracked and the O categorization of exemplars is performed and updated in accordance with those choices. Accordingly referring back to the example in if it becomes very fashionable to attach highly ornamental legs to one s bed O categorization would most likely change over time and TABLE would be displaced by BED as a basic level term. In this manner one can observe that cultural or scientific knowledge has a direct influence on O categorization of exemplars. This influence makes searching a categorized collection very powerful and highly efficient.

Using this selection process a categorization order is established for each set of exemplars which are related by a common attribute for a given context. As exemplars are identified as basic level terms the conceptual side of a word meaning and therefore the relative arrangement of meaning structures for a collection becomes cognitively and linguistically more salient. Although basic level terms resulting from O categorization in many cases are the same core members of a category as prototypes resulting from S categorization this is not always the case. Semasiological and onomasiological saliences are not mirror images in that prototypes may not necessarily be basic level terms. Each type of categorization provides a different perspective of a best choice . Both of these best choices will be presented to a user. Therefore exclusive concern with one method of prototypical categorization limits competition among exemplars for best choice positioning and therefore leads to an impoverished view of meaning instances.

The third categorization process is a categorization for productivity hereinafter P categorization . P categorization is a method whereby the system retrieves all exemplars and associated attributes associated with a broader term and all objects associated with these structures . The system counts the number of times an attribute is present. The results of P categorization are expressed as a ratio of attribute usage over the number of objects associated with the category. P categorization shows how much contribution an attribute makes in defining a category. Establishing P categorization for attributes assists the general user by 1 determining how a relative arrangement of meaning instances become prototypical and 2 counting the number of objects attached to a particular meaning. P categorization provides more information about competitive best choices so the general user can make his or her best choice .

Referring to an example of the calculation of the productivity of attributes i.e. P categorization is shown. This example assumes that the objects are a plurality of books Book 1 Book 2 and Book 3 and the property is the subject of the book. Productivity of attributes is calculated over the number of objects associated with a given broader term. For the broader term RODENT the exemplars are retrieved. These exemplars include PORCUPINE MICE and RABBITS. For each exemplar term representing N dimensions of meaning all instances of the exemplar are then retrieved ex1 ex2 ex3 ex4 ex5 ex6 and ex7 . For each exemplar representing one meaning instance the object i.e. the book associated with each exemplar is retrieved. Once the number of objects associated with the broader term is determined that number of objects becomes the denominator when calculating productivity. In this example there are five books and seven exemplars. Two books in this example have two exemplars that are associated with the broader term RODENT. The system then retrieves all of the attributes a b c and d and for each attribute counts the number of times it is used to define an exemplar within the broader term RODENT. The productivity for an attribute is viewed as a ratio. Preferably this is viewed by the user by placing the mouse directly over the attribute although this may be displayed in a different format. The productivity count for the example of is shown in .

It is important to note that when counting attributes for particular exemplars ex1 ex2 . . . ex7 within the broader term RODENT the only exemplars that are retrieved are the exemplars which have the broader term RODENT in their exemplar structure. For example if FASTENER was the broader term and NAILS SCREWS and BOLTS were exemplars the system ensures that when getting exemplars anchored to NAILS it obtains exemplars that had FASTENER as a broader term and not SKIN in the exemplar structure. This is automatic. The rules that make the structures take care of this.

Conceptually a relative arrangement of meaning instances is always three dimensional. An instance may be thought of as one layer of meaning whereby dimension is established by associating like meaning instances together. Since each meaning instance is associated with an exemplar structure the relative arrangement of identical exemplars with associated contexts and attributes make a 3 dimensional shape of meaning as shown in . Accordingly the collection management s conceptual model of meaning instances and configuration space eliminates redundancy. Common construction of different instances make one thing.

In summary after a collection administrator constructs all exemplar structures for an object the structures are released to configuration space for prototypical categorization processing. The configuration space is a complex adaptive collection whereby any additions or changes to exemplar structures by a collection administrator will automatically adjust the relative arrangements of meaning instances after prototypical categorization is performed.

Prototypical categorization is applied to a relative arrangement of exemplar structures . Each category i.e. all exemplar structures related to a broader term are organized i.e. shaped by S categorization to reduce the limitless variation of exemplar structures into manageable portions. For example all exemplar structures associated with the broader term PAIN are categorized prototypically. In addition P categorization is performed by determining productivity values which are assigned to each attribute . O categorization is begun by the collection administrator and continued by the general user during navigation.

An optional function for collapsing categories is utilized when collections are small. If a broader term is associated with fewer than three different exemplar structures S categorization has little to work with. Therefore the collection administrator may set a minimum requirement for the number of exemplar structures required to populate a category all exemplar structures related to a broader term .

Since exemplar structures include multiple broader terms as shown in the collection administrator must select an appropriate context to categorize. The collection administrator determines the appropriate context by setting a level of category membership for the collection relative to the objects in it. The collection management system automatically adapts to this setting as the collection changes. Referred to as a collapsing function the collection management system adjusts levels of category membership for uniformity.

For example if the collapsing function is set limited to N members in a category where N 2 all categories must have at least three members. Therefore categories of two or less collapse. The collection administrator determines this number from the size and characteristics of a collection. However it should be understood that the number may be greater or lesser depending upon the decision made by the collection administrator.

Once all of the exemplar structures have been created and prototypically categorized the collection is released for use by a general user to search the collection and retrieve information as desired. As aforementioned prototypical categorization provides a powerful tool for presenting to the general user best choices which are most likely the results desired by the general user. The unique structure categorization and relative arrangement of objects in a collection facilitates easier and more efficient searching and looking by the user and provides results which have perspective. This advantage over present data management systems is shown with reference to which illustrate some of the automatic strategies of searching that are available to the general user while accessing a collection.

Referring to the broader term view includes a broader term and a plurality of associated exemplars. At this level the attributes associated with the exemplars are not shown. Conceptually a broader term view shows an access term insofar as it is a single category a relative arrangement of exemplar structures from a broader term perspective . As will be explained in further detail hereinafter a broader term view is the view which is presented to the general user when the access term matches on a broader term returning a relative arrangement of meaning instances. Associated exemplars of the broader term category are graphically designed to show prototypical status established by S categorization. As well results from O categorization are graphically identified.

Referring to the exemplar view displays the full exemplar structure including a focal broader term focal exemplar the associated object and all of the attributes associated with the exemplar. Other broader terms associated with the exemplar are included which indicates polysemy multiple contexts . Related exemplars other members of the focal broader term are shown. Conceptually an exemplar view presents an access term insofar as it constitutes one or more categories. This view depicts a relative arrangement of exemplar structures from an exemplar perspective. Values for S categorization O categorization and P categorization are graphically designed to indicate best choices. The exemplar view is presented to the general user when the access term matches on an exemplar and a region in configuration space is returned.

Referring to the attribute view includes a broader term one attribute and all of the exemplars associated with that attribute for the selected broader term. Conceptually an attribute view shows an access term as a distinguishing feature of many meaning instances a relative arrangement of exemplar structures related to an attribute and broader term . The attribute view is presented to the user when the access term matches on an attribute or when an attribute is selected for further exploration from the exemplar view .

It should be noted that when an access term is input by a general user the system attempts to match the access term first to a broader term. If a broader term correctly matches the access term the broader term view shown in is presented. If the access term does not match a broader term the system determines whether the access term matches an exemplar. If so the exemplar view shown in is presented to the general user. If not the attribute view as shown in is presented to the user. If the access term input by the general user does not match a broader term exemplar or attribute the system will return a message to the general user indicating that no match has been found and that the general user should enter another access term.

Referring to a method for navigating meaning instances a collection in accordance with the present invention is shown. This method offers an automatic strategy for looking at meaning instances and assumes that the configuration space has been created. It also assumes that the configuration space has been prototypically categorized for semasiological salience S categorization ononasiological salience O categorization and productivity P categorization . A desired access term a point is entered by the general user and the collection management system determines the regions whose points correspond to a collection of meaning instances associated with the access term within the property space Step . It does this by matching the access term to broader terms exemplars or attributes within the collection. The system first attempts to match the access term with a broader term and then if unsuccessful to an exemplar and finally with an attribute. Depending upon the region of configuration space which matches the access term the views shown in will be presented to the user. Accordingly once the configuration space is arranged Step and the access term matched on the broader term a broader term view will be presented to the user Step . The user may then navigate the meaning instances of the view i.e. one of the exemplars Step . The configuration space will then be rearranged back to Step and the user may continue to navigate accordingly.

If the access term does not match a broader term but matches an exemplar the exemplar view is displayed Step . From there the user may navigate meaning instances Step select an attribute Step or select an object Step . Selection of an attribute Step displays the attribute view to the general user Step . From there the user may navigate meaning instances Step and may optionally invoke O categorization Step . It should be noted that the user may toggle between views as desired by selecting a desired attribute exemplar or broader term.

Briefly O categorization is performed when the system displays the selected meaning instance and all of the exemplars associated with that meaning instance. The user then selects the exemplar which the user believes is most representative of that attribute. The system stores this selection and uses this selection in performing O categorization as was herein described with reference to .

There are several benefits to the collection management system of the present invention that provide significant advantages over prior art data management systems. First although an access term of the present invention is entered as a point of reference and appears similar to prior art search terms the response to the input of an access term is significantly different from prior art search terms. Unlike the prior art where word match is the response to a search term an access term returns a configuration of three dimensional meaning instances. Accordingly the access term is entered as a word or phrase but a relative arrangement of three dimensional meaning instances provides a result with perspective.

Second since the rules that govern the creation of exemplar structures make everything the rules of prototype theory make it possible to see the collections best choices so the user can make his her best choice accurately and efficiently.

Third the present invention automatically provides strategies for searching and looking unlike prior art search mechanisms that only enable browsing where the user must figure out where to look. Two automatic strategies of searching guide the user from 1 A view when an access term represents a category that is when the user sees the access term as a context itself . This is something like an aerial view of a configuration space in that you can t yet see the attributes but you can see various plots in the region of meaning instances and 2 When a term constitutes a category or categories whereby the user sees meaning instances in different contexts and how important the instances are relative to the entire category or for a specific entity. Additionally the attributes that determine best choice or probable status are available to preview.

Finally two perspectives are presented from the collection management system s automatic strategies for looking at meaning instances 1 the user sees similarity in diversity e.g. TABLE and STEREO are different yet similar as they share common attributes and 2 the user sees the full referential range of a category. Therefore not only are prototypical subjects CHAIR and TABLE readily accessible but the full range of a topic is accessible by having the marginal exemplars MIRROR and STEREO available. The zebras of a topic are relegated to marginal category status but without them the range of meaning would be impoverished.

It should be noted that the present invention may be implemented using a PC or any type of electronic system not shown which includes a processor with associated memory. Additionally the collection manager the general user and the collection management system need not be co located. Access to the system by the collection manager or the general user may be facilitated by the use of the Internet a LAN or a WAN or any other type of remote communication means.

While the present invention has been described in terms of the preferred embodiment other variations which are within the scope of the invention as outlined in the claims below will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

