---

title: System and method for detecting a specific cognitive-emotional state in a subject
abstract: A system and method is disclosed which detects a specific cognitive-emotional mental state (e.g., passion) in a subject. The system and method utilizes different Internal Personalized Explorer (IPE) stimuli subliminally exposed to the subject on a visual display. Following exposure, the subject performs a target-specific cognitive task and a related behavior (e.g., deciding whether a briefly displayed string of letters is a word or not, and pressing a button to indicate the decision). The decision reaction lime for the behavior is recorded in a computer database. The reaction times are interpreted quantitatively to detect the relative intensity of the specific cognitive-emotional mental state in the subject. A reaction time for a specific individual IPE that is shorter than the mean reaction time for an IPE that does not evoke the emotional state indicates that the specific individual IPE did evoke the emotional state in the subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08535060&OS=08535060&RS=08535060
owner: Brain & Science LLC
number: 08535060
owner_city: Carson City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070827
---
This application claims the benefit of prior filed U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 823 531 filed Aug. 25 2006 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is in the field of behavioral diagnostic tools. Specifically the present invention relates to detecting a specific emotional state in a subject. More specifically the present invention relates to the detection of subjective stimuli that evoke the specific emotion e.g. passion and the use of the stimuli to improve behavioral performance of a cognitive task.

Intense inner cognitive emotional states such as love passion and goal directed motivation have been the source for some of the greatest achievements of mankind throughout the ages. The recent neuroscientific localization of passion within subcortico cortical reward motivation cognitive and emotion systems in the human brain supports the hypothesis that passion is a goal directed drive with predictable facilitation effects on cognitive behavior rather than a pure and simple emotion.

Many scales questionnaires or tests aim at evaluating a passionate mental state in a conscious way but none of the existing tools does so in an objective manner. In the existing methods the test subject is typically asked or induced to express verbally what his mental state is. The test subject s behaviors or responses to questions are unavoidably influenced by multiple external and internal factors often obscuring the subject s true inner mental state or preventing the subject from expressing it.

What is needed is a method and system of providing a cognitive non invasive objective and fast test which allows determining quantitatively the inner cognitive emotional state of participants on a sound neuroscientific basis. Also what is needed is a behavioral diagnostic tool that avoids the subjectivity inherent in the existing methods for evaluating cognitive emotional states.

This invention relates to a behavioral method and system that detects specific cognitive emotional states such as passion preference and other mental states involving the subcortico cortical reward motivation cognitive and emotion systems in the human brain. An essential feature of the invention is the subliminal Internal Personalized Explorer IPE injector which presents to the test subjects an Internal Personalized Explorer a unique type of subliminal stimulus. It is believed that the present invention is the first practical application of the IPE technology platform. Further the present invention is an un blinded behavioral method and system for detecting a specific cognitive emotional mental state in a subject.

The method and system of the present invention is based on neuroscientific evidence that demonstrates that shorter reaction times on a cognitive task that follows a particular subliminal stimulus are a reliable indicator of stronger intensity in the subject s mind of a passionate mental state with regard to that subliminal stimulus in comparison to the intensity of passion preference toward another subliminal stimulus. It does so by relying on correlations between the inner mental state being detected and a measurable behavior that is cognitively unrelated to that mental state.

From the subject s perspective the method and system is experienced as a computer based test. Based on the results of the test the method and system objectively detects the contemporaneous existence of a specific cognitive emotional mental state in the mind of the subject. For purposes of this disclosure the term cognitive emotional state or cognitive emotional mental state means any mental state that involves both cognitive and emotional centers regions systems or functions of the human brain. Examples of cognitive emotional states include love hate jealousy preference passion goal directed motivation and even indifference.

The method and system detects the cognitive emotional state objectively in that the method and system relies on objective measurements of a cognitive behavior and does not rely on any subjective information or analysis. The method and system detects the contemporaneous existence of a specific mental state meaning that it detects a mental state that is existing in the subject s mind during the time when the test is conducted. The test is brief typically lasting approximately 10 minutes. The test is non invasive meaning that no apparatus is connected or attached to the subject s body.

An essential feature of the method and system is that the subject is iteratively required to perform a meaningful target specific cognitive task after being exposed to a subliminal stimulus. The subliminal stimulus used in the method and system is called an Internal Personalized Explorer or IPE.

The IPE stimulus is typically a word or an image appearing on a visual display but is not limited to these types of sensory input. The IPE stimulus is designed to match with the specific cognitive emotional state sought to be detected in a subject. By matching it is meant that there is a correspondence between the content or meaning of a particular IPE and the specific cognitive emotional state that is the focus of the test.

The subliminal IPE stimulus differs from the standard subliminal stimulus that is commonly known in commercial advertising. In the present invention the subliminal presentation of the IPE stimulus is not used to create an association with the target stimuli. It is not intended to be used with the aim to advertise any product or to influence consumer behavior but can be used to assess behavior. The aim of the subliminal IPE presentation is to detect and explore an existing internal mental state if it is present at the time in the subject.

The method and system is un blinded meaning that informing the subject prior to the test that subliminal stimuli will be used and informing the subject that the purpose of the test is to detect a specific cognitive emotional state has no impact on the results obtained by the method and system. The method and system determines whether a specific cognitive emotional state is present or not regardless of whether the subject is informed about the use of subliminal stimuli prior to being tested.

The method and system is behavioral meaning that what is measured is a behavior which the subject performs. The method and system requires the subject to perform a behavior. In a preferred embodiment the behavior was pressing a key on a keyboard of a computer in response to a target specific cognitive decision task deciding whether a string of letters shown on a visual display the target stimuli is a word or not. What was measured was the reaction time of the behavior meaning the elapsed time between presenting the target stimulus to the subject and the subjects execution of the behavior indicating the subjects decision.

In the context of this disclosure the target is the subject matter of the cognitive decision task that the subject is required to perform. The target is also referred to as the target stimulus. Each decision about an individual target is independent. The content or meaning of the target may or may not have a conceptual association with the IPE that precedes it in the course of the test. It is important that the task that the subject has to perform related to the target is cognitively relevant and meaningful for the participant subject. This helps to ensure that the subject is motivated and will make an effort to complete the required decision task as quickly as possible throughout the test.

Conducting the test involves repeating a cycle of successive steps each cycle including exposing the subject to a subliminal IPE stimulus followed by a mask or masking period to ensure the subliminal nature of the IPE stimulus. The subject is then required to perform the cognitive task. The subject s reaction time is recorded i.e. the elapsed time between the onset of the target stimulus presentation and the completion of the behavior indicating the subject s decision on the cognitive task. For each of the two or more IPEs used as stimuli in the test the mean reaction time is calculated for the subject s responses that followed exposure to that IPE. Then the mean reaction times for the individual IPEs are compared to each other.

Experiments using the method and system have demonstrated that shorter reaction times on the cognitive task reliably indicate stronger intensity in the subject s mind of a cognitive emotional state that matches with the subliminal IPE stimulus given prior to the cognitive task target. See Addenda A and B.

Because the test in which the subject participates involves no self reporting by the subject about any mental state and relies instead on measuring a behavior that is not associated with the emotional content if any of the subliminal stimulus the method and system avoids subjective artifacts in measured results.

An object of the invention is to provide a cognitive non invasive objective and fast test which allows determining quantitatively the inner cognitive emotional state of participants on a sound neuroscientific basis.

Another object of the invention is to provide a method and system that associates participants answers e.g. movement times reaction times accuracy with subliminal stimulus presentations in the context of the study of the internal mental state of participants. This internal mental state can be emotional e.g. love hate jealousy preference passion etc. and can also be neutral in comparison with an intense cognitive emotional internal mental state.

Another object of the invention is to enable the objective evaluation of the internal mental state of participants for it demonstrates at the unconscious level if the subject is in a specific internal mental state or not.

Another object of the invention is to provide a method and system in which the subjects cannot choose or guide their responses during the test. In a feature of the present invention the subjects are either in a specific internal mental state for something someone or they are not. The presence of the specific internal mental state is demonstrated by objective measurement of a cognitive behavior unrelated to the specific mental state being detected. In other words the method and system reads the mind emotion of the subject with respect to something or someone.

The present invention is a behavioral method that that operates on a computer system and detects a specific cognitive emotional state in a subject. Accordingly this behavioral method allows testing a subject for the presence and intensity of a preference or passion for a person an activity a product or other entity in comparison to the subject s preference or passion for another entity of the same nature. For purposes of this disclosure the subject is sometimes referred to as the participant in the test. As shown in the behavioral method involves test preparation conducting test on the subject and using the system analyzing test data and outputting test results .

As part of the test preparation prior to conducting the test the administrator of the test defines the question that will be answered by the test results. Additionally the test administrator selects at least two different Internal Personalized Explorer IPE stimuli to be used in the test which are the subliminal IPE stimuli that will be used in the test . For example the question can be whether the subject has an emotional preference for one of two consumer products and the corresponding IPE stimuli can be images or names of the two products. In another example the question can be what is the subject s favorite recreational activity at this time and the corresponding IPE stimuli can be the names of two or more different activities. In another example the question can be does the subject have an intense romantic love for a particular person and the IPE stimuli can be the name of that person and the name of a neutral acquaintance of the subject. In another example an additional IPE stimulus can be a given name or word that has no particular significance to the subject. An IPE stimulus is preferably presented to the subject via a visual display of the computer system . The IPE stimulus is presented on the visual display as a subliminal display i.e. the individual IPE stimulus is presented on the visual display for a time duration that is below the threshold of conscious perception of the stimulus and above the time duration for unconscious perception of the stimulus by the subject.

Once the IPE stimuli to be used in the test are defined the mask s to be used in the test are defined. The purpose of the mask is to ensure the subliminal character of the presentation of the IPE stimulus and the subject s retention of the subliminal memory of the IPE stimulus . To accomplish this purpose it is important that the mask be as meaningless a memory event stimulus to the subject as possible to avoid competition with and to enhance retention of the subliminal IPE stimulus memory. The mask is presented in the masking step for a brief non subliminal time duration of about 125 msec to 200 msec. In the preferred embodiment the non subliminal time duration was about 150 msec. The mask is designed to fill the field of the visual display and cover the field that was occupied immediately prior to the mask by the IPE stimulus . For example in the case where the IPE stimulus is a word or a string of letters the mask can be a string of text characters that is not a word or the mask can be a series of the character also referred to in this disclosure as the pound sign. In a preferred embodiment the mask is shown on the screen of the visual display by text characters that are a size and a font similar to that of the preceding IPE stimulus.

In addition to the IPE stimuli and the mask also as part of preparing the test the targets to be presented during the test as the subject matter of the cognitive task are prepared. In one embodiment the targets were strings of letters and the cognitive task was to decide whether the target is a word or is not a word. In other embodiments of the invention the target stimuli may be images video clips smells sounds or any other type of stimulus that acts on the cognitive regions of the human brain. The IPE stimuli the masks and the targets to be employed in the test are embedded in the computer code that is used to administer the test to the subject. illustrates the administration of the test in an example timeline. The IPEs can be selected from the classes of IPEs for the subject which consist of favored IPEs neutral IPEs and indifferent IPEs.

The test consists of a series of iterations or cycles wherein in each cycle an IPE is subliminally presented and a cognitive recognition and behavioral task is performed. The test itself comprises the step of exposing the subject to a visual display of an individual IPE stimulus for a subliminal time duration . The exposing step can comprise the exposing of the individual IPE stimulus on the visual display for a time duration that is about 20 msec to 30 msec. In the preferred embodiment illustrated the exposing of the individual IPE stimulus on the visual display was for a duration of about 26 msec.

In the preferred embodiment illustrated the visual display is the video output device of a computer system . Immediately following the exposing step a masking step of the visual display is performed. The visual display presents the mask for a brief non subliminal time duration. Following the masking step the subject is presented with a meaningful target specific visual cognitive recognition task . In the preferred embodiment the cognitive task was a visual discrimination task involving the target stimulus presented on the visual display . Specifically the cognitive task presented on the visual display was deciding whether a string of letters displayed for a short time was a word or not.

After the presentation of the visual cognitive recognition task the visual display is blanked in a blanking step for a randomly varied response period having at least a response period duration sufficient to complete the behavior required of the visual cognitive recognition task . The related behavior was to press a button to indicate the decision of the subject resulting from the cognitive task . In the preferred embodiment the related behavior was the subject using an index finger to press a first button to indicate a YES decision and a second button to indicate a NO decision. While the cognitive task and the related behavior were being performed the visual display presented a blank or a solid colored screen to the subject for a randomly varied response period . The randomly varied response period has a response period duration between about 0.5 sec and 8 sec.

A record is made in the database of the subject s reaction time to complete the behavior . The reaction time is recorded via an input device of the computer system in a database on the computer system . These steps constitute one iteration or cycle of the test . Cycles are repeated beginning with the exposing step a sufficient number of times with different individual IPE stimuli to generate a database sufficient to determine a mean reaction time of the subject relative to each of the individual IPE stimuli used and to create a data set of reaction times relative to specific IPE and target stimuli. An analytical interpretive process runs on the computer system interprets the reaction time data of the data set to detect the relative intensity of the specific cognitive emotional mental state in the subject relative to the individual IPEs. The interpretive process produces a result that reflects the specific cognitive emotional state sought to be detected in the subject and produces an output of the result in a written or a graphical form.

In another embodiment using the computer system the subliminal IPE image injector may inject subliminal images on a computer screen for the primary purpose of enhancing the performance of the worker operating the computer. In such an embodiment in an initialization step images which invoke passion on the part of a particular user determined through a questionnaire or by providing an input which enables the user to upload user selected images that invoke passion within him are stored. In an IPE injection step these images are displayed to the user on a computer screen for an appropriate duration e.g. 26 msec and cycling according to empirical studies show improve a typical user s performance. In an advantage a method and system of cognitive non invasive objective and fast testing is provided which allows determining quantitatively the inner cognitive emotional state of participants on a sound neuroscientific basis.

In another advantage a behavioral diagnostic tool is provided that avoids the subjectivity inherent in the existing methods for evaluating cognitive emotional states.

In another advantage the method and system provides a cognitive non invasive objective and fast test which allows determining quantitatively the inner cognitive emotional state of participants on a sound neuroscientific basis.

In another advantage the method and system associates participants answers e.g. movement times reaction times accuracy with subliminal stimulus presentations in the context of the study of the internal mental state of participants.

In another advantage the method and system enables the objective evaluation of the internal mental state of participants for it demonstrates at the unconscious level if the subject is in a specific internal mental state or not.

In another advantage a method and system is provided in which the subjects cannot choose or guide their responses during the test.

Multiple variations and modifications are possible in the embodiments of the invention described here. Although certain illustrative embodiments of the invention have been shown and described here a wide range of modifications changes and substitutions is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure. While the above description and the attached addenda which is herein incorporated by reference contain many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention but rather as exemplifications of one or another preferred embodiment thereof. In some instances some features of the present invention may be employed without a corresponding use of the other features. Accordingly it is appropriate that the foregoing description be construed broadly and understood as being given by way of illustration and example only the spirit and scope of the invention being limited only by the claims which ultimately issue in this application.

