---

title: Method and apparatus for effecting stable operation of resonant tunneling diodes
abstract: A circuit includes a resonant tunneling device having first and second terminals, and biased to exhibit a negative resistance between the terminals, the terminals being coupled at spaced locations to a further section made of a material which has a plasma resonance tuned to a selected frequency. A different circuit includes a resonant tunneling structure with plural layers, including an outer layer coupled to a further layer made of a material which has a plasma resonance tuned to a selected frequency. Two circuit sections are respectively coupled to the resonant tunneling structure at spaced locations thereon. A bias is applied across the tunneling structure and further layer, and causes the tunneling structure to exhibit a negative resistance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07839226&OS=07839226&RS=07839226
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 07839226
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070717
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 807 699 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR EFFECTING STABLE OPERATION OF RESONANT TUNNELING DIODES filed Jul. 18 2006.

This invention was made with government support under contract number F33615 99 C 1513. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates in general to resonant tunneling diodes and more particularly to techniques for effecting stable and efficient operation of resonant tunneling diodes.

Resonant tunneling diodes RTDs exhibit the highest oscillation frequency of any known semiconductor device for example in excess of 720 GHz. Further the voltage current characteristic of an RTD has an operating region in which the RTD effectively exhibits a negative resistance characteristic. In this regard a positive resistance consumes power and thus will attenuate an electrical signal. Conversely a negative resistance essentially represents gain and is useful in implementing circuits such as an oscillator or an amplifier.

A problem is that when an RTD is biased to operate at a selected frequency it usually has a tendency to oscillate at some other undesired frequency for example due to a parasitic characteristic such as the inductance in a lead extending to a battery that powers the circuit. One known solution to this instability is to couple a resistor in parallel with the RTD. This approach provides increased stability at frequencies other than the operating frequency. However at the operating frequency the positive resistance of the external resistor tends to counteract the negative resistance of the RTD and thus also tends to counteract the gain characteristic of the RTD. Consequently the use of an external resistor in this manner is counterproductive to the goal of efficiently exploiting the gain characteristic of the RTD.

A different known approach for stabilizing an RTD is to couple the two conductors at one end of a transmission line to opposite ends of the RTD and to couple an inductive capacitive LC resonant circuit to the other end of the transmission line. However for many applications the use of a transmission line is cumbersome and impractical. This can be true even when the transmission line is implemented as part of the integrated circuit that contains the RTD.

Another consideration is that the output impedance of an RTD drops to a very low value at high operational frequencies. Also some applications require a power handling capacity which is in excess of the power handling capacity of a single RTD. It is possible to couple several RTDs in series in order to obtain a larger overall impedance and a larger overall power handling capacity. However this presents an even greater potential problem for direct current DC instability if the DC bias across the entire string is not divided relatively uniformly among the individual RTDs. A respective resistor can be coupled in parallel with each RTD in the string in the manner discussed above. These resistors will provide increased stability and ensure that the DC bias is uniformly allocated among the individual RTDs. However as also discussed above the positive resistance of each external resistor will at least partially counteract the negative resistance and associated gain of each RTD at the intended operational frequency and will thus tend to undermine efforts to optimally and efficiently harness the gain characteristic.

As another alternative and as noted above it would theoretically be possible to couple each RTD in the string to a respective different transmission line with a respective resonant circuit. However where there are several RTDs coupled in series it is highly impractical to provide a separate transmission line and resonant circuit for each RTD.

From the foregoing it may be appreciated that a need has arisen for a method and apparatus for efficiently harnessing the gain which is inherent in a resonant tunneling device while avoiding undesired instability.

One form of the invention involves providing a resonant tunneling device having first and second terminals biasing the resonant tunneling device for operation in a mode which exhibits a negative resistance between the first and second terminals coupling the first and second terminals to spaced locations on a further section which is made of a material having a plasma resonance and tuning the plasma resonance of the material to a selected frequency.

A different form of the invention involves providing a resonant tunneling structure having plural layers including first and second outer layers electrically coupling to the first outer layer a further layer which extends parallel to the first outer layer selecting for the further layer a material which has a plasma resonance tuning the plasma resonance of the material of the further layer to a selected frequency applying a bias between a side of the further layer remote from the first outer layer and a side of the second outer layer remote from the first outer layer the resonant tunneling structure responding to the bias by exhibiting a negative resistance between the first and second outer layers and coupling first and second circuit sections to the resonant tunneling structure at respective spaced first and second locations thereon.

An electrically conductive layer is provided on the top surface of the substrate . In the disclosed embodiment the conductive layer is a doped semiconductor material and in particular is indium gallium arsenide InGaAs which is doped to make it an n type semiconductor material. An electrically conductive contact is provided on top of the conductive layer near one side thereof. In the disclosed embodiment the contact is made from gold.

Near the opposite side of the conductive layer a resonant tunneling diode RTD is formed on top of the conductive layer . The RTD has an internal configuration of a type which is known in the art. Therefore this internal configuration is described here only briefly in order to facilitate an understanding of the present invention. In particular the internal structure of the RTD includes a stack of five horizontally extending layers . The outer layers and are each electrically conductive layers in the form of a doped semiconductor material. In the disclosed embodiment this material is InGaAs which has been doped to make it an n type semiconductor material. The center layer is also made of InGaAs but is not doped and is thus not electrically conductive. The layers and are each made of aluminum arsenide AlAs . The three inner layers are thus electrically insulating layers which provide isolation except to the extent that carriers can tunnel through them between the outer layers and in a known manner.

The RTD is disposed within an annular sleeve made of a semiconductor material which in the disclosed embodiment is doped InGaAs. The layers of the RTD each have a peripheral edge which along its entire circumference engages the inner surface of the sleeve . The sleeve has a radial thickness which is indicated by reference numeral .

An electrical contact is provided on the top surface of the outer layer and in the disclosed embodiment is made of gold. The contacts and are each coupled to a circuit which is shown diagrammatically at . In the disclosed embodiment the circuit is an integral part of the integrated circuit but the circuit could alternatively be physically separate from the integrated circuit.

Persons skilled in the art will understand that the configuration shown in is tuned by its physical structure to a single selected operational frequency. Nevertheless this configuration is advantageous for many applications. For example it is advantageous for an application in which an oscillator which must produce a single predetermined frequency or for an application in which a signal at a specific predetermined frequency needs to be amplified.

The circuit of includes structure which biases the RTD for operation in its negative resistance region . Thus with reference to the circuit and the RTD can implement an oscillator or amplifier as discussed later. An RTD is of particular interest for implementing an oscillator because RTDs have the highest oscillation frequency of any known semiconductor device typically on the order of approximately 720 GHz.

However pre existing attempts to use an RTD to implement an oscillator or amplifier have been unsuccessful or impractical. This is due in part to the fact that when an RTD is biased to operate at a selected frequency it can tend to oscillate at some other undesired frequency for example due to factors such as the parasitic inductance of a wire coupling the circuit to a battery. Prior attempts to deal with this problem have been ineffective or impractical. As one example it is possible to provide a resistor in parallel with the RTD. However while this can help to avoid instability and or oscillation at frequencies other than the operating frequency the positive resistance is also effective at the operating frequency and tends to counteract the negative resistance characteristic of the RTD . Thus at the operating frequency the external positive resistance effectively makes it harder to exploit the RTD gain characteristic which is of interest.

An alternative known approach is to couple the conductors at one end of a transmission line to the outer layers of an RTD and to couple a capacitance and an inductance to the other end of the transmission line. However even where such a transmission line can be implemented in the same integrated circuit as the RTD provision of the transmission line in the integrated circuit is cumbersome at best and impractical for certain applications.

The embodiment of takes an approach which is different from these known techniques. In particular the embodiment of includes the above mentioned sleeve of doped semiconductor material which facilitates efficient and stable operation of the RTD . In this regard the doped semiconductor material of the sleeve has what is commonly known in the art as a plasma frequency or plasma resonance. On the one hand carriers within the sleeve are subject to a degree of inertia due to their mass and this resists their movement in a manner which is analogous to the manner in which an inductor will resist the flow of an alternating current through it. The other characteristic underlying plasma resonance is a dielectric relaxation characteristic where the polarity of charges within the semiconductor material of the sleeve tends to resist movement of a charge cloud within the material. This is somewhat analogous to the manner in which a capacitor responds to an alternating current signal.

To the extent that these two characteristics of plasma resonance are respectively analogous to an inductor and a capacitor it will be recognized that much like an LC circuit they have a resonant frequency. In particular this resonant frequency is the plasma frequency at which plasma resonance occurs. The level of doping within the semiconductor material of the sleeve is selected to determine the resonant frequency and in particular to select this resonant frequency to be the same as the desired operational frequency of the RTD . Since the layers of the RTD are electrically insulating aside from the tunneling effect the sleeve looks somewhat like an electrical component which has its opposite ends electrically coupled to the outer layers and .

At the resonant frequency the resonance of the sleeve causes the sleeve to effectively have a very high impedance and the sleeve is thus electrically negligible at the operating frequency. As a result the sleeve does not counteract the inherent negative resistance of the RTD at the operating frequency and thus does not detract from the inherent gain characteristic of the RTD at the operational frequency. Therefore the circuit can take optimum advantage of the inherent gain of the RTD .

With respect to frequencies other than the operating frequency the semiconductor material of the sleeve will not exhibit the plasma resonance effect. Instead it will effectively appear to the RTD to be a resistor with its opposite ends coupled to the outer layers and . A suitable value for this resistance is determined by appropriate selection of the thickness of the sleeve . As discussed above when a resistance is coupled in parallel with an RTD it tends to stabilize the RTD and avoid oscillation at frequencies other than the operating frequency. Thus the sleeve is advantageous at the operating frequency where the plasma resonance causes it to be electrically transparent so that it does not counteract the negative resistance and associated gain of the RTD . Further the sleeve is advantageous at other frequencies where the RTD sees the sleeve as a stabilizing resistance.

The embodiment of includes a single RTD . One characteristic of an RTD is that the impedance drops to very low levels at relatively high operational frequencies. There are applications where it is desirable to have a higher impedance and more power handling capability than can be provided by a single RTD. Consequently there are applications where it is desirable to couple several RTDs in series in order to increase the overall impedance at the operational frequency and in order to provide greater power handling capability. However this can produce more complex problems of instability than in the case of a single RTD.

For example if a direct current bias is provided across the entire string of series coupled RTDs with no compensation the bias may not be divided in a uniform and proportional manner among the individual RTDs which can produce instability. This can be avoided by the above discussed approach of coupling a separate resistor in parallel with each RTD. However as also discussed above such a resistor counteracts the negative resistance and associated gain of the RTD at the operational frequency of interest and is thus undesirable. As evident from the foregoing discussion it would theoretically be possible to couple a separate transmission line to each RTD in the string but this approach is prohibitively impractical in the context of a stack of series coupled RTDs. On the other hand the approach according to the invention is highly advantageous and effective when applied to the context of a string of series coupled RTDs.

In this regard is a diagrammatic sectional view of an apparatus in the form of integrated circuit which embodies aspects of the present invention and which is an alternative embodiment of the integrated circuit of . In equivalent parts are identified by the same reference numerals and the following discussion focuses on the differences. In particular the integrated circuit has a plurality of RTDs which are arranged in a vertical stack with the entire stack being disposed within the annular sleeve of doped semiconductor material.

Each of the RTDs in is equivalent in physical structure to the single RTD shown at in . The manner in which the sleeve stabilizes each of the RTDs in the stack is effectively equivalent to that described above in association with and is therefore not described again here in detail.

The configuration of is suitable for an application where for frequencies other than the operational frequency it may be difficult to obtain a desired resistance value using only the sleeve . More specifically at the operational frequency where there is resonance the outer sleeve looks like a high resistance coupled in parallel with each of the RTDs in the stack . At other frequencies the sleeves and look like two resistors coupled in parallel with each of the RTDs in the stack .

The apparatus includes electrically conductive top and bottom layers and which in the disclosed embodiment are made of gold. Further the apparatus includes an RTD section or layer and a plasma resonance layer sandwiched between the top and bottom layers and . This structure is discussed in more detail in association with .

More specifically is a diagrammatic sectional side view of the apparatus of . As shown in the RTD section or layer of the apparatus includes five layers which are respectively equivalent to the layers shown at in . The plasma resonant layer is provided on top of the layer . The layer is made of a doped semiconductor material of the same type discussed above in association with sleeve in . The bottom layer is coupled to ground and the top layer is coupled to a bias voltage V.

At the end of the apparatus two terminals and of a circuit are respectively coupled to the layers and of the RTD section . At the opposite end of the apparatus two further terminals and are coupled to the layers and . With reference to the resonant frequency of the plasma resonant layer if an input signal Vat this frequency is applied between the input terminals and this signal will propagate along the apparatus from the end to the end and will appear in amplified form between the output terminals and as an output signal V. Thus in effect the apparatus of forms a tuned active transmission line.

In order to better understand this it is helpful to remember that as discussed above in association with the elongate apparatus can be conceptually viewed as a plurality of identical sections five of which are shown at . is a schematic diagram of an equivalent circuit for the apparatus and has respective portions which as indicated by broken lines respectively correspond to the sections of the apparatus . The plasma resonance of the single semiconductor layer is represented diagrammatically in by a series of capacitors and inductors which are arranged to form a respective LC circuit within each of the sections . Similarly the RTD section or layer is represented diagrammatically by a plurality of RTDs each of which is disposed within a respective one of the sections .

When an electromagnetic wave propagates through the apparatus from the input terminals and to the output terminals and it gains energy within each of the sections by effectively pumping the plasma resonance due to the fact that the gain of the RTD structure is sufficient to offset the losses in the plasma resonance material. It will be recognized that the apparatus is a very narrowband device which is tuned by virtue of its physical structure to a specific frequency. However it will also be recognized that there are applications which are inherently restricted to a specific frequency and in which a device of this type is highly advantageous.

The present invention provides a number of advantages. One advantage is that through use of the plasma resonance of a doped semiconductor material one or more RTDs can be stabilized at frequencies other than an operating frequency which is the plasma frequency and can also function at the operating frequency without counteracting the negative resistance and its associated gain characteristic. This approach is significantly superior in performance to all other known approaches and involves a structural configuration which is very simple and inexpensive. It provides a practical and reliable technique for permitting the inherent gain of an RTD to be used for applications such as an amplifier or oscillator especially for applications involving operational frequencies higher than the upper limits of other known circuit components which have gain. Further by providing a reliable and practical technique for coupling multiple RTDs in series power handling capability and overall impedance can each be increased to levels which are suitable for certain applications in which the impedance and power handling capability of a single RTD are inadequate.

According to a different advantage a sandwich structure involving an RTD structure and a plasma resonance layer can be used to implement an oscillator or a tuned active transmission line. In each configuration the inherent gain of the RTD structure can be efficiently used for amplification or oscillation especially at high frequencies which are in excess of the operating limits of other known devices that have gain.

Although selected embodiments have been illustrated and described in detail it will be understood that various substitutions and alterations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims.

