---

title: Multi-dimensional dynamic visual browsing
abstract: Apparatus, systems, and methods may operate to present a first plurality of visible images indicating a corresponding group of visible element navigation pathways associated with a first level of an online marketplace, receive a selection of one of the first plurality of visual images to provide a selected image, and navigate to a second level of the online marketplace along the visible element navigation pathways by presenting a second plurality of visible images representing one of a super-category including the selected image and a sub-category included in the selected image, wherein the first and second levels form part of at least three levels of visual navigation. Selections may be saved for future manipulation, review, and navigation as a collection of thumbtacked images. Additional apparatus, systems, and methods are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549407&OS=08549407&RS=08549407
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08549407
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071205
---
The ubiquitous presence of networked computers and the growing use of databases web logs and email has resulted in the accumulation of vast quantities of information. Many individual computer users now have access to this information via search engines and a bewildering array of web sites. Processing this information in a manner that is user friendly and efficient creates a number of challenges and complexities.

Some of the embodiments disclosed herein seek to address the challenge of presenting large amounts of data in a meaningful way as well as other problems associated with processing a variety of data by introducing the concept of a multi dimensional visual browsing environment. Rather than searching for some specific object e.g. neighborhood group or fan club item or product visual browsing offers an alternative. This is an exploratory way to navigate content on a web site for example. The presentation comprises little if any text and is made up primarily of images displayed as a type of mosaic. Each tile in the mosaic can lead to a higher or lower level. A mouse over action taken with respect to any particular image can provide the user with general information about the item represented while selecting the image itself e.g. via mouse click permits the user to navigate to a higher or lower level or to view more detailed information.

The particular organization shown in is a representation of an online auction environment. Here a number of visible element navigation pathways exist to provide connections between the visible images . A user can navigate along the pathways by selecting any of the images shown. For example it can be seen that three levels of items exist a super category a category and a sub category . The level above the super category in this case might comprise a super super category labeled sound . The super category might then be labeled music comprising visible images which when selected permit navigation to the categories of live sound instruments and recorded sound respectively .

Thus if the image e.g. instruments is selected the user can navigate to the next level or category of instruments. This category might comprise visible images which when selected permit navigation to the categories of woodwinds brass and strings respectively. If the image e.g. strings is selected the user can navigate to the next level or sub category of stringed instruments. Selecting the visible image may indicate a choice of navigating to a still lower level e.g. sub sub category of the violin family .

It should be noted that each level may comprise any number of images as indicated by the cutoff symbols . There may also be any number of levels or categories . Due to space limitations only a few are shown in and the subsequent figures. Also it should be noted that a user may navigate between levels going higher or lower in the hierarchy along the visible element navigation pathways . Thus the bolded navigation path is just one of many that can be selected.

In addition while an auction environment is shown many other environments can be implemented including one that permits browsing across categories. For example in some embodiments a user might be able to browse tags associated with auction items sellers of auction items bidders as well as the auction items themselves all as part of an integrated set of visible element navigation pathways . Algorithms may be used to optimize the set of browsing path based on a user s browsing history. The order of image presentation along certain paths might then be weighted based on what is known about the user.

For example users who buy a lot of digital video discs DVDs may start browsing at a level labeled Star Wars. Since these users are known DVD shoppers the thousands of possible directions along the visible element navigation pathways might be weighted to present DVD productions of Star Wars episodes including sequels and similar movies prior to other possible paths e.g. models of Star Wars vehicles or robot kits . However if the user is a known collectible shopper the Star Wars level may lead more directly to entertainment memorabilia collectables etc.

As another example assume that a user is known to purchase puzzles due to prior purchase history. And assume that the initial super category of Toys has been selected by the user. If the user has purchased primarily cardboard cutout puzzles and 3D foam puzzles these two categories may be presented as the proximate image choices at the next lower level or category of toys. The image size for the more favored puzzle types might also be displayed larger than those of less interest e.g. smaller images displayed for less favored string and wood puzzles or word based puzzles .

Categories of items such as Toys are only one of many types of classification mechanisms that can be used to weight navigation along the visible element navigation pathways . For example item attributes e.g. size color weight price seller rating etc. and the user s previous history of color choices can also be used to weight navigation pathway presentation. Thus a user looking at the category of Clothes with a known preference for the color red and a buying history of large sizes might be shown large red shoes dresses and handbags before other items. The path weighted to favor a size eight shoe for instance might have a weight sloping away from size eight e.g. sizes seven and nine prior to showing sizes that are even farther away from the preferred size eight.

Tags are keywords that can be associated with a given object typically an item as another kind of classification e.g. expensive toys 60 s rock and roll etc. . While attributes are generally fixed e.g. size of a ring color of a sweater length of a pool table tags are more flexible. This is because tags may be assigned by a computer system in an automated fashion e.g. by analyzing keywords in an item description appropriate tags may be selected or by users. Users can even associate tags with themselves e.g. friendly grouchy tall short etc. .

Thus in some embodiments dynamic multi dimensional browsing permits not only traversing an item space via categories or attributes but also traversing similar items based on seller ratings or seller geographic location e.g. to minimize shipping time or to permit personal package pickup .

Neighborhoods can also be used as a pathway traversal mechanism. Neighborhoods are areas or pages on a web site where users with common interests can join and participate in question and answer sessions as well as post favorite items guides product reviews photos blogs wikis discussion threads guest books and searches. Other communal activities where users can congregate around a topic like a professional sports team collectors of antique toys etc. are also included.

Users e.g. buyers sellers bidders employees neighborhood members etc. can attach tags to themselves. Such self assigned tags may include hobbies favorite books movies and shows gender age friends trading partners. Users may also be associated with system assigned tags or tags arising out of profile information e.g. geographic locations feedback items purchased items sold saved items watched items searches price range of purchases time and or date of purchases etc. .

Controls may be presented to a user to further focus or limit browsing. For example a visual slider control might be used to select sizes colors price ranges etc. In more complex embodiments sliders may be used to weight presentations so that for example sellers with a high trust rating are displayed ahead of sellers with a low trust rating. Buyers that have many purchases from a particular seller might be displayed before those with less experience. In some embodiments the control which may be something other than a slider such as a knob or switch widget can be used to broaden or narrow the number of items seen on any particular level. Such controls may also be used to select how relevant the presented items in each level are to the desired categories. Many other variations are possible.

Once an image of interest is located a user can thumbtack it by selecting it in some way so that it can be saved. In this way many items can be viewed and those of interest can be selected and saved as part of a series or collection. Browsing can thus continue uninterrupted as the items are selected for saving. At a later time the user can go back to revisit whatever was marked to save.

Users may also be permitted to indicate approval of items selected or disapproval to help optimize the browsing experience so that characteristics of items approved are used to select other items further down in the search tree. Thus some search paths may be prioritized and others de prioritized. In this way not only browsing history but explicit positive negative feedback can be used to weight the paths presented for browsing.

Here the BROWSE menu option has been selected calling up the VISUAL BROWSING page . This selection permits the user to enter into a multi dimensional visual browsing environment. Other menu options might include choosing to view a visual index visual categories or groups visual representations of prior searches or a thumbtack gallery see .

The visual portal can be used to current path as well as the item image which was last selected. The existence of additional items at a particular level can be indicated via arrows .

A mapping window may be used to display a reduced size map of the visual browsing portal content . The map can help to orient the user as to their position within a higher level overview of the visible element navigation pathways. Several user preference options such as limits on the browsing experience where specific categories tags neighborhoods and other data can be selected to exclude or include certain search paths visual element and path presentation factor weights and other display preferences e.g. how many visual elements to display at once in the portal can be selected.

When images are selected for saving a thumbtack icon may be activated so that whenever the icon is active clicking on an image marks the image for saving as part of a thumbtack gallery collection. In some embodiments a message field in the GUI may be used to inform the user how many items have been thumbtacked or when the last search was conducted etc.

For example in this particular wing of the museum a number of guitars are shown. The images allow the user to distinguish between an Epiphone G1275 Custom Double Neck Guitar and Gibson Les Paul Studio Electric guitar respectively. Selecting any image in particular such as the image may have the effect of permitting the user to navigate to that point in the visible element navigational pathways where the item was originally located. Additional images that have been marked for saving or thumbtacked can be accessed by clicking on the widget .

The apparatus may include one or more processors coupled to a memory . Selections such as those made by a user with respect to a visual image encountered during multi dimensional visual browsing may be received by the apparatus and stored in the memory and or processed by a combination of the processor and the browser module . Thus many embodiments may be realized.

For example an apparatus to accomplish visual browsing may comprise a browser module to navigate along a plurality of visible element navigations pathways forming a portion of an online marketplace and a display to present a first plurality of visible images indicating a corresponding group of the plurality of visible element navigation pathways associated with a first level of the online marketplace. An online marketplace may comprise an online auction environment an online retail or wholesale purchase environment or any other online environment where goods and or services are made available for purchase.

The apparatus may also include one or more user input devices to receive a selection of one of the first plurality of visual images to provide a selected image and a processor to navigate to a second level of the online marketplace along the visible element navigation pathways by presenting on the display a second plurality of visible images representing a super category including the selected image or a sub category included in the selected image wherein the first and second levels form part of at least three levels of visual navigation.

The browser module may comprise a concrete application a thin client or other software and or firmware to interface with a networked online marketplace. The user input device may comprise one or more of a voice recognizer a keyboard or keypad a touch screen or a mouse . The display and or the touchscreen may be used to display one or more GUIs such as those shown in .

The apparatus may comprise a GUI to couple to the browser module . The GUI may be used to arrange a presentation of the first plurality of visible images and the second plurality of visible images wherein at least one member from the first plurality of visible images is displayed on the display at the same time as the second plurality of visible images. Thus the user can view what has been selected from a prior level along with images on the current level. In some embodiments the user can view the current level and the next lower level. In other embodiments any number of levels may be viewed.

A system to enable visual browsing may include one or more of the apparatus such as one or more terminals and one or more servers . The terminals may take the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a cellular telephone a point of sale POS terminal and other devices that can be coupled to the server via a network . Terminals may include one or more processors and memory . The network may comprise a wired network a wireless network a local area network LAN or a network of larger scope such as a global computer network e.g. the Internet . Thus the terminal may comprise a wireless terminal. Each of the servers and terminals may be used to select images encountered during multi dimensional visual browsing as shown in . Thus selections may be originated at the server and or the terminals .

Therefore many embodiments may be realized. For example a system may comprise any one or more components of the terminal including a browser module to navigate along a plurality of visible element navigations pathways forming a portion of an online marketplace. The browser module may be located entirely within the apparatus the server or divided between the apparatus and the server .

Thus the system may comprise a client computer e.g. terminal including a display to present a first plurality of visible images indicating a corresponding group of the plurality of visible element navigation pathways associated with a first level of the online marketplace. The system may comprise one or more user input devices as well as a server to store at least one of the first plurality of visible images and the second plurality of visible images. Any one of the processors may operate as described with respect to the apparatus above. The server may comprise a plurality of computers coupled to a global computer network e.g. the Internet . Storage in conjunction with server operations may be accomplished using the memory the storage unit or both. One or more databases may be maintained by the server to track presentation factor weighting images and associated information user activity history and other information.

The method may go on to block with presenting a visual slider mechanism having a plurality of positions to indicate a selected relevance level associated with the visible element navigation pathways the second plurality of visible images or both. This enables users to control the level of image relevance during their browsing experience.

For example a slider widget may be used during the browse experience to control the specificity of relevance in the browse path. One implementation of the slider might be as a camera aperture setting . The user can specify that they want to see only images that are highly relevant versus a broader view that encompasses items that are less relevant. The aperture setting can permit the user to cull items when too many are presented for comfortable browsing or to be more inclusive when fewer items are available. For example users that search for and buy video games may tend to search and buy DVDs so a slider can be used to narrow the DVDs that are found down to only those having video games or to broaden the search to include other types of software on DVDS or even more broadly to any type of content such as music videos available via DVD. Essentially the slider can control how tightly or loosely affiliated new items in the browse path will be when compared to prior selections. It should be noted that a slider may comprise a visual representation of a conventional sliding mechanism such as a linear potentiometer or any other type of control that allows selection of multiple choices such as a visual representation of a knob a multi pole switch a dial etc. The slider can thus be used to control relevance during visual browsing or simply to select one item from among several in a given level or group.

The method may go on to block to include asynchronously querying ahead of the current selection along the visible element navigation pathways. Given the massive amounts of data and queries to a database that may be involved when multi dimensional visual browsing is implemented various embodiments may operate to query ahead of the current user selection while browsing occurs. This can enable a smoother browsing experience at a given level while data for subsequent potential paths is retrieved ahead of the next user selection.

The method may thus include receiving a selection of one of the first plurality of visual images to provide a selected image at block . It should be noted that the display of nodes in the browse path may change based on the type of objects or images that are selected. For example items available for purchase may simply be displayed as a static or moving picture representation of the object. In other cases where the category of items changes e.g. from perishable food items to musicians available to play in a band the picture of the musician alone may not provide enough information to the user. In that case the musician and their instrument may be displayed perhaps in conjunction with a stage name. In the instance where images of sellers are shown perhaps a group of items typically sold will be pictured in conjunction with an image of the seller. Brand icons tags associated with the seller e.g. rating and or other information may be displayed as well.

In some embodiments the method may include making a determination as to whether a presentation factor has been established at block . A presentation factor can be used to weight the presentation of images along the visible element navigation pathways as described above. Thus the first plurality of visual images and the second plurality of visual images can be presented in an order weighted according to one or more presentation factors which may in turn be taken from elements included in item categories item attributes and item tags associated with a determined user preference and or an expressed user preference. A determined user preference is established based on user browsing history e.g. prior purchases size price range etc. whereas an expressed user preference is provided by the user to weight image presentations according to the expressed desire of the user e.g. user profile information slider input etc. .

Thus presentation factors can be taken from a wide range of data including one or more elements included in user profiles user activity history the activity history of others user interaction history the interaction history of others and community interaction history. Profile elements may be included in the user profiles entered by the user . User activity history may include a collection of user activity choices saved by the system e.g. transaction history categories with repeat purchases categories with the most watched items etc. . The activity history of others includes presenting images according to the popularity of visual paths navigated by others e.g. weighting according to the predominant paths in a collection of paths chosen by others . User interaction history can include a collection of interactions between users e.g. email threads ratings etc. saved by the system. Community interaction history may include a collection of interactions between the user and various neighborhoods e.g. blogs . These latter presentation factors may be useful for browsing images of users and or neighborhoods.

In every case one or more presentation factors may be determined or changed at block if none have been established or if currently established presentation factors are to be revised. Thus the method may include receiving a presentation factor to weight the order of presentation of either the first plurality of visual images the second plurality of visual images or both. The value and type of presentation factors may be changed at any time including changing the type of one or more presentation factors according to the current location of a user selection along the visible navigation pathways. The presentation factor can also be changed to reflect association with the visual presentation order weighting from a series of stored selections e.g. prior selections . That is the weighting of the image presentation order can change according to the particular location a user occupies on the navigation pathways or according to the prior paths taken to arrive at a particular location or both.

In most embodiments the method includes at block navigating to a second level of the online marketplace along the visible element navigation pathways by presenting a second plurality of visible images representing one of a super category including the selected image and a sub category included in the selected image wherein the first and second levels form part of at least three levels of visual navigation. The selected image may be presented as one or more of an item a user and a neighborhood forming a portion of an online marketplace.

The method may go on to include receiving a user selection of one or more of the second plurality of visible images and perhaps saving the user selection as part of a collection of user selections e.g. when thumbtacks are used at block . The method may go on to include presenting the collection of user selections on a display at block which may include viewing a collection of thumbtacks. Once a collection is displayed the method may include at block receiving a user selection of an item included in the collection of user selections and navigating to a location on the visible navigation pathways corresponding to the user selection by presenting detailed descriptive information about the user selection. The amount of information presented may be more or less than that available from a mouse over action which includes a user acting to hover an on screen pointer over an image displayed on the screen. Still other embodiments may be realized.

For example some computer implemented methods of multi dimensional visual browsing include presenting at least one of a first plurality of visual images and a second plurality of visual images in an order weighted according to at least one presentation factor at block . The method may continue on to block with receiving a selection of one of the first plurality of visual images to provide a selected image wherein the first plurality of images indicate a corresponding group of visible element navigation pathways associated with a first level of an online marketplace. The group of navigation pathways may lead to presenting images of one or more of items e.g. products services users e.g. buyers sellers and neighborhood communities perhaps forming a portion of an online marketplace.

Thus the notion of browsing across related or different data types is included in some embodiments. For example a user may begin by browsing items in a given category navigating to products e.g. catalog entries that are unique to a given part number etc. . From products the user might navigate to sellers of products and from sellers of products to tags associated with sellers and from tags to neighborhoods associated with the tags and so on.

In some embodiments the method may include changing the value of at least one presentation factor according to the location along the visible navigation pathways so that the amount of weight changes based on path selections or current location at block .

The method may go on to block to include navigating to a second level of the online marketplace along the visible element navigation pathways by presenting a second plurality of visible images representing a sub category included in the selected image wherein the first and second levels form part of at least three levels of visual navigation.

If the user makes use of a mouse over action to hover an on screen pointer on a selected image as determined at block then the method may include as shown in block presenting abbreviated descriptive information regarding at least one of the second plurality of visible images in response to a mouse over action selecting the at least one of the second plurality of visible images.

In many embodiments such as those making use of thumbtack operations the method may include as shown in block storing a series of images forming a portion of the visible element navigation pathways as individual ones of the series are selected. The individual ones of the series may correspond to items users and or communities forming part of the online marketplace. Additional information may be stored as well such as any and all data associated with selected images e.g. tags location along the navigation pathways the identity of the user making the selection etc. .

The method may go on to include presenting the series of images as a collection of images at block receiving a selection of one of the collection to provide a single image at block and navigating to a location on the visible navigation pathways corresponding to the single image by presenting detailed descriptive information about the single image at block . Thus images that have been saved using thumbtacks can be recalled as a collection and selected individually for review.

The methods described herein do not have to be executed in the order described or in any particular order. Moreover various activities described with respect to the methods identified herein can be executed in repetitive serial or parallel fashion. Information including parameters commands operands and other data can be sent and received in the form of one or more carrier waves.

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions defined in the software program. Various programming languages may be employed to create one or more software programs designed to implement and perform the methods disclosed herein. The programs may be structured in an object orientated format using an object oriented language such as Java or C . Alternatively the programs can be structured in a procedure orientated format using a procedural language such as assembly or C. The software components may communicate using a number of mechanisms well known to those skilled in the art such as application program interfaces or interprocess communication techniques including remote procedure calls. The teachings of various embodiments are not limited to any particular programming language or environment.

Thus the methods described herein may be performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. dedicated logic programmable logic firmware e.g. microcode etc. software e.g. algorithmic or relational programs run on a general purpose computer system or a dedicated machine or any combination of the above. It should be noted that the processing logic may reside in any of the modules described herein.

Therefore other embodiments may be realized including a machine readable medium e.g. the memories of encoded with instructions for directing a machine to perform operations comprising any of the methods described herein. For example some embodiments may include a machine readable medium encoded with instructions for directing a server or client terminal or computer to perform a variety of operations. Such operations may include any of the activities presented in conjunction with the methods described above. Various embodiments may specifically include a machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform any of the activities recited by such methods.

The applications themselves are communicatively coupled e.g. via appropriate interfaces to each other and to various data sources so as to allow information to be passed between the applications or so as to allow the applications to share and access common data. The applications may furthermore access one or more databases via database servers e.g. database server of . Any one or all of the applications may serve as a source of images associated information and presentation factors for processing image data according to the methods described herein. The applications may also serve as a source of determined user preferences and or expressed user preferences.

In some embodiments the applications may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the applications may include a number of marketplace applications such as at least one publication application and one or more auction applications which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction applications may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A number of fixed price applications support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Store applications allow a seller to group listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the seller. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

Reputation applications allow users that transact business perhaps utilizing a networked system to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. When for example a networked system supports person to person trading users may otherwise have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications allow a user through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within a networked system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such reputations for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

Personalization applications allow users of networked systems to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the networked system. For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application create a personalized reference page at which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further a personalization application may enable a user to personalize listings and other aspects of their interactions with the networked system and other parties.

Marketplaces may be customized for specific geographic regions. Thus one version of the applications may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the applications may be customized for the United States. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. The applications may accordingly include a number of internationalization applications that customize information and or the presentation of information by a networked system according to predetermined criteria e.g. geographic demographic or marketplace criteria . For example the internationalization applications may be used to support the customization of information for a number of regional websites that are operated by a networked system and that are accessible via respective web servers.

Navigation of a networked system may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application as an example of a navigation application may enable key word searches of listings published via a networked system publication application . A browse application may allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within a networked system. Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications including the multi dimensional dynamic visual browsing applications described herein.

In order to make listings available on a networked system as visually informing and attractive as possible marketplace applications may operate to include one or more imaging applications which users may use to upload images for inclusion within listings. An imaging application can also operate to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging applications may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

Listing creation applications allow sellers conveniently to author listings pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via a networked system and listing management applications allow sellers to manage such listings. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of listings the management of such listings may present a challenge. The listing management applications provide a number of features e.g. auto relisting inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such listings. One or more post listing management applications can assist sellers with activities that typically occur post listing. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction applications a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post listing management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation applications so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation applications .

Dispute resolution applications provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications implement fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within a networked system.

Messaging applications are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of a networked system such messages for example advising users regarding the status of listings on the networked system e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or to provide promotional and merchandising information to users . Respective messaging applications may utilize any number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example messaging applications may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via wired e.g. Ethernet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

Merchandising applications support various merchandising functions that are made available to sellers to enable sellers to increase sales via a networked system. The merchandising applications also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

A networked system itself or one or more users that transact business via the networked system may operate loyalty programs that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions applications . For example a buyer may earn loyalty or promotions points for each transaction established and or concluded with a particular seller and be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

Turning specifically to the system an Application Program Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more commerce applications e.g. similar to or identical to the applications of and multi dimensional visual browsing applications e.g. similar to or identical to the browser modules of . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases similar to or identical to the database of such as registries that include links between individuals their profiles their behavior patterns user generated information topical ranks and signatures.

Further while the system employs a client server architecture the various embodiments are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well be applied in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system. The various applications and may also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client it will be appreciated may access the various applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the application programming interface API server . The programmatic client may for example comprise a browser module e.g. similar to or identical to the browser module of to enable a user to submit selections of items perhaps performing batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the network based system . Client applications and support applications may perform similar or identical functions.

In some embodiments the machine may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may comprise a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory all of which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. liquid crystal displays LCD or cathode ray tube CRT . The display unit may be used to display a GUI according to the embodiments described with respect to . The computer system also may include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit may include a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device which may comprise a wired and or wireless interface device.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include tangible media that include but are not limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media.

Certain applications or processes are described herein as including a number of modules or mechanisms. A module or a mechanism may be a unit of distinct functionality that can provide information to and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Modules may also initiate communication with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

In conclusion it can be seen that various embodiments of the invention can operate to present a unique exploration experience to a user accessing large quantities of information. The embodiments disclosed can present a multi dimensional visual browsing alternative to more conventional keyword based searching mechanisms perhaps permitting those of different nationalities or educational levels to access the same data in a similar manner. Increased user satisfaction may result.

The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

