---

title: Real time environmental measurement and reporting system for navigable waterways and method of use
abstract: COTS devices are integrated into a system employing custom software and custom hardware and software interfaces to collect and communicate data concerning current flows around fixed structure (e.g., inland locks, bridges, harbor structures, etc.) in various bodies of water (e.g., inland waterways, harbors, canals, etc.). Embodiments comprise: sensors and communications equipment, for example wireless systems that transmit sensor data to a lock house; lock house communications equipment that receive sensor data; a processor, e.g., a personal computer, with installed custom software and interface for processing data; an Automatic Identification System (AIS) transponder interfaced to the processor; an AIS installed in vessels to include an electronic vector chart display, such as may be installed in a towboat pilothouse; and an optional web-based database application for lock operators to record dam operation scenarios that may be used in research, investigations, and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07751977&OS=07751977&RS=07751977
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07751977
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070710
---
Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to an undivided interest therein on any patent granted thereon by the United States. This patent has multiple assignees.

The inland waterway system of the United States is an important transportation resource. In 2004 over 625 million tons of cargo was moved over it using 1 of the total fuel consumption for freight transport of 16 of the nation s freight. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 2005 . Bureau of Transportation Statistics BTS Tables 4 5 and 5 7 2006 . Further inland maritime transportation relies on passage through 212 locks. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 2005 .

 Outdrafts artificially induced currents directed away from a dam are created by the actuation of dams. Tow pilots approaching navigation locks around a dam compensate for the outdraft to avoid hitting lock walls.

Not compensating for outdrafts may result in accidents that cause injury or loss of life and property as well as damage to embankments. U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 2006 . For example the Elizabeth M. was exiting the Montgomery Locks northbound on the Ohio River on Jan. 9 2005. The lead two barges in tow broke loose after being caught in an outdraft estimated at 13 15 mph. When the pilot tried to correct the tow and barges were swept into the dam killing four crew members. 17 23 2005 2005 .

Other accidents have resulted in barges obstructing inland maritime traffic. The M V James Buky blocked the lock at the Cannelton Dam in January 1991 and the M V Captain Bill blocked the lock at the Smithland Dam in April 2005. In each case barges broke free as a result of improper compensation for the outdraft. In all cases knowledge of the outdraft will insure efficient approaches providing tow pilots with the necessary time to compensate for outdraft.

Refer to showing the prior art i.e. lack of a formal outdraft notification system. In practice a vessel not shown separately navigating downstream in the direction of the arrow approaches a lock chamber at a dam through a channel bordered by walls that act to align the vessel with the lock chamber . Guard walls located in the upper upstream lock approach protect vessels against an induced current not shown separately created by discharges downstream from the dam . Guide walls guide vessels into the channel on the downstream passage and align vessels with lock entry through gates on the upstream passage.

Refer to showing the prior art from an overhead perspective i.e. lack of a formal outdraft notification system. There may be an increased hazard to navigation created by outdraft of unknown amplitude and direction at the Guard wall . This unknown i.e. unmeasured and un reported outdraft makes it more difficult to maneuver a tow being pushed downstream by the river.

A towboat traveling on a downriver course arrow reduces speed to less than one knot in order to safely align with the lock chamber and avoid impact with the Guard wall . In an upper lock approach water flows across the lock and towards the dam forming a cross current for which a pilot must compensate. Typically this current is generated by a gated spillway section of the dam that controls discharges downstream. This cross current commonly called outdraft current or simply outdraft directs the bow of the tow or barge toward the spillway of the dam altering the effects of the normal downstream current that is known to the pilot.

Presently estimating velocity and direction of outdrafts is accomplished by fixed objects such as buoys. Navigating through outdraft by feel alone is not sufficient to reduce risk however. Moreover existing communication methods such as large signs displaying outdraft present as well as informal discussions between passing tow pilots do not quantify the direction and speed of the outdraft.

Velocity of a current including those generated as outdraft may be measured using Acoustic Doppler Current Profiling ADCP . ADCP employs the Doppler Effect transmitting short pulses of electromagnetic energy at acoustic wavelengths and receiving echoes thereof. Echoes return from particulates such as silt sediment biological matter and bubbles suspended in the water. R.D. Instruments 1996 . Estimates of a current s velocity and direction are obtained by processing of the Doppler data.

The Physical Oceanographic Real Time System PORTS developed in 1989 and used in Tampa Bay disseminates information on safe navigation oil spills search and rescue fishing and existing weather conditions. Appell Gerald F. Vol. 19 No. 2 1994 pp. 149 157 . The PORTS system employs two measurement stations using ADCPs other meteorological sensors and a data acquisition and information dissemination system DAS IDS . The ADCPs are located on the bay floor to monitor currents from near the bottom to near the surface and transmit pulses at pre programmed intervals so that a six minute reading averages about 345 pulses.

In the Houston Ship Channel another application of PORTS employs an ADCP system to monitor currents in real time. Appell Gerald F. pp. 289 292 1996 . The system uses a profiler specifically designed for shallow water. It is polled on request by a remote station through a serial cable linked to land and data on the current is recorded internally. PORTS information for the channel is available as recorded voice online or both.

A system like PORTS is used to collect data for hydrodynamic and water quality modeling in New York Harbor. Coomes C. A. 95 Conference Proceedings. Vol. 2 pp. 1381 1385 1995 . Data are stored internally and communicated via serial link to a computer in real time.

HADCP is used in a current profiling project in Lillebaelt Denmark for an inexpensive method of determining flow in narrow navigation passages. A traditional ADCP and a HADCP are used a two beam ADCP unit validating data from the HADCP device. Rorbaek K. 2001 .

One approach to alerting a tow pilot to currents around a lock is verbal communication from the lock master. For example viewing data from an ADCP sensor the lock master relays information to a tow pilot via VHF radio. Because vessels and the lock are required to communicate during locking this was considered a viable means of guiding the tow. Data could be transmitted over systems such as wireless Local Area Networks LAN radios and Automatic Identification Systems AIS . This verbal communication is not automated and may occur too late in some situations to be of help to the tow pilot.

Automatic Identification Systems AIS comprise radio transponders required by the International Maritime Organization IMO for use in certain operating areas. Integrating VHF and GPS technology AIS provides information concerning vessel Maritime Mobile Service Identity MMSI numbers course speed ports of call and the like. U.S. Coast Guard 2006 . Through AIS communication mariners gain a valuable method by which vessels may exchange data in real time. For example when overlaid on an electronic chart ships within 30 50 miles of an AIS equipped vessel are indicated as a velocity vector.

Provision of the information is automated and made available to a towboat pilot in real time on an electronic chart display as vectors similar to warnings of vessels in the area. Within the AIS standards a message format contains both meteorological and hydrologic data termed met hydro messages. Table 1 lists information that may be contained in these messages. International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation Lighthouse Authorities IALA 1028 1 Edition 1.3 December 2004 .

ADCP units are available from several commercial sources. Initially ADCP units profiled currents vertically from a riverbed or ocean floor. Recently developed ADCP equipment the Horizontal ADCP HADCP is a side looking device able to measure the velocity and direction of a horizontal current. HADCPs have been used in such diverse applications as deep draft shipping channels and estuaries oil exploration and in support of production rigs and power plants. R.D. Instruments 2004 . Neither ADCP nor HADCP has been used to help tow pilots during lock and dam transition until an embodiment of the present invention was tested for that purpose.

A tow pilot uses successive fixes relative to surrounding geographic points area hydrology and current meteorology. Hayler W. B. 7edition 2003 . Using nautical charts the pilot also employs dead reckoning based on present course distance and speed. The pilot combines successive fixes and dead reckoning plots to adjust course and speed in accordance with external factors such as current wind waterway conditions hazards and the like. Modern towboats have a functional display typically referred to as an integrated navigation system INS or integrated bridge system IBS displaying a variety of these navigational resources on a single interface. Olsen Oddmund Leknes Norway Poseidon 2002 .

Through interface with AIS radio communications or other wireless technology vectors representing current direction and velocity may be projected onto the charts of the INS or IBS to alert tow pilots. For example communicating the direction and velocity of real time current data around a lock provides required information for minimizing risk in navigating a lock.

Risks due to outdrafts at dams can be reduced or eliminated by employing a system and method for measuring and communicating outdraft direction and velocity in real time. Preferably the system incorporates commercial off the shelf COTS hardware. A system and method for measuring and communicating outdraft velocity and direction was tested on the Tennessee Tombigbee Waterway at the Tom Bevill Lock and Dam known to have a strong outdraft upstream of the lock. Testing demonstrated the viability of a system and method for measuring and reporting outdraft measurements at locks as well as potential for its use at bridges and in harbors.

For select embodiments of the present invention COTS devices are integrated into a system employing specially developed software together with custom hardware and software interfaces to collect and communicate data concerning current flows around fixed structure e.g. inland locks bridges harbor structures and the like in various bodies of water e.g. inland waterways harbors canals and the like . Select embodiments of the present invention comprise sensors and communications equipment for example wireless systems that transmit sensor data to a lock house lock house communications equipment that receive sensor data a processor such as a personal computer with installed custom software and interface for processing data an AIS transponder interfaced to the processor an AIS installed in an approaching vessel to include an electronic chart display in the vessel such as in a towboat pilothouse and an optional web based database application for lock operators to record dam operation scenarios that may be used for research purposes investigations and the like. For example select embodiments of the present invention provide means for archiving and analyzing outdraft data for research into improvements that will reduce the risk in traversing a lock.

In select embodiments of the present invention AIS may disseminate automated messages to tow pilots. For example a transponder may be installed in a lock house to broadcast safety information e.g. wind direction and speed outdraft direction and speed and the like to tow pilots approaching the lock without interfering with the primary functions of AIS.

In select embodiments of the present invention a system providing measures of existing environmental conditions near manmade structure proximate navigable portions of bodies of water comprises one or more sensing means to measure one or more environmental conditions near the manmade structure and to collect data on the condition at pre specified intervals one or more communications means connected to the sensing means for retrieving the data and one or more processing means comprising hardware and software for receiving the data from the communications means and for processing the data for use by a captain of a vessel approaching the man made structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the manmade structure comprises a lock that allows safe passage of waterborne vessels in a navigable body of water.

In select embodiments of the present invention one of the means for sensing comprises one or more Horizontal Acoustic Doppler Current Profiling HADCP systems used for collecting data as one or more measures of velocity and direction of horizontal current in the bodies of water proximate one or more portions of the manmade structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the sensing means further comprises one or more wind sensors to provide one or more measures of wind velocity and direction as measured near one or more portions of the manmade structure near the body of water.

In select embodiments of the present invention the communicating means comprises one or more wireless communications systems. In select embodiments of the present invention the wireless communications systems comprise a first wireless system for communication between one or more of the sensing means and a second wireless system for communicating to one or more vessels preparing to traverse a navigable portion near the manmade structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the processing means comprises one or more personal computers configured with custom developed software for translating data from the means for sensing to a format suitable for use in automatically communicating with a COTS identification system used onboard one or more commercial vessels traversing the navigable portion of the waterway near the manmade structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention a system provides measures of existing environmental conditions around manmade structure located near navigable portions of bodies of water comprising one or more sensors for collecting environmental data at pre specified intervals one or more communications systems connected to the sensors and one or more processors comprising hardware and software for processing the data received from the communications systems connected to the sensors.

In select embodiments of the present invention the sensor comprises one or more Horizontal Acoustic Doppler Current Profiling HADCP systems for collecting measures of velocity and direction of horizontal current within the body of water near one or more portions of the manmade structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the sensors further comprise one or more wind sensors providing data on measures of wind velocity and direction as measured near one or more portions of the manmade structure near the body of water.

In select embodiments of the present invention the communication system comprises one or more wireless communications systems. In select embodiments of the present invention the wireless communications system comprises a first wireless system for communication between the sensors and a second wireless system for communicating with vessels preparing to traverse the navigable portion of the body of water near the manmade structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the first wireless communication system comprises a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN employing the IEEE 802.11g standard and the second wireless communication system comprises one or more VHF radios.

In select embodiments of the present invention the processor comprises one or more personal computers configured with custom developed software for translating data from the sensors to a format suitable for use in automatically communicating with a COTS identification system used onboard some commercial vessels traversing the navigable portion of the body of water near the manmade structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the COTS identification system is the Automatic Identification System AIS approved by the U.S. Coast Guard. In select embodiments of the present invention the AIS further comprises one or more AIS transponders and one or more vector based AIS electronic chart displays onboard the vessels.

In select embodiments of the present invention the processor further comprises one or more interfaces to one or more databases containing data on occurrences related to operation of one or more of the manmade structures.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method provides measures of existing environmental conditions near manmade structure proximate navigable portions of bodies of water comprising providing one or more means for sensing one or more environmental conditions proximate the manmade structure and for collecting data on the condition at pre specified intervals providing one or more means for communicating connected to the means for sensing and collecting data and providing one or means for processing the data the means for processing receiving data from the means for communicating. The means for processing the data comprises hardware and software.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method provides measures of existing environmental conditions near manmade structure proximate navigable portions of bodies of water comprising providing at least one sensor collecting the measures as data at pre specified intervals providing one or more communications systems communicating with the sensors providing one or more processors comprising hardware and software for processing the data the processors communicating with the communications system.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method provides measures of existing environmental conditions near manmade structure proximate navigable portions of bodies of water comprising collecting at pre specified intervals data representing one or more existing environmental condition communicating the data to one or more processors converting the data via the processor into a format suitable for use by a COTS identification system and automatically communicating the converted data to vessels equipped for communication via the COTS identification system as the vessels approach the navigable portions of the body of water near the manmade structure. In select embodiments of the present invention this method further comprises interfacing with a database containing data on occurrences related to operation of one or more of the manmade structures.

Refer to a pictorial representation of major components of select embodiments of the present invention. A HADCP unit and a wind sensor both powered by a power source not shown separately are mounted with suitable mounts and connectors on the leading edge of a Guard wall and communications therewith from a control center such as a lock house is provided by suitable means such as IEEE 802.11g wireless communications equipment. In select embodiments of the present invention the base not shown separately of an underwater mounting structure not shown separately houses the HADCP unit . The wind sensor is mounted above the HADCP unit preferably on a lock wall such as a Guard wall . Wind parameters are provided because towboats with a significant number of empty barges will be affected by both outdraft and wind.

The instrument sensor chosen for the demonstration of a select embodiment of the present invention is an RDI 600 kHz HADCP unit with an acoustic range of 300 feet. RD Instruments RDI 1996 . The RDI unit has a narrow beam so that maximum profiling is achieved without the possibility of contamination caused by contact with the river bottom or surface. A third beam accounts for error by determining the differences in velocity between the two outboard beams while also providing data redundancy and contributing to quality assurance.

The RDI sensor may be powered by AC power distributed to a lock wall such as the Guard wall . A backup power supply not shown separately may be employed in the event the lock or dam generators are cycled. In select embodiments of the present invention only an aluminum mounting bracket not shown separately is required unlike bottom mounted units in saltwater applications. This bracket may be mounted on an I beam not shown separately that allows for the instrument to be accessed via a winch e.g. for inspection upgrading repair and the like. The bracket may have safety cables not shown separately attached to the lock wall e.g. a Guard wall for retrieval of the HADCP unit in situations where the unit may have been damaged e.g. impacted by a passing barge storm surge and the like. This configuration has a distinct advantage of not requiring divers for service of the instrument.

As shown in data from the HADCP unit and wind sensor may be transmitted to the lock house via wireless means such as wireless radios based on the IEEE standard 802.11g. A personal computer PC in the lock house uses custom software to convert the data from binary to ASCII format check the data for quality compose a series of four met hydro AIS formatted messages one message for each of three water sampling points plus a wind message log the data to a text file preferably on the hard drive of the PC and wirelessly transmit the properly formatted data via a VHF radio to an AIS transponder e.g. one located in the wheelhouse of approaching vessels not shown separately .

In locks operated by the Army Corps of Engineers a custom web database application enables lock operators to record flows at the dam . In an alternative embodiment this existing application could be employed to replace a paper based log that may be used in some embodiments by a link to the existing application from the PC . By collecting empirical data on operating conditions and flow data at a dam outdraft current direction and velocity may be able to be correlated with dam operating parameters. Depending on the validity of any relationship developed between dam operation and outdraft parameters estimates of outdraft may be made with satisfactory confidence levels based on dam operating parameters. This data may be used for further research investigations and the like as noted above.

The AIS not shown separately in the vessel receives data communicated by the VHF radio to an AIS transponder e.g. one located on the bridge of a vessel. Met hydro messages will display only on vector based electronic chart systems thus vessels wishing to utilize the service must be equipped with these. Raster based charting systems will not display the vectors without modification. Refer to for a screen capture of how the vectors appear on an electronic charting system such as one incorporated in an AIS.

In select embodiments of the present invention software programming involves translating packets of binary current data from the HADCP unit and the wind sensor into ASCII format for analysis before messages containing the information are sent to the AIS transponder . All sensor data are checked for validity before forwarding to approaching vessels. Sources of error include the presence of vessels and debris in the beam s of the HADCP unit . These anomalies are indicated by rapid increases in echo and error velocity. For initial conditions lack of existing data limits the application from establishing and setting thresholds until analysis can be performed on a representative history of operation of the dam and lock after the HADCP unit and wind sensor are installed. Initially thresholds may be based on suggested values of correlation and error velocity supplied by technical experts and the experience of maritime researchers.

In select embodiments of the present invention the software detects when the processor is unable to communicate with the sensors and AIS transponder s transmitting an e mail automatically to system providers as an alert. In select embodiments of the present invention the system may be accessed remotely using terminal services software.

Refer to a screen capture of an input page for software that may be installed on a PC employed in select embodiments of the present invention. In select embodiments of the present invention this software is always available to an operator e.g. a lock operator. The geographic coordinates of the HADCP unit and the wind sensor may be changed as shown at e.g. to support other temporary installations. Further ADCP settings may be changed to meet user requirements and new installation locations. Note that the references to ADCP position and ADCP settings refer to the HADCP unit installed in select embodiments of the present invention. The Bin Selection tab computes the distance of each selected bin based on the sensor configuration i.e. where they are mounted with respect to a known point such as the end of a Guard wall . Lock operators may change the selected bins and determine where the resulting data point is located as measured in feet from the mount of the HADCP unit . In select embodiments of the present invention the Most Recent Data tab contains the most recent outdraft current measurements direction and velocity available to a lock operator.

To demonstrate the ability to quantify outdraft and communicate data in real time to vessels approaching a lock a system was tested and the concept proved on an actual lock the Tom Bevill Lock and Dam on the Tennessee Tombigbee Waterway. The test system incorporated COTS instruments and components and comprises four basic components sensor and communications equipment for transmitting sensor data to the lock house communications equipment within the lock house to receive sensor data together with an interfaced PC configured with custom software for processing the data and an AIS transponder interfaced with the computer an AIS system onboard approaching vessels including a vector based AIS electronic chart display in the pilothouse. As an option a web based database application may be made available for lock operators to record dam flows that may be correlated with the data taken on outdraft currents for use in research investigations and the like as noted above.

This short test demonstrated the viability of an embodiment of the present invention. Moreover with a modest installation cost and custom software that requires minimal site specific modification an embodiment of the present invention may be employed at bridges and in harbors as well as similar applications.

Refer to a pictorial representation from upstream of the Tom Bevill Lock and Dam. An embodiment of the present invention was installed for a short period in a proof of concept pilot program at this lock at the end of the Guard wall and in the lock house . The two weeks following installation were characterized by a lack of rain. Thus the dam gates were closed during most of this period and the outdraft current velocity averaged only 0.1 mph. However the direction of the current was as expected flowing across the Guard wall toward the dam gates as measured by the HDACP unit mounted at .

Refer to a screen capture of the display of an Electronic Navigation Computer ENC not shown separately showing the real time vectors for current and wind . AIS software installed in the lockhouse at Tom Bevill Lock and Dam enabled lock operators to see the current vectors and approaching AIS equipped vessels such as towboats. Though very little current was measured at the time the outdraft direction was as expected directly toward the dam gates. In select embodiments of the present invention messages from the lock house to approaching AIS equipped vessels are generated automatically approximately once every two minutes. These messages automatically overwrite the last message received so that AIS equipped vessels are displaying recent information. In select embodiments of the present invention messages could be updated at different intervals e.g. every minute depending on needs of the user.

Refer to a flowchart of a method of employment of select embodiments of the present invention. In select embodiments of the present invention a system comprising suitable sensors communications and one or more processors is procured and installed at a manmade structure proximate a body of water having navigable sections. As noted above the manmade structure may be a lock associated with a dam on an inland waterway. The system may comprise a COTS HADCP unit one or more wind sensors wireless communications including wireless radios based on the IEEE standard 802.11g a VHF radio a PC and custom software and necessary interfaces installed between the various components.

Once installed operations data are collected and archived on the operation of the dam and a determination made as to whether sufficient operations data have been collected and archived to represent all expected variations in operation of the dam . If so these data may be correlated with data collected and archived on outdraft given that sufficient data are determined to have been collected on outdraft at sufficient representative operations cycles of the dam . If sufficient data are available for correlation then this part of the method of employment may be ended . Data thus collected and archived may be used or research investigations and the like.

The abstract of the disclosure is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of some of its embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example although the system is described in specific examples used at inland waterway locks embodiments of the present invention are useful for measuring currents in bays and harbors as well as inlets and outlets to large lakes and water impoundments. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Thus it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

