---

title: Universal media firewall
abstract: A universal media firewall allows a parent to control filtering of multiple media providers via a single firewall policy. The firewall(s) may be a stand-alone device or may be preformed with software on a home computer or at a remote site. Parental controls are accessible by the media provider so that media is filtered according to the parental settings prior to entering the home media network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08166535&OS=08166535&RS=08166535
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08166535
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071010
---
With the increasing amount of media content entering the home parental controls are becoming more prevalent. Currently each media provider whether telephone television or internet must have its own dedicated parental control device which may become ineffective against local users.

Technologies for parental control of internet content exist but they offer limited protection unless the filtering is done by the Internet Service Provider ISP itself. In such a case however customization of the filtered content is difficult.

With regard to television access is often sold in channel packages. In order to obtain a channel that a parent wants he or she may have to also purchase additional channels that he or she may deem inappropriate. Further complicating controlling the content is that some stations broadcast both appropriate and inappropriate content so the parent needs suitable tools to filter inappropriate programming per program. Some cable television providers offer cable boxes that have some parental control features built in but not without limitations. For example each television set would require a separate parental control device requiring each to be individually set up and maintained and requiring synchronization of settings passwords and other user selections.

Of course because each provider requires its own filtering device different commands must be entered for each rendering set up procedures difficult and cumbersome.

Applicants have appreciated that a single parental control interface for controlling a firewall that filters internet television radio cellular telephone and or other media content entering the home would be desirable. Aspects of the invention are directed to such an arrangement. In one embodiment a universal media firewall that runs at the home media perimeter is provided. In this manner the media lines connect to and possibly authenticate with the firewall before they connect to the home network. Parental control settings and authentication credentials are set on the universal media firewall so that content can be filtered before being sent through the home network. In one embodiment users who connect their computers to the home network are not able to bypass parental control settings or clear audit logs. In another embodiment all or portions of the universal firewall are located at a remote site and is accessible by the media provider so as to obtain the parental control data. In this manner media is filtered before being sent to the home. Because the universal media firewall provides is a single interface arrangement it can use the same settings to filter and audit incoming and outgoing television content telephone calls and internet communication.

In one embodiment a parental control arrangement for limiting access to content or communication from a media provider is provided. The arrangement includes a firewall constructed and arranged to be programmed through a single interface by an administrator with desired parental controls for use by a plurality of providers. The parental controls are formatted into a protocol accessible by each provider whereby content or communication supplied by the provider to a media component is filtered according to the parental controls.

In another embodiment a system for limiting access to content or communication from a provider is provided. The system includes a home network having of a plurality of media components adapted to communicate with a corresponding plurality of media providers. The system also includes a firewall constructed and arranged to be programmed through a single interface by an administrator with desired parental controls for use by the plurality of providers. The parental controls are formatted into a protocol accessible by each provider whereby content or communication supplied by the provider to the media component is filtered according to the parental controls.

In yet another embodiment a method for limiting access to content or communication from a provider is provided. The method includes hosting a firewall programmable by a home administrator to set parental controls for a home network and receiving an electronic communication of the parental controls form the home administrator. The method also includes configuring the parental controls into a plurality of formats recognizable by a corresponding plurality of media providers and allowing each media provider to access the formatted parental controls prior to streaming media to the home network.

Aspects of the invention relates to a universal parental control firewall that can filter any form of electronic media that streams into the home. The firewall is arranged such that a single interface is provided whereby a parent administrator can control content from multiple media providers. Although there may be more than one firewall that filters media content in one embodiment a single interface is provided giving the administrator easy control over multiple media providers and or multiple media types. The firewall may be formatted to allow the administrator to perform an audit to determine the effectiveness of the controls and or to determine user compliance. In one embodiment the firewall is located between the communication connections entering the home and the home network. In this manner a single dedicated arrangement is provided that limits the ability to circumvent the filtering controls by users of media components television computers telephone cellular etc. that connect to the media downline of the firewall. In another embodiment the firewall is a virtual firewall located at a remote site that acts to prevent undesired content from entering the home network. Such a virtual firewall will be discussed in more detail below.

It should be appreciated that the term firewall refers to any arrangement s device s or technique s whether implemented in software hardware or multiples thereof. The components of such a firewall can be located closely together or may be remote from one another as the present invention is not limited in this respect.

As mentioned preferably the universal media firewall is the first contact with all media content that is streamed to the home. The core function of the universal media firewall is to filter media content via a parental control policy. As also mentioned the universal media firewall can also function to audit media access. The universal media firewall cooperates with existing Microsoft Internet parental control technologies telephony APIs and Media center guide information to block selected inappropriate cable programming web sites and or known or unidentified incoming telephone calls before it enters the home network. As such in one embodiment the firewall and or firewall interface may act to unify on line policy stores audit logs firewall device APIs for communication with the policy store and the overall administrator experience in managing and or controlling the firewall. The firewall and or firewall interface may act to unify other components as the present invention is not limited in this respect. In addition other suitable parental control technologies may be employed as the present invention is not limited in this respect.

The parental controls may be selected by the parent also referred to as the administrator to meet his or her concerns. That is the parent can select preset levels of filtering depending on the needs of each user or can completely customize filtering as desired. Similarly the firewall can be programmed so that different filtering levels and or customization may be selected for differing media providers. In this manner the level of cable filtering may be different from the level of telephone filtering for example. Furthermore the firewall may allow the parent to set individual credentials so that multiple users on the home network may have differing levels of filtering.

The firewall may also be formatted to allow the parent to set user time limits on one or more of the components such as user time limits on television internet and phone usage. Further the firewall may be formatted to allow telephone messages to be stored on a plurality of answering machines or voice mail systems with each answering machine voice mail system having a predetermined level of protection. That is messages containing material deemed inappropriate for one user of an answering machine voice mail system may be routed to a different user s answering machine voice mail system having a different level of filtering thereby allowing the content to be recorded.

Similarly incoming live phone calls may be routed to a separate telephone extension depending upon the phone number from which the call was made. In this manner pre stored phone numbers may be routed to certain pre selected phone extensions in the home. It should be appreciated that phone service could be in the form of a land line cellular satellite VOIP or other suitable voice communication systems as the present invention is not limited in this regard.

The firewall may be formatted to allow the parent to run an audit to determine compliance. Audit logs can be viewed as per user activity reports.

In one embodiment the firewall requires authentication between the firewall and the media provider to prevent or reduce the chance of bypassing the parental control firewall.

Aspects of the present invention described herein can be implemented in any of numerous arrangements. For example in one embodiment the firewall may be configured as a stand alone device located on the home perimeter so as to filter content before the media enters the home network. In one embodiment the firewall may be configured as software that is installed on the home computer. Media connections would be made to the home computer and the software firewall would act to filter content before the media is sent through the home network. Of course instead of a software package that is installed on the home computer all or portions of the firewall software may reside at a remote location such as a web accessible third party. In this manner the parent would logon to the remote site and manage the firewall settings from the home or other computer. Other suitable arrangements may be employed as the present invention is not limited in this respect.

In one aspect once the parent administrator sets the filtering commands on the firewall the parental control data is made available at a host site where each media provider can access the filtering information and filter content accordingly for that particular home before the media enters the home. In this way the parent need only set the controls for the entire home network and each provider would obtain the control data from a third party s host site. In one aspect this third party may be one of the service providers or may be a different party.

The firewall may be configured in any suitable manner as the present invention is not limited in this respect. In one embodiment a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions may be provided whereby the computer executable instructions is adapted to perform when executed at least portions of the process performed by the firewall as described herein.

Turning now to a home network coupled to various media providers is shown. In home network may include several media components including a home PC a telephone system a cable television entertainment system wireless internet connection and various computers such as laptop . Computer is shown as a laptop however the computer may include any other computing device including a desktop a personal digital assistant a smart phone or any other computing device. Telephone system may include in house wired telephone as well as cellular service and cellular telephones satellite service VOIP etc. that may be included in the home network. Similarly television entertainment system may include any television set connected to a cable source as well as any home entertainment system including subscriber based radio.

Continuing with reference to the home network may be adapted to communicate with various media sources. For example the home network may be adapted to communicate with a cable company offering television radio and or internet. In addition the home network may be adapted to communicate with phone company that is adapted to provide any type of phone service. In addition phone company may be adapted to provide an internet connection through a DSL modem .

Aspects of the invention are directed to a universal media firewall that is adapted to filter various media content entering the home network. Thus as shown in the universal media firewall is located at the perimeter of the home network and is adapted to receive the media connection from the various media providers and filter content before entering the home network.

As discussed above the universal media firewall may be programmed to filter certain content before entering the home. The universal media firewall in one embodiment may be configured to communicate with a home computer so that a parent administrator may access the universal media firewall and control the filtering settings. Thus a parent may enter commands on desktop computer for example in order to control media flow through the universal media firewall . Alternatively the universal media firewall may have its own user interface such that the parental controls may be programmed directly onto the firewall without the need for a computer to access the firewall .

Referring to an alternative embodiment of the universal media firewall will be discussed. In this implementation the universal media firewall is akin to a virtual firewall wherein a user can set the controls at a remote site or location the access to which can be obtained by the media providers. In this regard as shown in a home network may be connected to the internet via an internet service provider . Other media providers such as a television entertainment provider and a voice provider may also be able to communicate with the internet . As shown in a policy store may also communicate with the internet .

In use and as shown in a user creates an account at a remote location as shown at block . The account may include user information including a password and other identifying information as may be necessary. Through a suitable user interface the user can define a control policy as indicated at block . This control policy may thereafter reside on the policy store see . As shown at block any media provider connected with the home network can access the policy store and obtain the control policy previously defined by the home network user. Thus continuing at block any media from any of the media providers that enters the home network will be filtered according to the policy residing at the policy store . In addition to filtering as mentioned the universal media firewall can store compliance information. Accordingly the parent can access a data base and download or view information regarding the usage of the media and the media content entering the home network.

As can be appreciated universal media firewall is not limited to a physical device that can be used on the home network. Rather the universal media firewall can be a virtual firewall residing at a remote site where the administrator can access the universal media firewall and define the requisite parental controls.

In another embodiment the administrator can define a set of controls and upload the information to a firewall provider. Thus rather than have each media provider access the policy store for the parental controls for the given home network the administrator can custom order a physical universal media firewall device and have it shipped to his her house for installation at the perimeter of the home network as indicated above.

Other suitable arrangements for implementing the universal media firewall may be provided as the present invention is not limited in this respect.

Regardless of the specific type of media networks to which the device is connected it may be configured with one or more software components stored in a suitable computer readable medium and adapted to control media traffic entering the home network. Those components may process both incoming and outgoing media network traffic and firewall filtering could apply to incoming traffic or outgoing traffic or both. The media traffic may be in any suitable form which is frequently dictated by the protocol used by the network over which the media traffic is communicated. In some instances media traffic will be in the form of TCP or UDP packets but the specific form of the media traffic is not a limitation on the invention and messages in other suitable forms may be processed according embodiments of the invention.

Device may contain one or more components as is known in the art for processing network traffic. Such components may include network stack . In the embodiment illustrated media traffic passes through network stack . Network stack may be a network stack as is known in the art. However any suitable network stack may be used.

It should be appreciated that the components of the device described herein can be physically integrated into a single device or may be separately wired to form a device as the present invention is not limited in this regard. Similarly all or portions of the components may be implemented in either hardware or software and may reside on a host computer adapted to filter content entering the home network.

Network stack receives outgoing messages from applications A B and C. Here three applications are shown for simplicity but networked computer may contain any number or type of applications.

Network stack interfaces with network adapters A B and C. Each of the network adapters A . . . C provides an interface for a specific media network though more than one adapter may be provided to interface to the same network. Though three network adapters are illustrated in any number or type of network adapters may be used. Each of the network adapters A . . . C may have operating characteristics to support a specific form of media communication and may be implemented as is known in the art or in any other suitable way.

To provide the parental control the device in one embodiment is configured with a software firewall. The software firewall also may contain components as are known in the art. However components of the software firewall may be implemented in any suitable way.

In the embodiment illustrated the software firewall contains a firewall filter enforcement component which may operate to filter media traffic using mechanisms as are known in the art. In the embodiment illustrated firewall filter enforcement component maintains a set of filters specifying for each network adapter A . . . C media that should be passed or blocked. Firewall filter enforcement component interfaces with network stack to apply these filters to traffic passing through stack . As network stack processes the media it interacts with firewall filter enforcement component to determine whether the media should be passed or blocked.

In the embodiment illustrated network stack and firewall filter enforcement component may be contained within the kernel of an operating system for a computer system such as the home computer illustrated in . The filters used by filter enforcement component may be provided from the administrator mode portions of the operating system. The filters may be derived from administrator input or may be derived from execution of scripts or other program elements or otherwise derived in any other suitable way. Regardless of how filters are derived the firewall filters may be provided to firewall filter enforcement component via an administrator mode component. In the embodiment illustrated base filtering engine provides those filters to firewall filter enforcement component . Base filtering engine may be a base filtering engine as in a conventional firewall. However base filtering engine may be implemented in any suitable way.

In the embodiment illustrated base filtering engine receives information defining firewall filters from firewall service . As in a firewall service in some known network computers firewall service may provide one or more interfaces through which firewall rules may be specified. In the embodiment illustrated interface and application programming interface illustrate interfaces through which firewall rules may be specified.

To operate as desired firewall service may interface with a network location awareness component . Network location awareness component may provide information about the network interfaces maintained by the device . Network location awareness component may be implemented using mechanisms as are known in the art and may output for each network interface information about the network that can be accessed through that interface.

Additional information about network interfaces may be obtained through helper API . Helper API may be a component as is known in the art though any suitable implementation may be used. Helper API may be a component configured to interface with network adapters A . . . C installed in device . Through the interface provided by helper API firewall service may obtain additional information about each network interface.

Firewall service may be implemented using technology for implementing a firewall service as is known in the art. However in the embodiment illustrated firewall service is configured to receive input specifying firewall rules based on media type. As one example firewall service may support a set of media types that includes Internet telephone cable or All. 

Firewall rules specified based on media types may otherwise define firewall operation as in prior art firewall rules though any suitable representation of a rule may be used. For example as in some prior art firewalls each rule may specify one or more protocols in which the rule is active. Likewise the rule may specify one or more profiles in which the rule is active. Also the rule may specify an action to be performed by the firewall when the rule is triggered. For example a rule may specify either that message traffic should be blocked or allowed. Other portions of the rule may specify other operating characteristics of the firewall. For example a rule may specify a state for the rule such as enabled or disabled. Additionally rules may be assigned names or other identifiers that allow the rule to be accessed for editing after it is created. All of these characteristic may be specified using mechanisms as known in the art or in any other suitable way.

Regardless of the form in which media type rules are specified each of the rules may be translated into a format that may be processed by other firewall components. In the embodiment illustrated firewall components adapted to apply firewall rules specified based on network interfaces are used. Accordingly the rules specified based on a media type may be translated into one or more rules specifying firewall action based on network interfaces.

Firewall service may convert firewall rules specified for one or more media types to one or more rules applicable to interfaces of the specified media type. Once converted to rules for specific network interfaces the rules may be passed to base filtering engine where they may be processed as in known firewalls or in any other suitable way.

Subprocess begins at loop start . Loop start is the start of a processing loop that is performed for each network adapter installed in computer . In some prior art systems the operating system maintains information about each installed network adapter in a format that may be accessed by other operating system services such as firewall service . However any suitable mechanism may be used to identify the installed network adapters in which the process of is performed.

Regardless of how the installed network adapters are identified processing proceeds to block . At block for the selected network adapter information is obtained about the network interface supported by that adapter. In the embodiment illustrated the information obtained includes an interface type and index. The information obtained at block may be in any suitable form. For example interface type information may be a parameter defined according to a known standard.

The index obtained by processing at block is an example of information that may be used to identify a network interface supported by the network adapter. In the embodiment illustrated the information identifying the interface is in a form that allows communication between firewall filter enforcement component and network stack . In some prior art systems specific interfaces are identified by a Locally Unique Identifier LUID which may be assigned to each interface as it is formed. The LUIDs may be assigned sequentially randomly or in any other suitable form. In some embodiments the locally unique identifier may be a 64 bit number but the specific form of the LUID is not critical to the invention and any suitable form that uniquely identifies an interface may be used. Regardless of how the LUID is assigned it may serve as an index for identifying a specific interface and may also be obtained from a network adapter for the interface.

After information is obtained at block the process continues to decision block . At decision block the process branches depending on whether further network adapters remain for processing. If further network adapters remain subprocess loops back to loop start where the processing at block and decision block is repeated for the next network adapter.

Conversely when all installed network adapters have been processed processing proceeds to block . At block a mapping is constructed to map media types to specific network indexes. Such a mapping is useful in translating rules specified based on media type to rules that are enforced for individual network interfaces.

The mapping created at block may be stored in a data structure or otherwise retained in any other suitable fashion for use in translating rules specified by media type into firewall filters. provides an example of a data structure storing such a mapping. In the embodiment of a data structure is shown stored in computer readable media . Computer readable media may be any suitable media associated with system . Data structure may store information in any suitable form that is useful for performing a mapping between media type and specific network interfaces.

In the embodiment illustrated in data structure is organized with multiple rows. Here three rows A B and C are illustrated. In the embodiment of each row corresponds to one media type. Accordingly the embodiment of a data structure illustrated in corresponds to an embodiment in which three media types have been defined. In the specific example of those media types are Cable Telephone Internet. However the invention is not limited to the specific network types illustrated or to three network types.

Regardless of the specific number or network types defined each row A B or C maps a media type to applicable network interfaces of that type. Taking row C as illustrative the row contains a field C storing a value identifying a network type. In field C stores a value Internet. 

Row C also includes a field C containing information defining network interfaces that are of the type specified by the value in field C. In the embodiment illustrated field C may store multiple values each identifying a network interface. In the embodiment illustrated network interfaces are identified by indexes which are stored in field C. In three network interface indexes LUID 4 LUID 5 and LUID 6 are shown in field C.

In the example of row C shows a mapping between one media type Internet and three network interface indexes LUID 4 LUID 5 and LUID 6. However the number of network interface indexes associated with each media type is not a limitation on the invention. For example row A shows a mapping between one network type and two network interface indexes. Row B shows a mapping between one media type and one network interface index. However zero or more network interface indexes may be mapped to each network interface type with the specific number depending on the network configuration of the device .

In constructing a media type to index mapping at block information about the interface types that correspond to each media type may be employed in conjunction with information obtained at block about the interface types of network interfaces established on device . This information may be processed in any suitable way to construct the data structure . However in the embodiment illustrated a schema is defined mapping interface types to network types. With this schema a media type may be associated with each network interface. The LUID of the network interface may therefore be associated with a specific media type thereby creating a data structure in the form of data structure .

Once a mapping as reflected in data structure is constructed the process of proceeds from block to block . At block the mapping captured in data structure may be used to generate one or more firewall filters based on firewall rules that have been specified based on the media type.

In the embodiment of firewall rules are stored in one or more policy stores of which three policy stores A B and C are illustrated. However any suitable number of policy stores may be used to hold firewall rules. In the embodiment illustrated different policy stores may be used to contain rules applicable to different media.

Regardless of the number and type of policy stores and the number and types of profiles associated with each policy store policy stores A . . . C may provide a set of firewall rules. Some or all of the firewall rules in the policy stores A . . . C may be defined based on a media type to which they are applicable. At block these rules may be translated into network filters using the media type to index mapping constructed at block .

Processing at block may be performed in any suitable way. For example each of the applicable rules in policy stores A . . . C that is specified based on a network type may be translated into a set of rules with one rule for each network interface of the media type defined in the rule. Once rules specified based on media type are translated into rules specified by network interface the rules may thereafter be translated to firewall filters using a mechanism as known in the art or in any other suitable way.

Accordingly once filters are generated at block they may be applied at block . Processing at block may be performed as in software firewalls as is known in the art such as by providing the filters to an enforcement component. However the specific mechanism by which firewall filters are applied is not a limitation on the invention and any suitable mechanism may be employed. Once the filters generated at block are applied at block the firewall within device may operate to selectively block or allow media traffic based on the applicable firewall rules in the applicable policy stores A . . . C.

The rules in policy stores A . . . C may be obtained in any suitable way. As one example an administrator may provide firewall rules through a user interface. As an example illustrates a graphical user interface through which an administrator user may edit or define a firewall rule. The user interface illustrated in includes window that provides an input area through which an administrator may provide input specifying parameters of a firewall rule. Input area may contain one or more control objects that allow the administrator to easily select values for parameters defining the firewall rule. For example control objects are illustrated as radio buttons allowing the administrator to define an action that is performed by the firewall when the rule is applicable. In the example illustrated control objects allow the administrator to indicate whether the media content subject to the rule is blocked or allowed.

Input area may also include other control objects such as control objects which allow the administrator to specify whether the rule is enabled or disabled. Other control objects though not expressly shown in may allow the administrator to specify values for other parameters such as a protocol or profile in which the rule is applicable. Additionally window may contain fields or other objects through which the administrator may input other information defining the rule. For example window may provide a mechanism for the administrator to input a name or other identifying information for the rule.

Window may also contain control objects to administer the rule. In the embodiment illustrated window includes toolbar . Toolbar may contain one or more tools such as tools that allow the administrator to create a new rule or save a rule that has been defined.

Window may also include a mechanism that enables the administrator to associate a media type with a rule being defined. In the embodiment illustrated input area includes a control object . Upon selection of control object dialog box may be presented. In the embodiment illustrated dialog box provides a mechanism through which the administrator may associate one or more media types with a rule.

Dialog box includes an input area through which the administrator may specify one or more media types applicable to the rule being defined in window . In the embodiment illustrated with an enumerated list of media types is presented in input area . In the example of the enumerated network types correspond to those contained in the media type to interface type mapping shown in . The enumerated list presented in input area may contain any number of entries as the present invention is not limited in this regard. Further it is not a requirement that the number or kinds of media types identified be static. For example one or more interfaces could be provided to allow specification of media types and associated interface types. Such a feature could be supported for example with a tool that expands the data structure storing schema in response to input from a user a program or other suitable source.

Regardless of the number and kinds of media types depicted in input area the administrator may select one or more of the media types using control objects such as control objects A B or C. In the embodiment illustrated control objects A . . . C are check box control objects allowing the administrator to specify one or more media types applicable to a rule being defined.

Additionally dialog box contains button control object . Button control object allows the administrator to specify that a rule is applicable to all media types.

Other control objects in dialog box may allow other actions associated with specifying a media type applicable to a rule to be preformed. For example button when selected records the information input through dialog box . Conversely button cancels the input provided through dialog box and returns the administrator to window .

The graphical user interface of represents just one example of an interface through which the administrator may specify a firewall rule with an associated media type or types applicable for that rule. An alternative example of an interface might be a simple command line prompt as shown in as the present invention is not limited in this respect.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment of this invention it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art.

Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

Further it should be appreciated that a computer system and or the firewall may be embodied in any of a number of forms such as a rack mounted computer a desktop computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Additionally a computer system and or the firewall may be embedded in a device not generally regarded as a computer but with suitable processing capabilities including a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone or any other suitable portable or fixed electronic device.

Also the computer system and or firewall may have one or more input and output devices. These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example the computer system and or firewall may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or conventional programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect the invention may be embodied as a computer readable medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices etc. encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more communication devices computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. The computer readable medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a communication device computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a single firewall device computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different devices computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various aspects of the present invention may be used alone in combination or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any manner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also the invention may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

