---

title: Application and data agnostic collaboration services
abstract: Various embodiments herein include one or more of systems, methods, software, and data structures to create collaboration enabled client applications. In some embodiments, web services are provided on one or more servers that may be called by processes within client applications to facilitate collaboration within a workspace, such as directly within a computer application. Some such web services are application and data agnostic meaning that such web services are not aware of or do not care where application collaboration service calls come from, what their destination application is, or what data is being communicated. These web services, in some such embodiments, just must be properly called by an authorized user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178957&OS=09178957&RS=09178957
owner: ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
number: 09178957
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---
Use of network hosted conferencing such as over the Internet has grown considerably in recent years. There are many products on the market that allow a presenter to share views and audio over a central server with many conference participants. Some of these products may also be used in a collaborative environment such as between members of a development team. In such instances control of a computer or computer application on one computer may be shared over a network with other users. Such products offer such functionally in a very similar manner through a server that requires a standalone client software application on each computer of each participant. Such client software is tightly coupled to a server that receives data from one client and distributes the data other participating clients. The client software is typically created and distributed by the same developer of the server software to prevent compatibility and security issues between the client and server software.

Although current network hosted conferencing and collaboration tools provide many options the utility of a conference is limited by such tools. These tools generally fail to allow embedding of collaboration abilities within applications and web pages sites. For example if a first user wishes to share a view of an application with a second remote user both first and second users must launch a conferencing or collaboration specific application or website and the first user must designate which application to share. The communication of data between users must be made in a format that may be understood by processes of a central server. Further communication between the first user and the second remote user is typically limited to image based screen shares.

Some of the various embodiments as described herein provide systems methods software and data structures that enable application and data agnostic collaboration services. Some such application and data agnostic collaboration services allow embedding of collaboration services within applications to remove the need for use of separate conferencing or collaboration applications. These embodiments and others may provide such services by decoupling client server communication from client specific applications and allowing such communications to be made through web service calls to services offered by a server. In some embodiments data may be communicated between client applications in a format that is not understood by the server but rather is specific to the applications connected to a collaboration session. Some embodiments may also include collaboration tools embedded within applications from a set of developer tools operative with a collaboration server. These and other embodiments are described in detail below.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to limit the scope of this disclosure to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In some embodiments the collaboration services when called or otherwise utilized may consume manipulate create or store data. This data may stored on the server on another server in a database or in another data storage location. In some embodiments this data may include data identifying authorized users user or organizational collaboration service subscription and usage information configuration settings and other data that may be consumed manipulated created or stored during operation of one or more of the collaboration services .

The collaboration services divide functionality of collaboration applications to allow other applications to leverage collaboration functionality. This provides the potential to develop any number of different kinds of client applications that all rely on the same collaboration services . Accordingly a developer may conveniently add new features to a client leveraging a provided set of collaboration services . For example one embodiment may expose streaming audio video data messaging and presence user identity roles and the like as services that may be leveraged by client applications.

In addition as mentioned above previous collaboration applications required that everything performed by a server be tightly bound to one specific client. To the contrary some embodiments may include a cloud of servers dedicated to provisioning of collaboration services which may host collaboration rooms or sessions of virtually any client. Further any number of variations and types of clients may be specifically built and embedded within other applications such as a graphics editing application a page description language view application a word processing application and other typical stand alone application types. Some embodiments may also include provisioning of collaboration services within websites allowing collaboration between team members communication between a customer and merchant buyer and seller teacher and student friends and family and others. Thus although termed collaboration services the use of such services is not so limited. The collaboration services are communication tools that may be embedded within applications websites and other codes having a capability to call and utilize web services or other objects providing the collaboration services .

Some embodiments may be realized with respect to two parts. Firstly one or more servers may be dedicated in whole or in part may be refactored from working with a specific application to working with any kind of real time client collaboration application. Secondly client applications may be componentized. For example clients may be broken down so that any developer who wants to build a real time collaboration application can reutilize the specific client components and include these components into client applications or merge them into unique client applications. By mixing and matching client components which know how to speak directly to a set of services a developer may build multiple variations of client applications that enable real time collaboration or other communication. Client side components such as webcam rosters shared whiteboards text based chat and the like are provided to developers. Each of such components rely on their specific and dedicated web service for the respective component type.

Some such embodiments provide a developer kit of controls or tools that may be embedded within client applications and configured to communicate with the services on one or more servers . Some embodiments such as web based embodiments and some stand alone application embodiments may include code that invokes a client plug in such as the Adobe Flash player available from Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. or other runtime client.

The client system typically operates in a networked environment using the communication connection to connect to one or more remote computers such as one or more servers offering collaborative services that enable collaboration between client system and other remote computers. The remote computers may include one or more of a personal computer PC server router network PC a peer device or other common network node and the like. The communication connection may include a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN the Internet a Virtual Private Network VPN a peer to peer network or other networks.

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the client system . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a computer readable medium. For example a computer program implementing collaboration services of a collaboration server by capturing one or more of data gestures video audio and the like within the computer application or on the client system and transmitting the captured data to a collaboration server utilizing web service calls. The collaboration server may then replicate the data and send the data to one or more remote computers. The computer program may also receive such data from the collaboration server the data originating on one or more remote computers. Upon receipt of data from the collaboration server the data is parsed to identify a portion of the application to which the data pertains and then the data is evaluated to determine what to do. This may include replicating a computer program action represented in the data replicating data opening an audio or video stream playing audio or video data replicating a gesture action with a gesture tool such as a mouse or other action or data modification deletion creation or insertion. In some embodiments the computer application leverages functionality of a plug in to perform one or more functions such as capturing outputting encoding and or decoding collaboration data. As mentioned above the plug in may be the Adobe Flash player. However in other embodiments the plug in may be a custom developed piece of software developed to implement one or more services offered by a collaboration server.

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the server system . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium in an example embodiment may include one or more service modules that are operable to provide collaboration services such as web services to client collaboration applications. In typical embodiments the collaboration service modules are application and data agnostic meaning that the collaboration service modules allow any application to call the collaboration services and the collaboration services may be a conduit for transmission of any data so long as an appropriate collaboration service is utilized. For example a client application may be developed to utilize a general collaboration service. The general collaboration service may only require that data received from a first client collaboration application to be broadcast to one or more other client collaboration applications include a minimal amount of specific data when the service is called and all other data included in the service call is just broadcast to the other client collaboration applications. Further the collaboration services may only require that they be called in a particular manner such as a proper formatting of the service calls and do not require that they be called by a particular client program. As a result any client application may utilize the services of the service modules to collaborate with virtually any type of data the client applications may utilize. and its description below provides detail as to the services modules that may be available in some embodiments.

A collaboration server such as server system of typically provides several collaboration services. These collaboration services may implemented through service modules which may be objects programs application programming interfaces or other units of software. In some embodiments each service is embodied in a single module. In other embodiments multiple services are embodied in a single module. Combinations of services within modules may be made based on a class of functionality such as by the type of data communicated through the module the type of communication such as inbound or outbound or in virtually any other manner. However in other embodiments a single service module may include a single service that is entirely data and application agnostic. Thus although the service modules are described below as providing certain services these services may be provided in a single module a few modules or many modules. The name given to the particular module in the following description is given merely to describe the type of functionality the particular service module is provided for and is not intended to limit modules within which services may be included.

The service modules may include modules to implement functionality such as roster chat polling notes screen sharing web cam or other streaming video shared white board file transfer transfer of data to enable peer to peer P2P communication between two or more client applications audio and visual general data transfer gesture tool such as a pointing device or cursor user interface controls administration and others depending on the embodiment. In some embodiments the service modules may be downloaded by a client to implement the functionality of the service module on the client. In such embodiments the service modules include client side logic to handle data that may be communicated via the collaboration server system .

A roster service module in some embodiments offers services to identify collaboration session participants and present participant information in a roster type control on one or more client collaboration applications connected to a collaboration session. The roster module may also provide services to identify and implement roles of one or more collaboration session participants such as organizer presenter administer participant and the like. Such roles may be declared using administrative services of the administration module.

The administration module may also be used to create or schedule a collaboration session authorize participants of a collaboration session modify or create participant roles and permissions declare a collaboration session as closed to a finite number of participants certain participants or publicly available.

The chat service module typically provides services that enable text based chat between collaboration session participants. In some embodiments the chat services may allow a participant to send a chat message to less than all of the other participants if desired. In some embodiments based on a permissions of a certain role as declared in the administration service module messages of a particular participant may be blocked from transmission to other participants such as in the event the block participant is abusing the chat functionality. Chat messages may also be sent to an administrator for approval prior to communication to other collaboration session participants.

The polling service module typically allows one participant to set up a poll for other participants to answer. The polling service module may then collect the results of the poll and present them to the creator. The polling results may also be shared with one or more other participants.

The note service module typically provides services that allow transmission of a note to one or more other participants. This may include a text block placed as a control on a certain portion of a shared screen view. The Screen share service module provides services to share a screen view of one client application with other participants. The screen share services may also allow sharing control of the screen such as allowing one or more other participants to provide input via a keyboard and pointing device.

The web cam service module typically provides services to share streaming video between collaboration session participants. In some embodiments use of the web cam service module services may be configured through services of one or more of the administration and web cam service modules to limit the number of shared video streams or allow only a presenter s video stream to be displayed. A shared video stream may also include audio.

The white board service module provides services to receive and share whiteboard type input. Whiteboard input typically includes drawings made within a virtual whiteboard. As with the streaming video services described above use of the whiteboard services may be limited to only a presenter and or other roles.

The file transfer service module typically includes services that allow one collaboration session participant to upload a file and transfer the file to all or a select number of other participants. For example a file may be uploaded and designated for transmission to one or more specific participants based on identity data from the roster service module participants having a particular role or permission level participants in a certain department or geographic location based on data which may be stored in a location accessible to a client collaboration application or accessible by a service module service or based on other criteria.

The P2P service module includes services to facilitate exchange of network connectivity data between two or more users to establish a peer to peer communication connection between the users over a network. In some such embodiments once the network connectivity data has been exchanged utilizing a service of the P2P service module two or more client collaboration applications may exchange collaboration data directly with one another. In some such embodiments a collaboration session may then be conducted in whole or in part in a P2P fashion.

The audio visual service module includes services to exchange audio video and combined audio and video such as in streams between collaboration session participants. In some embodiments the audio and video services may be unidirectional meaning that audio and video of only one participant is shared at a time as set utilizing one or more services of the audio visual or administration service modules. The audio services in some embodiments may include Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP services. Audio and visual data may also be administered to be shared only by or with certain individual participants or participants having a particular role.

The gesture tool service module may include services to share gestures made by participants with a pointing device such as a mouse a cursor within an application a highlighting tool or other gesturing device. The user interface controls service module may include services that are specific to certain user interface controls. In some embodiments user interface control services identify a particular control within client collaboration applications and an action with regard to that control such as has focus clicked typed text submit or other action.

The data service module includes services to allow exchange of free form data between collaboration applications. Such services are data and application agnostic meaning that the data service module does not process the service calls to verify the data came from a specific type of application or that the data is of a particular type or in a particular format. These services merely require that the service be called or invoked in a proper manner. Such services allow application developers to create customized application elements and share data in a collaborative fashion between the elements. Such application elements may include elements that capture data within applications that is to be shared with collaboration session participants. Such data may include text from documents numeric data from spreadsheets data indicative of actions performed within an application or other data within virtually any other application. In some embodiments the data services may be embedded within an application in a manner that is not visible or otherwise apparent to a user. This data once captured may be transmitted using the services of the data service module and communicated to other participants. The other participants receive this data and the application will handle the data as specified by a developer of the application. Thus using the services of the data service module custom applications may be developed with customized collaboration features to capture data and actions and receive and process or display those actions within application instances of collaboration session participants.

Note that in some embodiments the applications of collaboration session participants are not required to be identical applications. What is required is that the respective applications of the participants be enabled to communicate utilizing the services of the service modules of the server system illustrated and described with regard to and .

In some embodiments of the method receiving the request from the client application to establish the collaboration session includes receiving a first web service call from the client application to establish the collaboration session and receiving a second web service call to authorize one or more other users to participate in the collaboration session. Such embodiments may further include receiving one or more third web service calls to designate permissions of the one or more other users authorized to participate in the collaboration session.

In some embodiments of the method the collaboration session facilitates collaboration between client applications through a set of web services including functionality and data specific web services and one or more data agnostic web services. The one or more data agnostic web services when called may receive data from a client application participating in the collaboration session. A called web service may then forward the data to one or more other client applications participating in the respective collaboration session.

Some further embodiments may include a system having a server. The server may include a set of collaboration service modules operable to provide services of the collaboration service modules over a network interface such as a network interface card. The collaboration service modules are typically operable to provide one or more of user identity role and permission and presence services and one or more services to share client application data between applications of two or more clients authorized to utilize the services. At least one collaboration service may be operable to receive data from a first user and serve the data to at least a second user over the network interface without regard to the type of data or an application of the first user from which the data is received. Additional collaboration service modules may be operable to provide one or more of audio and video sharing services text based messaging services between two or more users shared whiteboard services collaboration session or room management services operable to allow a meeting organizer to create and administer settings of a networked based conference. Some of these embodiments and others may also include roster services that provide a listing to one or more users of all users connected to the server or to a particular collaboration session. Some embodiments of the server may also provide file transfer services to facilitate transfer of an electronic data file from one user to one or more other users connected to the server such as one or more users participating in a particular collaboration session.

In some embodiments the room management services allow a meeting organizer to define policies such as policies that may authorize users to connect to a network based conference and designate permissions of the authorized users. Permissions of authorized users in some such embodiments may be set on a service based level to allow or prevent utilization of services of the collaboration service modules individually or as a whole. In some embodiments a user is a human user of a collaboration service enabled client application. However a user need not be a human user. The collaboration services offered by a server may be leveraged by processes within an interactive server such as a web server or other interactive computing process. In such embodiments the collaboration services may be utilized as middleware messaging services. In some embodiments the policies a meeting organizer or other designated administrator may define or modify policies regarding how data of a networked based conference is stored. Such policies may cause a networked based conference data to be made available across multiple session be merely transient and not logged or stored persisted during a conference or for a period and then deleted recorded and stored indefinitely or other duration which may be desired and specified in a policy.

Some embodiments include a system having a local application including instructions to establish and maintain a network connection with one or more remote applications for exchanging data. Such embodiments typically include establishing and maintain the network communication connections via calls of one or more services offered by one or more collaboration servers without regard to the type of exchanged data or local or remote applications. The local application and the one or more remote applications may be separate instances of the same application. The local application and the one or more remote applications may each include one or more collaboration tools embedded therein such as a shared whiteboard module chat module or module that may be needed to communicate with one or more of the services. In some embodiments one or more elements collaboration tools such as a shared whiteboard chat window roster and the like may be included within a plug in that may be called by a collaboration enabled application.

In some embodiments data exchanged between a collaboration enabled client application and a collaboration server may be communicated in a data structure. The data structure in one embodiment may include a wrapper portion identifying a web service being called or otherwise being utilized such as a data agnostic web service. The data structure may further include a data portion. The data portion may include data identifying a collaboration session for which the data structure pertains and a web service data portion holding data that to be distributed by the called collaboration web server to other participants of the collaboration session or to be displayed or otherwise processed by the collaboration enabled applications of the other participants. In some embodiments the web service data portion holds free form data including data from an originating client application to be communicated to other participant client applications of the collaboration session. The free form data may be data of a custom developed collaboration tool included within collaboration enabled client applications. The data portion may further include data identifying a user of the originating client application.

It is emphasized that the Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment to streamline the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the inventive subject matter require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

