---

title: Systems and methods for temporary media file storage on a wireless communication device
abstract: Methods, devices, computer program products, processors and wireless networks are presented that provide for temporary storage of media content on a wireless communication device. According to aspects, when a wireless communication device requests media content from a media content service but is unable to receive the media due to insufficient memory availability, insufficient wireless network signal strength or another delivery attribute, the media content service automatically re-directs delivery of the content to the associated temporary storage wireless communication device. In turn, the wireless device that requested the media content is able to automatically retrieve the media content from the temporary storage device when memory capacity or network signal strength is deemed sufficient to provide for storage or reception.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08284714&OS=08284714&RS=08284714
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08284714
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070125
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 837 181 entitled Using A Wireless Device as a Server filed Aug. 10 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosed aspects relate to wireless communication devices and more particularly to methods and apparatus for providing temporary storage of media file on a wireless communication device for subsequent delivery to another wireless communication device through an automated or manual data delivery re direction process.

Wireless communication devices have become a prevalent means by which majorities of people worldwide have come to communicate. Wireless communication devices have become smaller and more powerful in order to meet consumer needs and to improve portability and convenience. The increase in processing power in wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones has lead to an increase in demands on wireless network transmission systems. As wireless communication device capabilities expand adaptive capabilities of such wireless communication devices become possible.

Many wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones are currently equipped with the capability to execute i.e. play media files such as music files video files multimedia files and the like. These media files are typically large in terms of storage size and thus if stored locally at the wireless device require an appropriate amount of memory capacity. The need for increased memory capacity becomes more of a concern if the user desires to store multiple media files locally at the wireless device.

While many current high end wireless communication devices are being marketed with increased memory capacity upwards of 1 gigabyte GB to 60 GB many lower end wireless communication devices are not equipped with memory capacity that allows for the storage of numerous media files. These lower end wireless communication devices still serve a need in the marketplace especially in developing counties in which the general populous are in need of wireless communication services but are unable to afford high end devices. Thus a problem exists related to how to provide media content services to wireless communication devices that have limited storage capacity.

Additionally regardless of the memory capacity of the wireless device users of such devices have a tendency to exhaust as much memory as the device provides by acquiring and storing media files. This results in the inability of the device to download or otherwise acquire additional media files without removing some of the existing files from the device s memory. Typically the user of the device is unaware that the memory capacity is full or close to full until they attempt to download a desired media file and an error message is presented alerting the user that the download function is prevented from being executed due to limited storage capacity. Unless the user chooses to immediately remove one or more files from the device s memory the user will be unable to acquire download the desired media file.

In addition to storage related problems the wireless downloading of media files can be problematic because of the relatively large size of the files and the inconsistencies evident in the wireless network. If the user attempting to download a media file is located at the periphery of the wireless network coverage boundaries or if the wireless network signal strength is otherwise insufficiently low the wireless device may be unable to successfully execute the download process. This problem is heightened in low end wireless communication devices that typically have minimal processing capabilities minimal power and thus are prone to experiencing poor network signal strength problems that leads to disconnections during the prolonged download session. The complexity of the problems is even compounded further when such a device is operating on a legacy network with low data transmission rates.

Therefore a need exists to develop systems and methods for temporary storage of media files in a wireless communication device. The desired temporary storage should be capable of temporarily storing media files that are requested by a wireless device but are unable to be wirelessly delivered to the device because of insufficient memory capacity or insufficient wireless network signal strength. In addition the desired temporary storage system should provide for the automatic delivery of the media files from the temporary storage to the requesting wireless device when the memory capacity and or the network signal strength is sufficient to allow the requesting wireless device to receive and store the media file. In addition the desired temporary storage system should provide for an easily identifiable temporary storage unit such that the temporary storage unit can readily be assigned to delivery of media files requested by a wireless communication device.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented infra.

Thus methods devices and apparatus are presented that provide for temporary storage of media files on a wireless communication device. According to aspects wireless communication devices may be associated with one or more designated temporary storage wireless communication devices. As such when a wireless communication device requests media content from a media content service but is unable to receive the media due to insufficient memory availability insufficient wireless network signal strength or another delivery attribute the media content service directs delivery of the content to the associated temporary storage wireless communication device. In turn the wireless device that requested the media content is able to automatically retrieve the media content from the temporary storage device when memory capacity or network signal strength is deemed sufficient to provide for storage or reception. Thus present aspects provide for low end wireless device that typically have low power and minimal storage capacity to experience media content play on their devices even though their devices pose problems in terms of downloading media content files from the network and storing multiple media content files. The mobile nature of the temporary storage wireless communication device provides for alternate means of delivering and downloading the media content files from the temporary storage device to the requested wireless communication devices. For example the devices may transfer the files using peer to peer wireless communication Universal Serial Bus USB transfer removable flash memory or the like.

According to one aspect a method for temporary storage of a media content file on a wireless device is defined. The method includes requesting at a first wireless communication device wireless communication of a media content file from a media content service and directing the media content service to communicate the media content file to a second wireless communication device for temporary storage and subsequent retrieval by the first wireless communication device based on current insufficiency of at least one delivery attribute. The delivery attribute may include available memory at the first wireless communication device wireless network signal strength or any other attribute that prevents the delivery or downloading of the media content file on the first wireless communication device. The method may also include identifying the second wireless communication in the media content request sent from the first wireless communication device to the media content service or identifying the second wireless communication device by accessing a first wireless communication device profile stored in relation to the media content service.

The method may additionally include for the automatic delivery of the temporarily stored media content file from the second wireless communication device to the first wireless communication device once the delivery attribute that prompted temporary storage is found to be sufficient. In one aspect automatic delivery to the first wireless communication device may include monitoring at the first wireless communication device the available memory amount and requesting the second wireless communication device to communicate the media content file to the first wireless communication device when the available first wireless communication device memory equals or exceeds media content file size or when the network signal strength is sufficient to provide for delivery. In an alternate aspect automatic delivery to the first wireless communication device may include requesting continually the second communication device to communicate the media file to the wireless communication device and receiving at the first wireless device the media content file from the second wireless device when the available memory amount is equal to or exceeds media content file size when the network signal strength is sufficient to provide for downloading or when any other delivery attribute that prompted temporary storage is found to be sufficient. The first and second wireless communication devices may communicate via peer to peer wireless communication such that transfer of the media content file from the second device to the first device occurs via peer to peer communication.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of requesting at a first wireless communication device wireless communication of a media content file from a media content service and directing the media content service to communicate the media content file to a second wireless communication device for temporary storage and subsequent retrieval by the first wireless communication device based on current insufficiency of at least one delivery attribute.

Another related aspect is defined by a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer at a first wireless communication device to request a wireless communication of a media content file from a media content service and a second set of codes for causing the computer to direct the media content service to communicate the media content file to a second wireless communication device for temporary storage and subsequent retrieval by the first wireless communication device based on current insufficiency of at least one delivery attribute.

A further aspect is provided for by a wireless communication device that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory and a media content module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The media content module is operable to generate and wirelessly transmit a service content request to a media content service. The media content module is also operable to direct the media content service to communicate the media content file to a second wireless communication device based on current insufficiency of at least one delivery attribute and retrieve the media content file from the second wireless communication device based on subsequent sufficiency of the at least one delivery attribute. The delivery attribute may be defined as available memory capacity at the first wireless communication device wireless network signal strength at the first wireless communication device and any other attribute that prevents delivery or download of the media content file. As such the media content module may also be operable to determine if the available memory amount is less than the predetermined media content file size or if the wireless network signal strength meets a predetermined delivery threshold signal strength.

In some aspects the wireless communication device may include a peer to peer communication module operable to retrieve the media content file from the second wireless communication device. The communication module may be operable to request the second wireless communication device to communicate the media content file to the first wireless communication device when the previous insufficient delivery attributed is determined to be sufficient. Alternatively the communication module may request continually the second communication device to communicate the media file to the wireless communication device once the second wireless device has received the media content file.

In some aspects of the device the media content request may include a second wireless device identifier that is operable to direct delivery of the predetermined media content file to a second wireless communication device corresponding to the second wireless communication device identifier based on insufficiency of at least one delivery attribute. Alternatively the media content module may further be operable to generate and wirelessly transmit an alternate delivery destination request to the media content service that includes the second wireless communication device identifier. The media content module may further be operable to monitor the delivery attribute after the media content service has been directed to communicate the media content file to a second wireless communication device based.

A related aspect is provided for by a wireless communication device that includes a means for requesting at a first wireless communication device wireless communication of a media content file from a media content service and a means for directing the media content service to communicate the media content file to a second wireless communication device for temporary storage and subsequent retrieval by the first wireless communication device based on current insufficiency of at least one delivery attribute.

Yet another aspect is provided for by a method for temporary storage of a media content file. The method includes receiving at a first wireless communication device a media content file delivered from a media content service wherein receipt of the media content file by the first wireless communication device is based on an insufficient delivery attribute associated with a media content request generated by a second wireless communication device storing the media content file at the first wireless communication device and communicating the media content file to the second wireless communication in response to a prompt from the second wireless device. The delivery attribute may include available memory amount at the second wireless communication device wireless network signal strength at the second wireless communication device or any other attribute that prevents delivery download of the media file at the second wireless communication device. Communicating the media content file to the second wireless device may involve communicating the media content file to the second wireless communication device repeatedly in response to continuous prompts from the second wireless device until the communication is successfully received at the second wireless communication device or alternatively communicating the media content file to the second wireless communication in response to a prompt from the second wireless device where the prompt is based on sufficiency of one or more delivery attributes at the second wireless communication device.

A related aspect is provided for by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of receiving at a first wireless communication device a media content file delivered from a media content service such that receipt of the media content file by the first wireless communication device is based on an insufficient delivery attribute associated with a media content request generated by a second wireless communication device storing the media content file at the first wireless communication device and communicating the media content file to the second wireless communication in response to a prompt from the second wireless device.

A further related aspect is defined by a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer at a first wireless communication device to receive a media content file delivered from a media content service such that receipt of the media content file by the first wireless communication device is based on an insufficient delivery attribute associated with a media content request generated by a second wireless communication device. The computer readable medium further includes a second set of codes for causing the computer to store the media content file at the first wireless communication device and a third set of codes for causing the computer to communicate the media content file to the second wireless communication in response to a prompt from the second wireless device.

Another aspect is provided for by a wireless communication device that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The memory is operable to store a media content file which has been delivered from a media content service based on an insufficient delivery attribute associated with a media content request generated by a second wireless communication device. The wireless communication device also includes a communications module executable by the processor and operable to communicate the media file to the secondary wireless communication device in response to a prompt from the second wireless device. The delivery attribute being defined as available memory amount at the second wireless communication device wireless network signal strength at the second wireless communication device or any other attribute that prevents delivery download of the media content file at the second wireless communication device. The communications module may further be operable to communicate the media content file to the second wireless communication device repeatedly in response to continuous prompts from the second wireless device until the communication is successfully received at the second wireless communication device or alternatively operable to communicate the media content file to the second wireless communication in response to a prompt from the second wireless device wherein the prompt is based on sufficiency of one or more delivery attributes at the second wireless communication device.

Another related aspect is defined by a wireless communication device that includes means for receiving at a first wireless communication device a media content file delivered from a media content service such that receipt of the media content file by the first wireless communication device is based on an insufficient delivery attribute associated with media content request generated by a second wireless communication device means for storing the media content file at the first wireless communication device and means for communicating the media content file to the second wireless communication in response to a prompt from the second wireless device.

A further aspect is defined by a method for temporary media content storage. The method includes receiving a media service request for media content file from a first wireless communication device determining that the first wireless communication device is unable to currently receive delivery due to an insufficient delivery attribute identifying a second wireless communication device as a temporary storage device for the first wireless communication device and communicating the media content file to the second wireless communication device. The delivery attribute may be available memory amount at the first wireless communication device wireless network signal strength at the first wireless communication device or any other attribute that prevents delivery download at the first wireless communication device. The method may further include acknowledging receipt of one or more error message received from the first wireless communication device in response to sending the media content file to the first wireless communication device.

A related aspect is provided for by at least one processor configured to perform the actions receiving a media service request for media content file from a first wireless communication device determining that the first wireless communication device is unable to currently receive delivery due to an insufficient delivery attribute identifying a second wireless communication device as a temporary storage device for the first wireless communication device and communicating the media content file to the second wireless communication device.

An alternate aspect is provided for by a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a media service request for media content file from a first wireless communication device. The computer readable medium further includes a second set of codes for causing the computer to determine that the first wireless communication device is unable to currently receive delivery due to an insufficient delivery attribute. Additionally the computer readable medium further includes a third set of codes for causing the computer to identify a second wireless communication device as a temporary storage device for the first wireless communication device and a fourth set of codes for causing the computer to communicate the media content file to the second wireless communication device.

Yet another aspect is defined by a network device that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory and a media content delivery service module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The media content delivery module is operable to receive a media service request for a media content file from a first wireless communication device determine that the first wireless communication device is unable to currently receive delivery due to an insufficient delivery attribute identify a second wireless communication device as a temporary storage device for the first wireless communication device and communicate the media content file to the second wireless communication device. The delivery attribute may include available memory amount at the first wireless communication device wireless network signal strength at the first wireless communication device or any other attribute that prevents delivery download at the first wireless communication device. The media content delivery service module may further be operable to acknowledge receipt of one or more error messages received from the first wireless communication device in response to sending the media content file to the first wireless communication device.

A related aspect is provided for by a network device that includes means for receiving a media service request for media content file from a first wireless communication device means for determining that the first wireless communication device is unable to currently receive delivery due to an insufficient delivery attribute means for identifying a second wireless communication device as a temporary storage device for the first wireless communication device and means for communicating the media content file to the second wireless communication device.

Thus present aspects provide for methods devices computer program products and processors that provide for temporary storage of media content on a wireless communication device. As such when a wireless communication device requests media content from a media content service but is unable to receive the media due to insufficient memory availability insufficient wireless network signal strength or another delivery attribute the media content service directs delivery of the content to the associated temporary storage wireless communication device. In turn the wireless device that requested the media content is able to automatically retrieve the media content from the temporary storage device when memory capacity or network signal strength is deemed sufficient to provide for storage or reception.

The present devices apparatus methods computer program products and processors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. These aspects may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The various aspects are described herein in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

Present aspects provide for temporary storage of media content files at a wireless device and the subsequent delivery of the files to a wireless device that requested or otherwise desires access to the files. As such the temporary storage wireless communication devices acts a server for the wireless devices that rely on the device for storage. The mobile nature of the temporary storage wireless communication device provides needed benefits to wireless communication devices in general especially low end wireless communication devices.

Low end cellular telephones may have the capability to execute i.e. play media content files such as music files or video files but are limited in terms of processing power and storage capacity. In these exemplary devices minimal storage capacity typically prevents the device from storing a large amount of media content files which are typically large in terms of storage size. Additionally the low power nature of these devices results in prolonged delivery download times which due to the size of the media content files and the unreliability of the wireless network often result in unsuccessful delivery download of media content files.

Conventional wireless network servers used in the industry today are stationary web servers that are located at a fixed location and serve a number of mobile devices through one of more stationary cell towers. As a result a community of users located at the fringe of the network may receive very poor signals especially those with low end low power devices and as a result they may not be able to maintain communication with the central server over a long period of time to download full length movies songs or other large multimedia files. In present aspects the mobile nature of the temporary storage wireless communication device provides these low end devices an alternate means for delivery downloading the files.

According to one aspect requested media files are delivered downloaded to the temporary storage wireless communication device as opposed to the device that requested the files. In many instances the temporary storage wireless device may be a higher end device characterized by greater processing power and larger memory capacity. Thus in many applications the mobile wireless device may be better equipped to download the media content or receive stronger signals if the temporary storage wireless device is closer in proximity to the delivering cell tower s . Additionally the larger storage capacity that is typically provided for by higher end wireless communication devices allows for the storage of many more media content files than would be afforded the low end small memory devices.

In application once the temporary storage wireless device has obtained the media files delivery to the device that originally requested the content can occur either when the requesting device has cleared enough memory space to accommodate the file or when the wireless signal between the requesting device and the temporary storage wireless device is strong enough to accommodate delivery download. In some aspects the requesting devices and the temporary storage devices may be equipped with peer to peer wireless communication capabilities which allow for direct wireless device to wireless device communication of the media files.

In many instances the wireless devices that are requiring the temporary storage wireless devices to store information are associated with the device. For example one member of a family workplace organization or the like may utilize the temporary storage wireless device while other members of the family workplace organization may utilize the devices that rely on the temporary storage wireless device for temporary storage. This example takes into account that in most instances awareness and authorization on the part of the temporary storage wireless device will be required prior to having other devices rely of the temporary storage wireless device for temporary storage purposes. This association between the wireless devices requiring temporary storage and the wireless device providing the temporary storage typically means that the devices will at some point in time be close in proximity to one another which further addresses shortcomings in signal strength and provides further for ease in delivery download between the temporary storage wireless device and the device requiring temporary storage.

Referring to a schematic representation of a system for temporary storage of media content at a wireless device is depicted. The system includes one or more first wireless communication devices also referred to herein as the requesting devices or child devices a network device such as a media content service server and a second wireless communication device also referred to herein as the temporary storage device or the parent device. The second wireless communication device is an illustration of a wireless device acting as a mobile server that temporarily stores media content for a community of first wireless devices in accordance with an aspect. As such the second wireless communication devices act as mobile servers that temporarily store media content files requested by the first wireless communication device.

The first wireless communication devices are in wireless communication via wireless network with network device . Network device is characteristically a media content service server that has access to a plurality of media content files which may be stored locally at network device or remotely at one or more network databases that in wired or wireless communication with the network device. Network device is operable to receive media content file requests such as requests for audio music files video files and or multimedia files from the one or more wireless devices .

The network device is in wireless communication via wireless network with second wireless communication device . Network device is operable to direct the delivery of media content files which have been requested by wireless communication devices to second communication device for temporary storage of the media content file. Typically direction of the delivery of the media content files to the second wireless communication device is precipitated by the existence of an insufficient delivery attribute at the first wireless communication device. Examples of delivery attributes may include available memory capacity wireless network signal strength or any other attribute that affects delivery download at the first wireless device.

The second wireless communication device may be in wireless communication via peer to peer wireless network with the one or more first wireless communication devices. First wireless communication devices may be operable to automatically retrieve the temporarily stored media content files from the second wireless communication device when the network attribute that originally prevented delivery to the first wireless communication device is determined to be sufficient to allow for delivery download.

The first wireless communication device also referred to herein as the media requesting device or the child device includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor . The memory includes a media content module player that is operable for generating media content requests at the direction of the device user. The media content requests are wirelessly communicated to network device via communication module . In some aspects the media content requests may include a temporary storage wireless communication device identifier which provides notification to the network device of a specific temporary storage wireless device such as device to direct delivery download of the media content file. For example the media content requests may be communicated via an uplink connection through http hyper text transfer protocol to network device and the request may include a header file that includes the temporary storage identifier in the form of an Internet Protocol IP address of the wireless device that will serve as the temporary storage device. In alternate aspects the media content module player may be operable to generate and communicate alternate delivery destination requests that include a temporary storage wireless communication device identifier . The alternate delivery destination request may be communicated to the network device prior to requesting media content in which case the temporary storage identifier may be stored at the network device for subsequent use. Additionally the alternate delivery destination request may be communicated to the network device after requesting media content and after the network device has been unable to deliver download the media file content to the first wireless communication device .

The first wireless device may additionally include monitors such as memory monitor and signal strength monitor that monitor delivery attributes associated with the first wireless communication device. Delivery attributes are defined herein as characteristics that affect the delivery download of content. As such the delivery attributes may include available memory wireless network signal strength and the like. The monitors may determine if the first wireless communication device is capable of delivery download of the requested media content. For example the memory monitor may determine the current available memory capacity of the first wireless communication device and compare the available memory to the requested media file storage size. If sufficient memory currently exists at the first wireless device prior to requesting delivery of a media content file the first wireless device may notify the network device that direct delivery to the first wireless device is possible. If however insufficient memory currently exists at the first wireless communication device the device may notify the network device that delivery of the file to the temporary storage device is required. In another example the signal strength monitor may determine the current wireless network signal strength typically in terms of received signal strength power RSCP and compare the signal strength to delivery signal strength threshold. If sufficient signal strength currently exists at the first wireless device prior to requesting delivery of a media content file the first wireless device may notify the network device that direct delivery to the first wireless device is possible. If however insufficient signal strength currently exists at the first wireless communication device the device may notify the network device that delivery of the file to the temporary storage device is required. The memory monitor and the signal strength monitor may also be implemented after the media content file has been communicated to the temporary storage device to determine if the first wireless communication device can accept delivery download of the media content file from the temporary storage device.

The first wireless communication device may additionally include a peer to peer communication module . The peer to peer communication module provides for direct communication with other wireless communication devices across peer to peer network . In present aspects the peer to peer communication module provides for direct communication with the temporary storage wireless communication device and may provide for the communication mechanism in transferring the media file from the temporary storage device to the first wireless communication device .

The network device also referred to herein as the media content server includes a platform having a memory and a processor . The memory includes a media content delivery module that is operable for receiving media content requests from first wireless communication devices and delivering media content files in response to the requests via communications module . The media content files may be stored locally in memory or they may be stored in a remote database that is in network communication with network device . The media content delivery module may direct delivery of requested media content files to temporary storage device based on temporary storage device identifiers which may be included within received media content requests received alternate delivery destination requests or stored within a user profile database .

In alternate aspects the media content delivery module may determine that delivery of a requested media file be directed to the temporary storage device or the media content delivery module may be instructed to deliver a requested media content file to the temporary storage device . For example in one aspect the media content delivery module may attempt to deliver the media content file to the first wireless communication device and in response to delivery the network device may receive error messages notifying the device that delivery was unsuccessful. Unsuccessful delivery may be attributed to insufficient availability of memory at the first wireless communication device insufficient wireless network signal strength or insufficiency of any other delivery attribute that affects the ability of the device to properly receive download the media file. Receipt by the network device of one or more error messages may trigger the media content delivery module to direct delivery to the temporary storage device that is identified either in the media content request in the alternate delivery destination request or in the user profile database .

The second wireless communication device also referred to herein as the temporary storage device or the parent device includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor . The memory includes user child storage that may store at any given moment in time one or more media files for the associated first wireless communication device . Media files are received wirelessly from network device via communications module and are stored locally at the second wireless communication device for the benefit of the first wireless communication device . The second wireless communication device may additionally include a peer to peer communication module . The peer to peer communication module provides for direct communication with first wireless communication devices and as such may provide for the communication mechanism in transferring the media file from the temporary storage device to the first wireless communication device across peer to peer wireless network . It should be noted that once the second wireless device has properly communicated the media file s to the first wireless communication device the second communication device may be configured to remove the media items from memory or the device may be configured to retain the media items in memory to act as secondary or back up storage for the first wireless communication devices.

Referring to according to one aspect a block diagram representation of a wireless communication device operable for requesting media content files and directing temporary storage of the requested files at an associated wireless device is depicted. The wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory data registry which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory data registry may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as media content module player stored in the data registry of the wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processing engine may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with the media player content module and or the peer to peer communication module on computer platform .

The data registry of computer platform includes media content module player that is operable to generate and communicate media content file requests at the bequest of the device user. The media content requests will include information that identifies one or more media files such as a song file a video file multimedia file or the like which the uses wishes to download store and play on the first wireless communication device . According to present aspects delivery attributes associated with the first wireless device may dictate that the delivery of the requested media files be re directed to a temporary storage site such as a temporary storage wireless communication device. The delivery attributes may include but are not limited to available memory capacity wireless network signal strength and any other attribute that affects the delivery download of media content on wireless device . In one aspect the media content request may include a temporary storage wireless device identifier such as an IP address of a temporary storage wireless device. The temporary storage wireless device identifier serves to identify for the media content service an alternate delivery destination for the media content if delivery of the media content to the first wireless communication device is determined to be unavailable. The media content module player may be configured to automatically include one or more temporary storage device identifiers to all media file requests. In such aspects the temporary storage device s will be predefined by the user of the first wireless device. Alternatively the media content module player may be configured to include the identifier in the media content request based on the results of monitoring one or more delivery attributes such as available memory or wireless network signal strength or the media content module player may be configured to include the identifier based on device user discretion.

Alternatively in other aspects the media content module player may be operable for generating and communicating to the media content service an alternate delivery destination request that may include the temporary storage wireless device identifier . The alternate delivery destination request may be communicated to the media content service prior to generating and communicating a media content request . In this aspect the temporary storage wireless device identifier is stored in a user profile at the media content service site and is subsequently used to identify a temporary storage device if subsequent media content requests warrant re direction of delivery due to an insufficient delivery attribute. Alternatively the alternate delivery destination request may be communicated to the media content service after generating and communicating a media content request . In this aspect the media content request may not include the temporary storage identifier and the inability of the media content service to properly deliver the media content to the first wireless device due to an insufficient delivery attribute may prompt the wireless device to generate and communicate an alternative delivery destination request . The identifier s that is included in the alternate delivery destination request may be one or more predetermined identifiers associated with one or more predetermined temporary storage device or the identifiers may be manually added to request to ad hoc temporary storage device identification.

The media content module player may additionally include one or more delivery attribute monitors such as memory monitor and signal strength monitor . In certain aspects the media content module may be configured to access the memory monitor and or signal strength monitor prior to generating and communicating a media content request . In such aspects the media content request may additionally include information pertaining to delivery attributes such as current available capacity or current wireless network signal strength. In turn the media content service that receives the media content file request may use the delivery attribute information to determinate if delivery should be directed to the first wireless communication device i.e. based on sufficient available memory and or sufficient signal strength power at the first device or if the media file delivery should be redirected to the designated temporary storage wireless device i.e. based on insufficient available memory and or signal strength at the first device . Additionally in alternate aspects the monitors may be invoked after the media file request has been generated and communicated to the media content service. In such aspects the media content service may generate and send one or more queries to the wireless device to establish the current state of memory availability and or signal strength. The establishment of the delivery attributes states may be used by the media content service to determine if delivery should be directed to the first wireless device or to the temporary storage wireless device.

In further aspects the delivery attribute monitors such as memory monitor and signal strength monitor may be implemented after the requested media file has been temporarily stored at another wireless device. In one aspect the media content module may continually monitor the delivery attributes to determine when the delivery attributes are sufficient to allow for delivery download of the media content file from the temporary storage wireless device. For example the memory monitor of media content module may continually monitor memory availability to determine when the device has sufficient available memory to accommodate the storage of the media file s currently being stored at the temporary storage wireless device. When sufficient memory is available based on a comparison of available memory to the storage size of the requested media files the media content module may prompt the temporary storage wireless device to deliver download the content file s . In another example the signal monitor of media content module may continually monitor signal strength to determine when the device has sufficient signal strength to accommodate the downloading of the media file s from the temporary storage wireless device. When sufficient signal strength is available based on a comparison of current signal strength to a predetermined delivery signal strength threshold the media content module may prompt the temporary storage wireless device to deliver download the content file s . In an alternate aspect the temporary storage wireless device may periodically at predefined intervals generate and communicate one or more queries to assess the current state of delivery attributes at the first wireless device . The queries will invoke the delivery attribute monitors such as memory monitor and or signal strength monitor to determine current available memory and or current signal strength for the purpose of subsequently determining at the temporary storage wireless device whether delivery download to the first wireless device can successfully be accomplished.

The memory of first wireless communication device may also include a peer to peer wireless communication module that is operable to provide direct communication between the first wireless communication device and the temporary storage wireless communication device. In one aspect the media file that is temporarily stored may be communicated from the temporary storage wireless device to wireless device by peer to peer communication. In other aspects the peer to peer communication module may generate and communicate a temporary storage retrieval request that may either continually generated and sent to request the deliver download of the temporarily stored media file regardless of assessment of delivery attributes or the request may be generated and sent upon determination that the delivery attributes such as available memory and signal strength are sufficient to warrant deliver download.

Computer platform may further include communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the communication device as well as between the communication device and the wireless network . In described aspects the communication module enables the communication of all correspondence between the first wireless communication device and the network device . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless or wired network communication connection.

Additionally communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provides for user input to activate an application on the communication device. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

Referring to according to another aspect a block diagram is illustrated of a network device such as media content server operable to receive media content file requests and respond to the requests by delivering downloading the content files to a temporary storage wireless device. The network device may comprise at least one of any type of hardware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further the modules and applications described herein as being operated on or executed by the network device may be executed entirely on the network device or alternatively in other aspects separate servers or computer devices may work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless device and wireless device and the modules and applications executed by network device .

The network device has computer platform that can transmit and receive data across wireless network and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes a data storage which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data storage may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. The computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the network device as well as between the network device and wireless network and wireless device . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection.

The data storage of the network device may include a plurality of media content files such as song files video file multimedia files and the like that are requested by and delivered to wireless devices. While the media files are depicted as stored locally at network device in many aspects the volume of the media files may dictate that the media files be stored at a remote database that is in network communication with the network device such that the network device may readily retrieve a requested file from remote storage for subsequent delivery to a wireless device.

The data storage of the network device may additionally include a media content delivery module operable for receiving media content requests from wireless device and directing the delivery of the requested media content files to a temporary storage wireless device based on the insufficiency of one or more delivery attributes at the requesting wireless device. In one aspect the media content delivery module will attempt to deliver the requested media files to wireless device . Insufficiency of one or more delivery attributes will prompt the communication of error messages back to network device informing the media content delivery module that delivery of the media content files was unsuccessful. The media content delivery module may be configured to respond to the unsuccessful delivery by directing the delivery download of the files to a designated temporary storage wireless device . The media content delivery module may obtain the temporary storage wireless device identifier such as the IP address associated with the temporary storage device from the media content request an alternate delivery destination request or the a client user profile database .

In certain aspects the media content delivery module may further be operable to determine if re direction of media content file delivery to a temporary storage device is warranted. In certain aspects wireless device may communicate delivery attribute information such as current available memory or current wireless network signal strength to the media content delivery module. This information may be configured to be communicated either automatically or based on network device querying of the wireless device . As such the delivery attribute information may be included in the media content request the alternate delivery destination request or in other correspondence from the wireless device . Once the media delivery module receives the delivery attribute information the module may determine if re direction is warranted based on a comparison of the attribute information to information related to the media file or to the network. For example the media content delivery module may compare the storage size of the media content files to the available memory at the wireless device to determine if sufficient memory is available at the wireless device for delivery download. In another example the media content delivery module may compare the current signal strength at the wireless device to a predetermined delivery signal strength threshold to determine if sufficient signal strength is available at the wireless device. In alternate aspect the determination process may be conducted at the wireless device.

Referring now to according to one aspect a block diagram representation of a second wireless communication device otherwise referred to as the temporary storage device or the parent device is depicted. The wireless device is operable for storing media files on behalf of another wireless device and delivering downloading the media files to the wireless device when the delivery attribute that prohibited initial delivery download to the other wireless device is determined to be sufficient is depicted. Similar to the first wireless communication device the second wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory data registry which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory data registry may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device.

The data registry of computer platform includes user child storage files that includes the media files communicated from network device and stored at wireless device for the subsequent retrieval by the media requesting wireless device . In many aspects the data registry may include an individual user child storage file for each wireless device that is associated with temporary storage device for the purpose of using wireless device for the temporary storage of media content files .

The memory of second wireless communication device may also include a peer to peer wireless communication module that is operable to provide direct communication between the first wireless communication device and the temporary storage wireless communication device . In one aspect the media file that is temporarily stored may be communicated from the temporary storage wireless device to wireless device by peer to peer communication. In one aspect the peer to peer communication module or any other wireless communication module such as communications module may continually attempt at predefined intervals to deliver download the temporarily media file s to the requesting wireless device . In such aspects delivery download may successfully occur when the first wireless device is sufficient in terms of the delivery attribute at issue. For example delivery may occur when sufficient memory is available at wireless device or sufficient signal strength exists at wireless device . As previously noted when a media file is communicated from the temporary storage device to the first wireless device the media file may be removed from the data registry of second wireless device or the media files may remain in data registry for an indefinite or predetermined period of time for the purpose of providing back up storage for the first wireless device .

In alternate aspects the peer to peer wireless communication module may be configured to receive a temporary storage retrieval request communicated from wireless device . Temporary storage retrieval request is typically generated by wireless device in response to a determination that the delivery attribute that previously prohibited delivery download is currently sufficient to provide for delivery download of the media content file s . For example the available memory at wireless device may be sufficient to allow for the storage of the temporarily stored media content files or the current signal strength may be sufficient to provide for reliable delivery download of the media content files .

In other aspects the peer to peer communication module may generate and communicate a temporary storage retrieval request that may either continually generated and sent to request the deliver download of the temporarily stored media file regardless of assessment of delivery attributes or the request may be generated and sent upon determination that the delivery attributes such as available memory and signal strength are sufficient to warrant deliver download.

Referring now to a wireless network communication system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect. System can include one or more base stations located in one or more cells that receive transmit repeat etc. wireless communication signals to each other and or to one or more wireless communication devices and wireless device . Each base station can include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain not shown in each of which can in turn include a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception e.g. processors modulators multiplexers demodulators demultiplexers antennas etc. as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. Wireless communication devices can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless network . System can be employed in conjunction with various aspects described herein in order to facilitate adaptation of the wireless communication devices based on environmental and or behavior conditions and or patterns.

Referring to in one aspect mobile devices and comprise a wireless communication device such as a cellular telephone. A cellular telephone system may include wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Wireless communication devices and are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and often can communicate packets including voice and data over wireless network . As described earlier these smart wireless devices and may have APIs resident on their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the wireless communication device and and control certain functionality on the device. is a representative diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a wireless communication network and the interrelation of the elements of one aspect of the present system. Cellular telephone system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless communication devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In system network device can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with a separate network database for storing the media content files . Further a data management server may be in communication with network device to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. Network device network database and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. Network device and or data management server communicate with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communication devices and by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

The wireless network includes an access point and a wireless communication device . Access point includes a transmit TX data processor that receives formats codes interleaves and modulates or symbol maps traffic data and provides modulation symbols data symbols . The TX data processor is in communication with symbol modulator that receives and processes the data symbols and pilot symbols and provides a stream of symbols. Symbol modulator is in communication with transmitter unit TMTR such that symbol modulator multiplexes data and pilot symbols and provides them to transmitter unit TMTR . Each transmit symbol may be a data symbol a pilot symbol or a signal value of zero. The pilot symbols may be sent continuously in each symbol period. The pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM time division multiplexed TDM frequency division multiplexed FDM or code division multiplexed CDM .

TMTR receives and converts the stream of symbols into one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and frequency upconverts the analog signals to generate a downlink signal suitable for transmission over the wireless channel. The downlink signal is then transmitted through antenna to the terminals.

At wireless communication device antenna receives the downlink signal and provides a received signal to receiver unit RCVR . Receiver unit conditions e.g. filters amplifies and frequency downconverts the received signal and digitizes the conditioned signal to obtain samples. Receiver unit is in communication with symbol demodulator that demodulates the conditioned received signal. Symbol demodulator is in communication with processor that receives pilot symbols from symbol demodulator and performs channel estimation on the pilot symbols. Symbol demodulator further receives a frequency response estimate for the downlink from processor and performs data demodulation on the received data symbols to obtain data symbol estimates which are estimates of the transmitted data symbols . The symbol demodulator is also in communication with RX data processor which receives data symbol estimates from the symbol demodulator and demodulates i.e. symbol demaps deinterleaves and decodes the data symbol estimates to recover the transmitted traffic data. The processing by symbol demodulator and RX data processor is complementary to the processing by symbol modulator and TX data processor respectively at access point .

On the uplink a TX data processor processes traffic data and provides data symbols. The TX data processor is in communication with symbol modulator that receives and multiplexes the data symbols with pilot symbols performs modulation and provides a stream of symbols. The symbol modulator is in communication with transmitter unit which receives and processes the stream of symbols to generate an uplink signal which is transmitted by the antenna to the access point .

At access point the uplink signal from wireless communication device is received by the antenna and processed by a receiver unit to obtain samples. The receiver unit is in communication with symbol demodulator then processes the samples and provides received pilot symbols and data symbol estimates for the uplink. The symbol demodulator is in communication with RX data processor that processes the data symbol estimates to recover the traffic data transmitted by wireless communication device . The symbol demodulator is also in communication with processor that performs channel estimation for each active terminal transmitting on the uplink. Multiple terminals may transmit pilot concurrently on the uplink on their respective assigned sets of pilot subbands where the pilot subband sets may be interlaced.

Processors and direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at access point and wireless communication device respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory units not shown that store program codes and data. Processors and can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink respectively.

For a multiple access system e.g. FDMA OFDMA CDMA TDMA etc. multiple terminals can transmit concurrently on the uplink. For such a system the pilot subbands may be shared among different terminals. The channel estimation techniques may be used in cases where the pilot subbands for each terminal span the entire operating band possibly except for the band edges . Such a pilot subband structure would be desirable to obtain frequency diversity for each terminal. The techniques described herein may be implemented by various means. For example these techniques may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units used for channel estimation may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof. With software implementation can be through modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory unit and executed by the processors and .

At Event the first wireless device determines insufficiency of a delivery download attribute that prohibits the current delivery download of the media content to the first wireless communication device. Determining insufficiency of a delivery attribute may be accomplished by various processes. In one aspect the network service provider may attempt to deliver download the media file to the first wireless communication device but is prevented due to insufficiency of a delivery attribute. For example the delivery may be prevented because the available memory at the first wireless device is less than the storage size of the requested media file. In another example the delivery may be prevented because the signal strength at the first wireless communication device is insufficient to support the download of the media file onto the device. In other aspects the first wireless device may determine the insufficiency of the delivery attribute prior to the media content service attempting to deliver download the media file to the first wireless communication device. In such aspects the first wireless communication device may monitor the delivery attribute such as available memory and or wireless network signal strength and determine sufficiency insufficiency of the delivery attribute based on a comparison of the available memory to the storage size of the media file or a comparison of the current signal strength to a signal strength delivery threshold. In this instance the first wireless communication device may determine insufficiency of the delivery attribute and notify the media content service of the inability to support proper delivery download or alternatively the first wireless device may communicate the monitored delivery attribute information to the content provider which may undertake the one or more comparisons to determine the insufficiency sufficiency of the delivery attribute.

At Event the first wireless communication device directs the media content service to deliver the media content file to a temporary storage wireless communication device based on the insufficiency of the delivery attribute. Directing the media content service to deliver the media content file to a temporary storage device may include identifying a temporary storage wireless device. Identification of the temporary storage device may occur via inclusion if a device identifier such as an IP address or the like in the media content request or in a separate correspondence such as an alternate delivery destination request or the like. Directing the media content to deliver the media content file to a temporary storage device may occur via the error messages sent from the first wireless device to the media content service or the direction may occur via a specific correspondence such as a media content request an alternate delivery destination request or the like.

At Event the first wireless communication device retrieves the media content from the temporary storage device when the delivery attribute is sufficient to allow delivery. In one aspect retrieval of the media content from temporary storage device may occur by continually prompting at a predefined interval the temporary storage device to deliver download the media files. In this aspect the delivery downloading of the media file will occur when the delivery attributes are sufficient i.e. the signal strength provides for download capability or the available memory exceeds the storage size of the media file. In other aspects the first communication device may monitor the delivery attributes and the first communication device may prompt the temporary storage device for delivery download when the monitored delivery attributes are determined to be sufficient to support deliver download.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for directing delivery download of a requested media file to a temporary storage wireless device according to one aspect. At Event a media content provider receives a wireless request for a media content file from a first wireless device. The media content file may comprise a song file another audio file a video file a multimedia file or the like. In one specific aspect the media content request may be received over a wireless Internet connection. At Event the media content provider determines that the first communication device is unable to currently receive delivery of the media file due to an insufficient delivery attribute. In some aspects the determination may occur by the media content provider attempting to deliver download the media content file and receiving in response to unsuccessful attempts at delivering downloading to media content file error messages. In alternate aspects the determination may occur by receiving a communication from the first wireless communication device such as alternate delivery destination request that indicates that one or more delivery attributes are currently preventing delivery of the media content files. In another alternate aspect the determination may occur at the media content provider based on delivery attribute information communicated from the first wireless delivery device. For example the first wireless communication device may communicate the current available memory or the current wireless network signal strength and the media content provider may compare these to the storage size of the media file or the signal strength delivery threshold to determine if the first wireless communication device is unable to be currently receive delivery.

At Event the media content provider identifies a second wireless communication device as a temporary storage device for the media content file. The second wireless communication device may be identified by a device identifier included within the media content request an alternate delivery destination request any other correspondence from the first wireless communication device or included within a user profile accessible to the media content provider. At Event the media content provider will communicate the requested media content files to the second wireless communication device that has been identified as the temporary storage wireless device.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for receiving and storing media files temporarily on a wireless device according to one aspect. At Event a wireless device that has been designated as a temporary storage device receives a media content file from a media content provider. Delivery to the temporary storage wireless device is based on the insufficiency of a delivery attribute associated with a wireless device that requested the media files. For example the requesting wireless device may have insufficient memory to allow for storage of the media files or the strength of the wireless network signal is insufficient to allow for downloading delivery. The temporary storage device may be designated as such by an association with the requesting wireless device. For example the temporary storage device may be used by a family member a co worker a group or organization member or the like.

At Event the temporary storage wireless device stores the media files in device memory. The files may be cached in temporary storage in instances in which they prone to immediate transfer to the requesting wireless device or the files may be stored in permanent memory for longer term storage periods. As noted previously once the files have been communicated to the requesting wireless device the files may be deleted from memory on the temporary storage device or the files may be stored indefinitely or for a predetermined period of time.

At Event the media files are communicated to the requesting wireless device. In some aspects the requesting wireless device may continuously prompt at predefined intervals the temporary storage wireless device to attempt delivery download of the media files. In other aspects the temporary device will continuously at predefined intervals attempt to deliver download the media files to the requesting device. The delivery download attempts will continue until the delivery download is successful at the requesting wireless device. In other aspects the requesting device may monitor the delivery attributes and may prompt the temporary storage device for delivery download when the delivery attributes are determined to be sufficient to provide for delivery download.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus the described aspects provide for methods devices computer program products processors and systems that provide for temporary storage of media content on a wireless communication device. According to aspects when a wireless communication device requests media content from a media content service but is unable to receive the media due to insufficient memory availability insufficient wireless network signal strength or another delivery attribute the media content service directs delivery of the content to the associated temporary storage wireless communication device. In turn the wireless device that requested the media content is able to automatically retrieve the media content from the temporary storage device when memory capacity or network signal strength is deemed sufficient to provide for storage or reception. The present aspects provide for mobile storage and allow for handset to handset delivery of the media content files which is beneficial in overcoming inherent problems related to signal strength at the fringes of network coverage or when the requesting device has difficulty maintaining a download connection.

Many modifications and other aspects will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the aspect is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

