---

title: Biological sample collector
abstract: A biological sample collector is adapted to a collect several biological samples in a plurality of filter wells. A biological sample collector may comprise a manifold plate for mounting a filter plate thereon, the filter plate having a plurality of filter wells therein; a hollow slider for engaging and positioning a tube that slides therethrough; and a slide case within which the hollow slider travels to allow the tube to be aligned with a selected filter well of the plurality of filter wells, wherein when the tube is aligned with the selected filter well, the tube is pushed through the hollow slider and into the selected filter well to sealingly engage the selected filter well and to allow the tube to deposit a biological sample onto a filter in the bottom of the selected filter well. The biological sample collector may be portable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07789246&OS=07789246&RS=07789246
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07789246
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070213
---
This application claims the priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 773 732 filed on Feb. 14 2006 the entire disclosure and contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 7405 ENG 48 between the United States Department of Energy and the University of California for the operation of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.

The present invention relates generally to biological sample collectors and more particularly to biological sample collectors used in verifying a biological decontamination protocol.

After an attack involving a biological agent against a facility authorities must act to decontaminate if the facility will be used by the public again. A variety of biological decontamination protocols may be used to clean a contaminated facility. Even though these protocols exist the assessment of the effectiveness of a selected protocol may be time consuming and difficult due in part to the range of weaponizable biological agents. Moreover the correct tools and methods for identifying the presence of many biological agents are unknown which also may slow the verification of the decontamination protocol. Furthermore biological agents may not have a uniform susceptibility to a particular decontamination protocol.

One important aspect in verifying the efficiency of the decontamination protocol is the collection of biological samples from the environment. Samples must be collected from different surfaces within the environment and tested. Conventional devices and tools for collecting are insufficient and not suitable for all types of surfaces. For example wipes are not suitable for collecting samples from carpet or fabric and are easily tearable. Further the biological samples collected using these conventional devices and tools are not suited to be directly tested using a high throughput automated process.

According to a first broad aspect of the present invention there is provided a biological sample collector comprising a manifold plate for mounting a filter plate thereon the filter plate having a plurality of filter wells therein a hollow slider for engaging and positioning a tube that slides therethrough and a slide case within which the hollow slider travels to allow the tube to be aligned with a selected filter well of the plurality of filter wells wherein when the tube is aligned with the selected filter well the tube is pushed through the hollow slider and into the selected filter well to sealingly engage the selected filter well and to allow the tube to deposit a biological sample onto a filter in the bottom of the selected filter well.

According to a second broad aspect of the invention there is provided a biological sample collector comprising a suction means in fluid communication with a filter plate wherein the filter plate comprises a plurality of filter wells a hollow slider for engaging and positioning a tube that slides therethrough and a slide case within which the hollow slider travels to allow the tube to be aligned with a selected filter well of the plurality of filter wells wherein when the tube is aligned with the selected filter well the tube is pushed through the hollow slider and into the selected filter well to sealingly engage the selected filter well and to allow the suction means to pull a biological sample from the tube that is deposited on a filter in the bottom of the selected filter well.

According to a third broad aspect of the invention there is provided a biological sample collector comprising a suction means within a housing a manifold plate mounted on the housing for mounting a filter plate thereon the filter plate having a plurality of filter wells therein and a tube case having a plurality of tube holders each for engaging and positioning a tube that slides through the selected tube holder wherein when the tube is aligned with a selected filter well of the plurality of filter wells the tube is pushed through the selected tube holder and into the selected filter well to sealingly engage the selected filter well and to allow the suction means to pull from the tube a biological sample that is deposited on a filter in the bottom of the selected filter well.

According to a fourth broad aspect of the invention there is provided a method for collecting one or more biological samples comprising the following steps a inserting a tube into a first filter well b transferring through the tube a first set of biological samples onto a first filter in said first filter well c moving the tube into alignment with a second filter well and d transferring through the tube a second set of biological samples onto a second filter in said second filter well.

It is advantageous to define several terms before describing the invention. It should be appreciated that the following definitions are used throughout this application. Where the definition of terms departs from the commonly used meaning of the term applicant intends to utilize the definitions provided below unless specifically indicated.

For the purposes of the present invention the term biological agent refers to a biological organism that is present in an environment that is not normally present or whose presence is at levels that are higher than normal and whose reduction elimination destruction or neutralization is desirable. Biological agents include existing and yet to be developed biological weapons. The range of biological organisms includes spores bacteria prokaryotes viruses yeasts fungi and other single cell organisms. One example of a biological agent is an anthrax spore. Note that when this application refers to collecting biological agents this application is referring to collecting multiple biological organisms of one type of biological agent unless otherwise indicated.

For the purposes of the present invention the term biological sample refers to the material organisms and debris collected from an environment. The biological sample may have one or more biological agents present.

For the purposes of the present invention the term decontamination protocol refers to any method of cleaning destroying removing or killing a biological contamination from an environment. The decontamination protocol may involve a vapor solution or physical decontamination or combinations thereof. Examples of biological decontamination protocols include fumigation with chlorine dioxide steam sterilization or gamma radiation. Some current methods of decontamination involve using combinations of solutions or fumigants of sodium hypochlorite bleach ethylene oxide methyl bromide ozone paraformaldehyde and other antiseptics and disinfectants as well as vacuum cleaning with HEPA filtration. Further description of decontamination protocols are provided in Berns et al. Reopening Public Facilities After a Biological Attack A Decision Making Framework National Academies Press 2005 the entire contents and disclosures of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

For the purposes of the present invention the term environment refers to a facility building or transport device where the presence of a biological agent has been detected. A treated environment refers to a facility or building that is in the process of being or has been cleaned using biological decontamination protocols. It should be readily understood that environment may encompass a plurality of separate buildings in an area. A transport device includes trains buses trolleys subways airplanes ferries cruise ships barges cargo ships or similar vehicles used in transportation of people and goods.

For the purposes of the present invention the term fluid communication or fluidly connected refers to an interaction between two or more components in which a fluid is used. The fluid may comprise a liquid gas or mixture thereof. For example the air pump is fluidly connected using air to the tube through the network of pipes in the manifold plate and filter well.

For the purposes of the present invention the term polymerase chain reaction PCR refers to a method of amplifying a specific target polynucleotide through repeated cycles of DNA strand separation denaturating annealing of oligonucleotide primers and DNA polymerization using a thermostable DNA polymerase. As used herein quantitative polymerase chain reaction qPCR refers to a PCR reaction performed such that the assay is capable of quantifying the amount of target polynucleotide present in the sample. Also as used herein rapid viability PCR RV PCR refers to a qPCR that determines whether a sample is viable within approximately 24 hours or less.

For the purposes of the present invention the term sealingly refers to the interaction when two components are connected or engaged as being substantially air tight. Although components may be sealingly engaged when assembled the components may be separated and reattached.

For the purposes of the present invention the term viable refers to the ability of a biological organism including biological agents to carry out those biochemical and genetic processes that allow the organism to propagate under suitable conditions including gene expression i.e. transcription and DNA and RNA replication. Organisms that require the presence of a host cell in order to propagate are considered to be viable so long as they are capable of propagation in the presence of a suitable host cell. Moreover for organisms such as viruses and certain mycoplasmata viability necessarily connotes infectivity i.e. without the ability to infect a compatible host cell such agents would be considered non viable.

To rapidly restore a facility following a biological agent release i.e. in a terrorist attack the verification method of the decontamination protocol must provide quick turn around time and reliable results to determine building safety. Aspects of the present invention provide devices and methods to collect biological samples for verifying the biological decontamination protocols using highly specific quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction PCR assays. The effectiveness of a protocol may be determined by whether any collected biological agents are viable after treatment using the protocol. The viability of the biological agents collected from an environment corresponds to the viability of the possible biological agents remaining in the environment. Once an effective biological decontamination protocol is verified the authorities may confirm that a facility is clean enough to be safe.

To collect the biological agents embodiments of the present invention provide a biological sample collector also referred to as an Enviro CAF . The biological sample collector may be used in both indoor and outdoor environments. One important aspect of the biological sample collector is that the collection is optimized such that the biological samples are collected directly in a filter well. This allows culturing and further testing to occur within the filter well without the need to transfer the biological sample. One advantage of such embodiments is that testing occurs within the device used to collect the biological sample. An example of testing method is described in co pending applications entitled Rapid Viability Assessment of Biological Indicators by qPCR filed on Feb. 13 2007 Ser. No. 11 706 064 now abandoned and Rapid Viability Assessment of Environment Samples by qPCR filed on Feb. 13 2007 Ser. No. 11 706 063 the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Such embodiments increase safety and reduce unnecessary contamination or aerosolization when collecting a biological agent.

Referring now to the embodiment depicted in the biological sample collector comprises a housing manifold plate filter plate and slide case . Housing comprises an actuator air pump notch base extension and a power port . Air pump has a conduit that opens out of housing and air pump is adjacent to vent grate . On base extension there is a clamp . Connected to housing through power port is a power source having an activation switch . Manifold plate comprises a casing that surrounds a pipe having an outlet valve and a plurality of intake valves . Filter plate comprises a plurality of filter wells in a strip . Each filter well comprises a trap shaft filter and tapered end . Positioned above trap is a film barrier described in further detail below with reference to . A tube is inserted through the slide case . Slide case comprises a lid having grooves for guiding hollow slider described in further detail below with reference to . Hollow slider has an empty bore cylinder through which tube travels. Lid also has a tenon that engages notch when biological sample collector is assembled.

The embodiment depicted in show a biological sample collector comprising a housing having a manifold plate and filter plate mounted thereon as well slide case . Housing comprises an actuator not shown on handle air pump base extension and a power port . Air pump has a conduit that opens out of housing . On base extension there is a clamp . Connected to housing through power port is a power source not shown . Manifold plate comprises a casing that surrounds a pipe having an outlet valve and a plurality of intake valves . Filter plate comprises a plurality of filter wells in a strip . Each filter well comprises a shaft filter and tapered end . A tube is inserted through slide case . Slide case comprises a lid having an enclosed space in which hollow slider fits. Hollow slider has an empty bore cylinder through which tube travels. Hollow slider is shown in position A removed from slide case and position A at an incline for loading into slide case . Hollow slider has teeth for engaging corresponding teeth on filter plate . Once engaged the teeth and may align and position hollow slider to allow tube to be inserted into filter well . Air may flow from tube to air pump as shown by arrows .

The embodiment in shows a biological sample collector comprising a housing combined filter plate and tube case . Housing comprises an actuator not shown air pump notch base extension and a power port . Air pump has a conduit that opens out of housing . On base extension there is a clamp . Connected to housing through power port is a power source having a clip . Combined filter plate comprises a manifold pipe having an outlet valve and a plurality of intake valves and a plurality of filter wells aligned with intake valves . Each filter well comprises a shaft filter and tapered end . Positioned above filter well is a film barrier described in further detail below with reference to . Tube case comprises a lid and tube holders that extend through lid . Lid has a tenon that is inserted into notch when biological sample collector is assembled. This closed mortise tenon joint aligns and secures lid to housing . The number of tube holders corresponds to the number of filter wells in filter plate . Tube is removably inserted in one of the tube holders . Air may flow from tube to air pump as shown by arrows .

In the embodiments of the present invention a manifold plate is mounted to housing filter plate is mounted to manifold plate and slide case or tube case is mounted on filter plate and housing. These plate and case components are modular and may be interchanged or removed. For example filter plate may be removed once all the biological agents are deposited and a new filter plate may be inserted. Several different types of filter plates may be used including 6 8 12 48 or 96 filter well plates. It should be understood that various combinations of the 8 and 12 filters well strips may be assembled into a 48 or 96 filter well plate for use with robotic testing systems and devices. Depending on the filter plate the size and configuration of the manifold plate may vary. In some embodiments of the present invention such as the one shown in the manifold plate and filter plate may be combined into one piece.

The biological sample collector may have several interchangeable components that may be readily assembled in field to collect the biological samples. In one embodiment biological sample collector may comprise a kit of multiple manifold plates filter plates slide cases and tube cases as well as different types of housing shapes. Also slide case may be interchanged with tube case depending on the application. This interchangeability provides a portable solution to biological sample collection that can adapt to a variety of collection situations thus increasing the flexibility of use.

Another advantage of a modular design is that each of the plate and case components may be cleaned to reduce cross contamination between collections of biological samples. Further modular components allow each plate and case component to be made of a disposable material thus eliminating cross contamination between collections of biological samples.

The housing may also have controls or a microprocessor not shown that operate components of housing. Actuator may be a button switch trigger etc. that controls air pump. Air pump which acts as a vacuum sucks air in through conduit. Vent grate provides ventilation for air pump. The air pump may have a motor that operates at approximately 5 30 ft min.

Base extension has one or more clamps for securing manifold plate filter plate and slide case or tube case mounted thereon. Clamps may be any suitable releasable retention device that keeps the components mounted on base extension when in operation. Examples of suitable retention device include clamps straps fasteners screws grips etc. In some embodiments there may separate clamps for each component mounted upon the base extension.

Connected to housing through power port may be a power source. Power source may include a battery or wall outlet. For portable applications a battery may be used. Battery may have an activation switch and or a clip. Conventional primary and secondary batteries may be used with embodiments of the present invention.

In one embodiment housing is made of a translucent material such as an acrylic material or other similar plastic material. A translucent material allows the operator of the biological sample collector to visually confirm that all the components are properly mounted. In addition this allows for inspection of the biological sample deposited during use.

The shape and style of biological sample collector may vary. One example of a planar shape is shown in . Examples of a gun shaped housing are shown in . The embodiment in shows a biological sample collector comprising a gun shaped housing manifold plate filter plate slide case actuator power connector power source tube and hollow slider . It should be understood that other housing shapes and styles may be used with embodiments of the present invention.

A manifold plate is one of the components mounted on the housing. The configuration of manifold plate may vary depending on the application. For example there may be a network of pipes that connect the plurality of intake valves and the outlet valve. It should be understood that the number of intake valves may correspond to the design of filter plate. Each intake valve may have an annular sealing ring such as an O ring. This annular ring engages the filter well of the filter plate. When manifold plate is mounted to housing the outlet valve aligns with and sealingly engages the exposed orifice of the conduit connected to the air pump.

Any suitable filter plate may be used with embodiments of the present invention. The filter plate has a tapered end which sealingly engages with one of the intake valves when mounted to manifold plate. Filter may be made of a PDVF Telphon or similar material. In one embodiment the filter may have a 0.45 M or 0.8 M pore size. The pore size should be sufficient to prevent any of the biological sample from entering the manifold pipe or air pump.

Tube is flexible and has an opened end that is used to collected biological samples from a treated environment. The open end may be a nozzle or similar vacuum port.

The closed mortise tenon joint between notch and tenon aligns and secures the lid to the housing. This may act to further hold the manifold and filter plates to the housing. In some embodiments the hollow slider is driven by a mechanical motor. Mechanical motor may be within slide case and receives power from the power source through housing. The notch and tenon may also have an electrical mating connection that provides power and control through the housing. Thus once the actuator on the housing is pressed the air pump may turn on and a control signal may be sent to the hollow slider to move to the next filter well.

Within enclosed space a hollow slider shown in travels. Hollow slider has guide rails extending from body through which a cylinder having an empty bore extends. Guide rails fit within grooves and define a travel path of hollow slider . In one embodiment when tube is inserted into cylinder pinchers may be used to hold tube in place. shows pinchers slid open when inserting tube and closing shut as shown by arrows to grasp tube . When open the bore size of cylinder may increase. shows that when tube is pushed down pinchers may snap down as shown by arrow .

Hollow slider may be moved manually or by a mechanical means such as an electrical motor that drives a gears or wheels. Other mechanisms for moving the hollow slider are contemplated by this invention. In addition there may be an alignment indicator next to each filter well to confirm the position of the hollow slider.

There may be a releasable mechanism for locking the hollow slider in place once aligned such as the reciprocal teeth shown in . Other similar releasable locks may also be used with different embodiments of the present invention.

Returning to the embodiment shown in a detailed cross section view of a tube inserted into trap of a filter well is shown in . Biological sample collector has a slide case mounted on filter plate which is mounted on manifold plate . Tube sealingly engages with film barrier when inserted downward into trap . Arrows indicate the direction of the air flow through tube into filter well and out through pipe . Biological samples not shown are deposited on filter . In one embodiment when tube is pushed down tube slides within cylinder of hollow slider . To create a proper seal intake valve sealingly engages with tapered end of filter well . The seal between tube and trap is releasable once the biological sample is deposited on filter .

A top view of film barrier is shown in . Film barrier has several slots for flexible flaps . Although four slots are shown in other embodiments may have a different number of slots from approximately 2 20 slots. Film barrier is placed over the trap of each filter well to prevent aerosolization of any biological sample that is deposited into the filter well. In one embodiment a plurality of film barriers may be placed on a sheet not shown which correspondingly aligns with each of the filter wells. Film barrier may be made of any suitable plastic material.

Next tube is loaded into cylinder of hollow slider . Hollow slider travels along grooves in slide case . Once aligned with a filter well tube is pushed down through film barrier into trap and air pump is activated by actuator . Power from power source drives the motor of air pump . Air pump sucks the biological sample through tube and deposits the biological samples collected on to filter . Once the biological sample is deposited the vacuum shuts off and tube is retracted out of the trap through the film barrier . Hollow slider travels along grooves to the next filter well shown in and the process is repeated. This continues until each filter well is loaded with biological samples. Next clamps are released and slide case is removed so that the filter plate may be replaced with an empty filter plate . Each of the loaded filter plates may be assembled into a larger plate for testing of the collected biological sample.

All documents patents journal articles and other materials cited in the present application are hereby incorporated by reference.

Although the present invention has been fully described in conjunction with several embodiments thereof with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that various changes and modifications may be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications are to be understood as included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims unless they depart therefrom.

