---

title: Automatic sampling and dilution apparatus for use in a polymer analysis system
abstract: The present invention provides an automatic sampling and dilution apparatus for use in a polymer analysis system. The apparatus comprises (a) a primary mixing chamber; (b) a primary pump capable of continuously withdrawing a variable viscosity liquid from a reactor at a selectable, fixed withdrawal rate over a varying viscosity range of about 50 to about 5,000,000 centipoise (cP) for continuously conveying the variable viscosity polymer-containing liquid into the primary mixing chamber; (c) a first dilution pump for continuously delivering a first dilution solvent into the primary mixing chamber at a selectable, fixed flow rate to mix with the variable viscosity liquid in the mixing chamber and thereby form a diluted polymer-containing liquid therein; and (d) a secondary pump for continuously conveying the diluted polymer-containing liquid into a flow-through detector. A polymer analysis system utilizing the automatic sampling and dilution apparatus is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08322199&OS=08322199&RS=08322199
owner: The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund
number: 08322199
owner_city: New Orleans
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070214
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application patent Ser. No. 10 442 676 filed on May 21 2003 now abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 382 213 filed on May 21 2002 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. government support under Grant No. CTS0124006 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The US government has certain rights in this application.

The present invention relates to the absolute characterization of microscopic particles in solution. More particularly the present invention relates to the absolute characterization of microscopic particles such as polymers and colloids using static light scattering SLS and time dependent static light scattering TDSLS . In principle the size range of detectability should run from about 20 Angstroms to 100 microns with useful measurability in the range from 20 Angstroms to 2 microns and a preferred range from about 20 Angstroms to 5000 Angstroms. Stated in terms of molar mass the detectable range of particles should run from about 500 g mole to 10g mole with useful measurability in the range of 500 g mole to 10g mole with a preferred range from about 1000 g mole to 10g mole.

The preferred use of this invention is the determination of average particle masses static dimensions interaction coefficients and other properties as well as their changes in time when scattering is from a very large number of particles. This is to be distinguished from turbidometric and nephelometric techniques in which turbidity or relative scattering of solutions is measured and compared to relative reference solutions in order to obtain concentrations of particles. The SLS technique employed refers to absolute macromolecular characterization and not to determinations of concentrations of particulates with respect to specific relative calibrations etc. This is also to be distinguished from devices which count and characterize single particles although the present invention can count and characterize single particles in addition to making SLS measurements. The least number of particles whose scattered light would be detected in the scattering volume the volume of illuminated sample whose scattering is measured by a given photodetector would be on the order of 20 and the maximum on the order of 4 10 with the preferred range being from about 15 000 to 1.5 10particles. In terms of concentration of solute dissolved polymer or colloid the range would be from about 10g cm for very large particles to 0.2 g cm for very small particles with the preferred range being from about 10to 10g cm. It should be pointed out that SLS in the absolute mode requires optically transparent solutions in which single not multiple scattering dominates. Many particle concentration detectors actually work in turbid solutions which is a different range of conditions entirely.

SLS has proven to be a useful technique not only for characterizing equilibrium properties of microscopic particles such as molar mass dimensions and interactions but also for following time dependent processes such as polymerization degradation and aggregation. Measuring the time independent angular distribution and absolute intensity of scattered light in the equilibrium cases allows the former properties to be determined according to procedures set forth by Lord Rayleigh Debye Zimm and others e.g. ref. 1 . In particular this invention can be used in conjunction with the well known procedure of Zimm to determine weight average molar mass M z average mean square radius of gyration and second virial coefficient A. Measuring the time dependent changes in the scattered intensity allows calculation of kinetic rate constants as well as deduction of kinetic mechanisms and particle structural features e.g. refs. 2 3 . TDSLS can be used to monitor polymerization and degradation reactions aggregation gelling and phase separation phenomena e.g. ref. 4 .

In addition to absolute SLS and TDSLS measurements the present invention can also simultaneously count and characterize individual particles which are much larger than the principal polymer or colloid particles e.g. the large particles may have a radius of 5 microns whereas the polymer may have an effective radius of 0.1 micron. The large particles may represent a contaminant or impurity or may be an integral part of the solution e.g. bacteria large particles produce a desired polymer e.g. a polysaccharide in a biotechnology reactor. The number density of bacteria can be followed in time and the absolute macromolecular characterization of the polysaccharide could also be made an auxiliary concentration detector would also be necessary if the polysaccharide concentration changes in time .

The present invention involves automatic online mixing and or dilution of solutions containing polymers and or colloids in order to provide relative and or absolute characterization of these microscopic particles in solution. In the following the term dilution will be used because whenever two or more solutions are mixed as described herein the solutes in each will become dilute. The automatic dilution is intended to replace the traditional prior art of manually diluting such polymer colloid solutions in order to make characterizing measurements and to extend measurement capabilities to novel situations especially those involving non equilibrium that is time dependent processes such as polymerization degradation aggregation and phase separation. The method can be used in conjunction with a variety of detectors such as static light scattering SLS time dependent static light scattering TDSLS heterogeneous time dependent light scattering HTDSLS dynamic light scattering refractometry ultraviolet and visible spectrophotometry turbidometry nephelometry viscometry and evaporative light scattering. The automatic online dilution of polymer and or colloid solutions will be shown to have broad applicability in many sectors. In referring to the ensemble of SLS TDSLS and HTDSLS detectors and methods in the following the term light scattering LS will be used for brevity.

In principle the size range of detectability of the polymers and or colloids should run from about 20 Angstroms to 100 microns with useful measurability in the range from 20 Angstroms to 20 microns and a preferred range from about 20 Angstroms to 5000 Angstroms. Stated in terms of molar mass the detectable range of particle molar masses should run from about 500 g mole to 1014 g mole with useful measurability in the range of 500 g mole to 1011 g mole with a preferred range from about 1000 g mole to 1010 g mole.

This invention focuses on automated methods that are used to characterize equilibrium and non equilibrium properties of solutions containing polymers and or colloid particles. Characterization of polymers and colloids via LS detectors is in terms of average particle masses static dimensions interaction coefficients and other properties as well as their changes in time when scattering is from a very large number of particles. When large colloidal particles are present the use of the method in conjunction with HTDSLS also allows the determination of the number density of these particles information on their dimensions and when the system is not in equilibrium how these properties change in time.

SLS has proven to be a useful technique for characterizing equilibrium properties of microscopic particles such as molar mass dimensions and interactions and TDSLS and HTDSLS for following time dependent processes such as polymerization degradation and aggregation. Measuring the time independent angular distribution and absolute intensity of scattered light in the equilibrium cases allows the former properties to be determined according to procedures set forth by Lord Rayleigh Debye Zimm and others e.g. ref. 1 . In particular this invention can be used in conjunction with the well known procedure of Zimm to determine weight average molar mass Mw z average mean square radius of gyration z and second virial coefficient A2. Measuring the time dependent changes in the scattered intensity allows calculation of kinetic rate constants as well as deduction of kinetic mechanisms and particle structural features e.g. refs. 2 3 . TDSLS can be used to monitor polymerization and degradation reactions aggregation gelling and phase separation phenomena e.g. ref. 4 .

In addition to absolute SLS and TDSLS measurements use of the present invention in conjunction with HTDSLS allows simultaneous counting and characterization of individual particles which are much larger than the principal polymer or colloid particles e.g. the large particles may have a radius of 5 microns whereas the polymer may have an effective radius of 0.1 micron. The large particles may represent a contaminant or an impurity or may be an integral part of the solution e.g. bacteria large particles produce a desired polymer e.g. a polysaccharide in a biotechnology reactor. The number density of bacteria can be followed in time and the absolute macromolecular characterization of the polysaccharide could also be made an auxiliary concentration detector would also be useful if the polysaccharide concentration changes in time .

The method whereby simultaneous absolute characterization of polymers and number counting of large particles is carried out is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 969 386 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 184 . To optimize the technique one should make the sample liquid flow relative to the irradiating laser beam or other light source in the scattering chamber so as to produce countable scattering spikes as each large particle passes through the detected portion of the illuminated volume the scattering volume while ensuring via correct design of the optical and electronic detection system that there is on the average less than one large particle in the scattering volume at any given time. This allows the scattering level to recover to the baseline scattering of the pure polymer between the scattering spikes due to the large particles so that the polymer can be absolutely characterized. The fraction of baseline time termed herein clear window time and is detailed mathematically in ref. 5 wherein the method has recently been demonstrated. In this demonstration it was first shown that useful characterization of a polymer solution could be made even in the presence of a large amount of particulate contamination. The contaminant was a known amount of 2 micron latex spheres introduced in increasing amounts to an aqueous polymer solution containing the polymer poly vinyl pyrrolidone or PVP. Secondly the ability to simultaneously make absolute characterization of the polymer while the change in time of the large particle population was monitored was demonstrated by monitoring the growth of bacteria amidst an aqueous solution of PVP polymer.

More particularly the present invention also includes a device for automatically and continuously sampling and diluting liquids of high viscosity normally containing synthetic and or biological polymers to such an extent that absolute light scattering and or other optical and physical measurements can be made. In many cases the viscosity in the vessel containing the fluid will vary continuously from a low value to a high value polymerization reaction or vice versa degradation or phase separation reaction . In some instances it will be desirable to manually or automatically change the dilution factor during the course of a reaction or monitoring process.

There is currently considerable interest in the polymer industry for finding a means of monitoring and controlling in real time or near real time the progress of polymerization and other reactions. Here polymer industry is understood to mean all industries producing synthetic polymers e.g. polyolefins as well as those producing or modifying biological or bioactive polymers whether for food pharmaceutical cosmetic or other applications. Polymer reaction is understood to mean polymerization copolymerization degradation or any means of modifying the chemical or physical properties of polymers.

Currently the state of the polymer reaction can be found by manually sampling the reactor and making any number of analytical tests on the contents. This however leads to long delay times in obtaining results usually too long to make useful adjustments to the reaction. Often times the analytical laboratory facilities are located remotely from the reactor. Such manual sampling also does not yield a continuous enough record of the reaction to follow the time course quantitatively. There can also be safety issues involved when workers expose themselves to hazardous reactor environments to obtain samples.

A step towards automation has been proposed recently by Symyx Technologies Inc. Ca. and others wherein a discrete automatic sampling of reactor contents occurs followed by injection of a finite volume of the extracted material into an analytical system which contains a series of detectors and optionally a chromatographic column to perform some separation of the injected material. This type of procedure leads to signal peaks in the detectors each time a sample is injected. The peaks are then normally analyzed using standard analytical practice to obtain molecular masses degree of monomer conversion and sometimes reduced viscosity. The actual sampling and dilution is normally carried out by a robotic system. For example Waters introduced such an auto sampling system. All these techniques involve injection of a material to produce peaks and yield data points separated by significant dead times during which the sampling and detector system recover in preparation for the next injected pulse of material. These techniques including the manual one can be termed discrete sampling techniques.

The current invention builds off of an alternative sampling and analysis method previously introduced by this inventor. This method is a continuous one and does not involve injecting pulses of material and subsequently obtaining detector peaks for analysis. Recently the inventor has coined the term Automatic Continuous Online Monitoring of Polymerization Reactions ACOMP for this method. In ACOMP a stream of material from the reactor is continuously mixed with a solvent and the diluted mixture flows through the detector train providing a continuous record of the reaction. In ACOMP no chromatographic columns are used finite pulses of material are not injected into the detector train although they may be injected into the mixing chamber and detector signal peaks are not obtained. Another area of reaction monitoring involves in situ probes such as near Infra red and rheometers. While these probes allow real time or near real time data on the reaction to be gathered they are inevitably empirical methods largely based on chemometric approaches which show a statistical relationship between a desired polymer property and an instrument s signal. ACOMP in contrast involves absolute measurements of molecular properties. ACOMP theory practice and instrumentation and related techniques have been extensively described by the inventor and his co workers. Refs. 5 6 7 8 17 .

The single greatest problem in the practical use of ACOMP is the automatic continuous preparation of the mixed or diluted sample which continuously feeds the detector train. The problem is due chiefly to the high viscosities which develop during many polymerization reactions as well as the bubbles that can occur. Commercially available mixers are available that use either high pressure e.g. Dionex Waters or low pressure mixing schemes e.g. Isco . The problem with these devices is that they are designed and built to handle only low viscosity liquids. When one of the feeds to a low pressure mixing pump is a reactor whose viscosity increases during a polymerization reaction the mixing pump is incapable of maintaining a fixed volume withdrawal rate percentage. The result is that the lag time between withdrawal from the reactor and arrival of the mixed solution at the detectors becomes longer and longer as the reaction proceeds often times to unacceptable levels. When a high pressure mixing scheme is used bubbles produced either by the reaction itself or due to cavitation during pump withdrawal lead to the depriming of the withdrawal pump and failure to continue monitoring. The check valves and other plumbing in such pumps is also susceptible to becoming frozen by plugs of polymeric material that can solidify in the pumps during operation. It is apparent that pumps that rely on pulling reactor material with a vacuum 1 atmosphere or less are wholly unsuitable for ACOMP when viscosities are above about 150 centipoise cP i.e. arrangements of such pumps can typically follow a reaction from about 1 cP to about 150 cP.

On the other hand a variety of pumps exist that can handle highly viscous materials. Certain peristaltic pumps for example can pump liquids up to tens of thousands of cP whereas gear lobe and screw pumps can move liquids of millions of cP. Whereas this latter technology is highly developed for industries involving for example plastic injection and synthetic fiber production there is no available system that can accomplish the prerequisite of ACOMP Continuously withdraw a very small flow rate of material and mix it homogeneously with a solvent.

More information about the background of the inventions disclosed and claimed herein can be found in my patent applications mentioned herein.

Incorporated by reference are the following papers Florenzano Strelitzki and Reed vol. 31 pp. 7226 7238 1998 Absolute On line Monitoring of Molar Mass during Polymerization Reactions Strelitzki and Reed vol. 73 pp. 2359 2368 1999 Automated Batch Characterization of Polymer Solutions by Static Light Scattering and Viscometry Schimanowski Strelitzki Mullin and Reed Heterogeneous Time Dependent Static Light Scattering copy attached to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 404 484 .

The present invention is the first fully submersible SLS probe for absolute macromolecular characterization as opposed to particle counting nephelometry dynamic light scattering or relative concentration measurements . The optical assembly of the present invention can be completely immersed in the scattering medium. Thus the present invention includes a scattering probe which can go into the medium to be measured e.g. into test tubes production vats etc. and samples of the scattering medium need not be introduced into a transparent sample cell remote from the medium itself as is done in current systems. In the present invention the probe can be submerged in a variety of harsh environments as concerns temperature pressure and solvents and communicates to the remote electronic and signal processing portion via a harness containing fiber optic cables.

The present invention can be used in several distinct modes immersion fill mode insert mode and flow mode giving it wide versatility. The probe of the present invention is not constrained to be immersed in order to function. A small quantity of sample can also be placed in the optical assembly compartment for measurement in a fill mode . A sample in a transparent vial or cell can also be placed in the chamber or ring member for measurement. Also the probe can be hooked into a flowing stream of sample liquid for use in different applications such as polymer separation e.g. size exclusion chromatography and on line unfractionated flows of polymers in a vessel in equilibrium or undergoing polymerization aggregation cross linking or degradation processes.

The present invention can respond to the needs of a wide variety of users and applications by simply changing the inexpensive optical assembly since the detection electronics computer interfacing and basic software are all the same. For example a miniature probe with a 10 microliter channel could plug into the same detection analysis back end as a 50 milliliter optical probe designed for immersion at high temperatures. There is wide room for substitution of different diameter fibers with different acceptance angles number of photodetectors on the detection analysis back end etc.

The present invention does not require a transparent sample cell for the scattering solution. Unlike all current SLS systems for absolute macromolecular and colloidal characterization no glass or other transparent cell need intervene between the sample the detection fibers and the fiber or lens used for introducing the incident beam. Major advantages which this confers includes avoiding the expense maintenance and cleaning of transparent cells and minimizing glare and stray light because the optical assembly is preferably made from a very dark or black material and hence does not have highly reflective glass and or other dielectric surfaces causing spurious glare and reflections.

The optical probe portion of the present invention is preferably miniature in scale. Whereas other devices also use only small sample volumes those devices require that the sample be pumped or injected in through appropriate plumbing. In the present invention when used in the fill mode small quantities of sample can be simply pipetted or dropped into the optical assembly compartment where they reside during the measurement.

The probe can achieve both absolute calibration and self cleaning simultaneously when immersed in a proper solvent such as toluene. Furthermore because of the direct immersion there are no problems with index of refraction corrections associated with cells which do not maintain cylindrical symmetry about an axis perpendicular to the scattering plane. Hence well known non proprietary standard calibration procedures can be used for each detector.

The versatile scattering chamber is very inexpensive to fabricate and in some instances can be even treated as disposable. This contrasts to the generally high cost of the scattering cell detector assembly in prior art units.

Unlike existing SLS units the use of fiber optic detectors and narrow beam focusing make the system quite insensitive to alignment. This has the significant advantage of allowing the unit to operate with a simple coarse alignment whereas a high degree of alignment is normally required in existing systems. This is achieved because the acceptance cone of the fibers is fairly large typically 9 and the beam is collimated to usually less than 100 microns. Hence at a remove of 3 mm from the fiber the beam can be moved up and down approximately 0.5 mm for a 9 acceptance angle fiber without significantly changing the amount of scattered light entering the fiber.

Properly minimizing the scattering volume with a focused beam and using fiber optic detectors and fast detection electronics allow unfiltered samples to be measured even when no flow or other relative motion between sample and detector exists. This is a major advance considering that SLS in conventional instruments only became reliable after chemical filtration technologies improved considerably.

The present invention includes a submersible device which measures relative light scattered at various angles from a large number of scattering particles from which absolute macromolecular and colloidal characterization is made via well known non proprietary calibration procedures and the well known procedures of Zimm and others. The device need not contain an optically transparent cell interposed between the scattering medium and the incident optic delivering the incident beam and the optical fibers used for detection.

The submersible absolute macromolecular characterization device described in the previous paragraph preferably consists of a completely solid or perforated or striated or otherwise partially open solid piece a ring member or a cylinder with a channel inside into which sample liquid enters upon immersion. In this device polarized or unpolarized incident light provided by a laser or any other source of visible or ultraviolet light is led into the channel and spatially filtered with any suitable optical elements such as a tubular lens miniature convex lens flat window fiber optic irises etc. or any suitable combination. The light so led in can undergo any necessary degree of collimation including none in order to make as narrow an incident beam waist in the detected scattering volume as desired. Scattered light detection is preferably achieved by fiber optic strands or other fiber optic light conduits which are exposed to scattered light in the channel either by virtue of being recessed into the walls of the channel being flush with the walls of the channel or protruding into the channel. The degree of collimation of incident light and the diameter of the detecting fibers are combined to optimize the detected scattering volume for the particular sample to be measured. The transmitted incident light is preferably dumped using any standard beam dump arrangement such as a hole Rayleigh horn prism etc. The channel is preferably black or blackened to reduce glare and stray light from the incident beam. The delivery and detection optical train elements are preferably gathered into a harness leading to the photodetectors amplifiers and computer external to the light scattering probe.

Instead of the probe mentioned above which can be immersed in sampling liquid a different probe can be provided into whose channel plugged at one end rather a small quantity of sample liquid can be transferred e.g. by pipette or by scooping and therein reside while the scattering measurements are made.

Likewise a third probe having suitable liquid flow connectors need not be immersed in sampling liquid instead through its channel the sample liquid can be made to flow for scattering measurements.

The submersible absolute macromolecular characterization device described above can consist of a ring member not necessarily closed or circular e.g. rectangular elliptical horseshoe or any other shape capable of holding the light source fixed relative to the detection fibers or photodetector when detection fibers are not used containing the incident beam delivery optics beam dump and detection fibers and which can be immersed directly in a sample liquid for scattering measurements. Alternatively the submersible absolute macromolecular characterization device described above can consist of a ring member not necessarily closed or circular e.g. rectangular elliptical horseshoe etc. which can be placed inside of a chamber in a cell of appropriate dimension so as to protect it from the liquid it is immersed in ambient light or other factors or to otherwise control how sample liquid reaches the ring member for scattering measurements.

The present invention includes a method whereby any of the devices described above with appropriately small scattering volume can be used to measure sample solutions which may contain significant numbers of large scattering contaminants by using fast enough photodetector response to identify count and eliminate scattering intensity spikes produced by the contaminants thereby enabling the recovery of the uniform scattering background due to the population of polymers or colloids in the sample. The sample may be either stationary or flowing to accomplish this. Very roughly the number density of contaminant particles can be on the order of one per scattering volume so that very tiny scattering volumes allow for relatively higher concentrations of impurity to be present. The identified spikes can be counted and used to assess the particle density of large particles in a solution and how this number may change in time as well as simultaneously determining the absolute uniform scattering from a population of polymer or colloids.

The present invention also includes a method whereby the flow mode of the present invention described herein can be used to measure in real time the increase of the weight average molecular weight of polymers being produced in a solution of chemicals undergoing polymerization reactions. This method preferably includes the on line dilution of the polymer containing solution to bring it into a concentration range where useful absolute scattering can be measured. This range is where the quantity 2AcMis preferably smaller than 1 but can actually be as much as 10. Such dilution can be achieved by the use of hydraulically pulling polymer solution and pure solvent through an hydraulic T or other mixing chamber via a pump or other flow causing device. A concentration sensitive detector is preferably installed in the line of fluid flow so as to determine in real time the actual concentration of polymer in the diluted solution. Such a detector may be a refractive index monitor ultraviolet or visible spectrophotometer etc.

The present invention also includes a method whereby any of the devices herein described are used to monitor the changes in time of polymer solutions which are undergoing degradation polymerization aggregation gelling or phase separation.

The present invention also includes a method whereby any of the devices herein described are used to usefully characterize heterogeneous solutions containing populations of both polymers or colloids and large particulate scatterers whether either or both of these changes in time or not.

The present invention comprises a kit including light scattering devices of the type described herein whereby a wide variety of optical probes with widely varying dimensions sample capacities fiber optic types numbers of angles made of different materials to withstand different environments can be connected to the same back end of detection electronics signal processing and data analysis. The kit can also include the detection electronics signal processing and data analysis.

The present invention also includes a submersible light scattering probe for the absolute characterization of polymer and colloid solutions which includes a ring member made of a preferably dark opaque material having embedded therein a plurality of optical fibers which can be connected to optical detectors remote from the probe. The ends of the optical fibers are preferably in direct contact with the fluid being tested. Instead of submersing the probe in a fluid fluid can be caused to flow through the probe placed in the probe or placed in a transparent vessel placed in the probe. Individual large scattering particles can also be detected counted and characterized at the same time absolute characterization of the polymer or colloid solution is performed.

This method preferably includes the on line dilution of the polymer containing solution to bring it into a concentration range where useful absolute scattering can be measured. This range is where the quantity 2A2cMw is preferably smaller than 1 but can actually be as much as around 10 or even higher . Such dilution can be achieved by the use of hydraulically pulling polymer solution and pure solvent through an hydraulic T or other mixing chamber via a pump or other flow causing device. A concentration sensitive detector is preferably installed in the line of fluid flow so as to determine in real time the actual concentration of polymer in the diluted solution. Such a detector may be a refractive index monitor ultraviolet or visible spectrophotometer etc.

The present invention also includes a method whereby heterogeneous solutions containing populations of both polymers or colloids and large particulate scatterers can be characterized whether either or both of these changes in time or not.

Similarly other types of polymers and or colloids could be in the first vessel and solvent 1 could be of one type e.g. pure water and solvent 2 could be of another type e.g. an alcohol or other solvent miscible in water . In this way the effects of changing solvent composition on the polymer and or colloid could be continuously assessed online. Many other variations are possible since the second solvent could also contain a polymer and or colloid which interacts with the first polymer and or colloid solution. The three vessel arrangement hence allows complete phase diagrams to be obtained online. Another area of use would be to determine under what solvent conditions globular polymers such as proteins become denatured into random coils.

The device of one embodiment of the present invention consists of a pump capable of continuously pumping fluids of arbitrarily high viscosities at a fixed or programmably changing dilution factor even when the viscosity of the fluid varies immensely e.g. six orders of magnitude over time. Such a pump will normally be of the gear lobe screw or peristaltic type. This primary pump may optionally use a recirculation of the vessel fluid to insure fresh sampling at every moment in which a fraction of this recirculating flow is either continuously or at intervals mixed with a larger volume of solvent which is pumped by a separate pump for which less stringent specifications are required since it always pumps a low viscosity fluid. The fluids emanating from the primary and solvent pumps are mixed via a mixing chamber which can take any number of forms e.g. a microbore T type mixer an actively stirred micro chamber a passive mixer or combination of the above. Either during or directly after mixing the liquid passes through a vented chamber at atmospheric pressure so that bubbles of gas will be exhaled and not introduced into the detector feed. After mixing debubbling and any other conditioning stages e.g. heating to evaporate monomer the mixed liquid is pumped by a final pump through the detector train whose output optionally incorporates another dilution stage either at high or low pressure before pumping to the detector train. The detector train itself contains means of determining the concentration if necessary of the polymeric or colloidal solute such that it is not imperative that the dilution be performed to high accuracy.

Because all the pumps used are potentially controllable by a programmable logic controller personal computer palm pilot or other electronic device containing a microprocessor the ability to control both the dilution factor and various flow rates is straightforward.

The preferred embodiment of the present invention is a submersible light probe see including a ring member made of a preferably dark opaque material having embedded therein a plurality of optical fibers which can be connected to optical detectors see remote from the probe . The ends of the optical fibers are preferably in direct contact with the fluid see being tested. In a first variation of the invention see fluid is caused to flow through the probe . In a second variation see a base plate is added so that the ring member can contain a fluid to be tested. In a third variation of testing see a clear container containing fluid to be tested is placed through the ring member . In yet another variation of the invention preferably only when the probe is not submersible photodetectors can replace the optical fibers.

The purpose of the probe is to measure light scattering by particles in a fluid static light scattering SLS .

It is believed that this is the first probe for SLS or TDSLS where light detectors the optical fibers are actually in the fluid as opposed to being separated from the fluid by glass or some other media.

The preferred embodiment of the present invention consists of an optical assembly from which a harness of fiber optic cables leads out detected scattered light to a remote photodetector and signal processing unit and optionally brings in incident light. The signal processing unit is itself composed of standard components such as photodiodes photomultiplier tubes amplifiers discriminators microcomputer etc.

The optical assembly preferably consists of a solid material. The minimal version consists of a ring member around which the fiber optic detectors incident beam input optics and beam dump are arrayed see for this embodiment . The optical fibers are either cemented into holes in the ring member or are affixed with tiny optical fiber chucks not shown and are gathered into a ruggedized harness which is led to the photodetector assembly . The optical assembly can be connected to a handle which may contain a laser and can be immersed directly in a sample solution see . The ring member can also be mounted on a base plate . The ring member can also serve as a center portion for a segmented chamber to the endpieces of which are connected hydraulic fittings for fluid to be pumped in and out through in the flow mode . A small baseplate can be attached to the ring member assembly for fill mode use or the bore in the ring member assembly simply need not be perforated all the way through. For insert mode a sample vial can be inserted directly into the ring member assembly . In cases where ambient light might give detectable interference the ring can be covered with a simple cowl or hood in both immersion fill and insert modes. In the tests presented below ambient light was not a problem and no cowl or covering was used.

An integral chamber version see can also be made and consists of a hollow channel or wall normally cylindrical but which may also have elliptical square or polygonal cross section. The chief difference between the minimal ring version and integral chamber version is that the chamber is simply longer than the ring chamber so that hydraulic fittings can be directly connected. Furthermore the extra length provides additional shielding from ambient light and no cowl or other covering should generally be needed.

In either the ring version or chamber version the internal diameter can be made over a wide range depending on the application. Typically this diameter will run from about 1 mm to 20 cm. The total channel volume may range for example from about 3 to 50 000 microliters with a preferred range of 10 to 1000 microliters. The wider the channel diameter the less problem there will be with stray light but more sample solution will be required. In industrial settings for example where large volumes of sample are produced and or the samples are viscous high volume cells may be a convenient solution and pose the most robust and reliable means of achieving low stray light and highest ease of alignment. In situations where sample volume is scarce e.g. in biotechnology research where only milligrams or less of substance is available the channel will be made much narrower. Because the optical detection fibers can plug into the same remote array of photodetectors the only change in fabrication in meeting the demands of the high sample volume vs. the low volume user is in the low cost optical probe assembly . All photodetection electronics computer interfacing and basic software can remain the same.

In the walls of either the ring member or chamber versions are seated an optical window lens fiber or other component for delivering the incident beam into the channel as well as optical fibers for detection of scattered light placed at any number of scattering angles usually from about 10 in the forward direction to about 170 in the backscattering direction. A detection fiber can also be placed at the site of the beam dump 0 . The fibers can be cemented into holes in the chamber or held in with tiny optical fiber chucks. Hence the delivery element for the incident light and the optical fibers are in direct contact with the sample solution or may be coated with a suitable transparent material including glass for protection against deleterious sample solutions. In the case for example where only a single or few angles are desired small photodetectors such as photodiodes can be affixed directly to the outside wall of the chamber thus eliminating the optical fibers .

The body of the optical assembly in either ring member or chamber versions can be constructed of any material suitable to withstand the nature of the sample solution such as stainless steel black anodized aluminum ceramic Teflon nylon polycarbonate or other plastics. The material is preferably opaque preferably black or blackened to minimize glare and stray light.

The power of the incident light is arbitrary but will typically range from 0.1 to 100 mW. For good detectability and economy the power range will preferably be from 0.25 to 50 mW. The wavelength can likewise fall anywhere in the visible or ultraviolet range. Since there are no requirements for coherence unless a single mode optical fiber is installed optionally to collect light for dynamic light scattering in which case a laser light source would be required nor does the incident light have to be extremely monochromatic a bandwidth of 50 nm would not be excessive the light source does not have to be a laser. As such conventional white light broad band or discrete line sources such as arc lamps light emitting diodes vapor lamps and incandescent sources are all possible candidates for the incident light. By the same token if a multiple wavelength source is used it is possible to vary the scattering vector q q by introducing different discrete wavelengths and detecting at a single angle e.g. by selecting wavelengths with a monochromator in front of a white light source and introducing these into the input optics. Using light from around 200 to 800 nm could yield a factor of four variation in q. This could avoid use of multiangle detection and require only a single fiber optic for detection and single photodetector amplifier. On the other hand if both multi angle detection and multiple wavelengths are used then say for wavelengths from 200 to 800 nm and scattering angles from 15 to 170 the factor of q can be varied by as much as a factor of 30. Appropriate collimation and or focusing optics are usually needed to introduce the source beam into the channel.

In many applications use of a laser may be preferred. A laser source would preferably be around 200 1000 nm and more preferably 450 to 780 nm where the majority of economical low power commercial lasers operate. The laser beam is preferably focused at or near the center of the hollow channel although an uncollimated or reduced and re collimated beam will also work. The beam waist can range from the diffraction limit of Gaussian beams f D where is the incident wavelength D the unfocused laser beam waist diameter and the lens focal length typically on the order of 1 to 200 microns up to a 2 mm unfocused beam. The preferred beam waist diameter will depend on the intended application and would be given as an option to a potential user of the invention according to their needs. For example measurement of dilute solutions of small clean solutions would tend to use a wider beam waist whereas concentrated solutions containing significant stray scatterers would preferably use a very highly collimated beam. Use of a highly focused beam and detectors defining a small scattering volume allows less probability of finding large particles in the scattering volume at any instant. When a large particle enters either with the sample stationary or under flow a large spike is produced which can then be recognized and discriminated against in order to recover the absolute scattering from the desired scatterers. Sufficiently fast detector response allows spikes to be identified counted for purposes of large particle counting and eliminated to recover the desired background scattering.

The method of delivering the beam can be directly through an optical window on the chamber via a tubular transfer lens such as the endo index type or via an optical fiber either flexible or rigid with such lenses pinholes and other light handling components as is necessary to deliver the beam in focused or collimated fashion with the desired beam waist and with a minimum of glare and stray light. If the beam is delivered by optical fiber the laser can be remote from the optical assembly. Alternatively the laser can be mounted directly to the optical assembly .

Directly across from the incident beam is a beam dump for the incident beam to minimize glare and stray light. This beam dump may be of any standard type ranging from a hole to a Rayleigh horn to a complete sub system involving coated or un coated lenses and or prisms mirrors a photodetector or other optical components.

The optical fibers may be of the multimode variety whose inside diameter may range from 10 to 1000 microns the smaller sizes being preferred where highly scattering samples are being measured or for subsequent use with dynamic light scattering. In fact a single relatively large fiber diameter may be selected such as 500 microns and a rotatable annular mask can be affixed to the channel wall which would have varying diameter pinholes for defining the field of view of each optical fiber. Alternatively the cell interior may be permanently outfitted with sets of different diameter fibers spaced closely about each selected scattering angle all of which could be continuously monitored. The fibers themselves can be of virtually any commercial or research grade. They must be chosen however so as to be compatible with the solvent and sample conditions where the invention will be applied. Where toluene is used for example the fibers must withstand that solvent so glass core fibers with glass cladding and buffer would be preferred or some similar substitute such as glass core with CPE chloropolysulfatal ethylene jacket from Belden corporation.

The way the optical fibers are attached to the cell helps to define the scattering volume. If the fibers reach through the cell to the surface of the channel chamber then the scattering angle will be defined by both the acceptance angle of the fiber in the particular solvent the cell contains and the beam waist. Definition of the scattering volume in this way can be termed the fiber acceptance angle mode . If the fiber is recessed back into a hole in the chamber to the point where the angle subtended by the two ends of the cylindrical hole is less than the acceptance angle of the fiber then detection can be said to be in the pinhole mode . The difference in detection modes is shown schematically in .

The optical harness leads all the detection fibers to a remote bank of photodetectors . The fibers can be coupled to their respective detectors by inserting them into permanently aligned quick connect optical fiber connectors as are commercially available e.g. Newark Corp. or Amphenol Corp. positioned in front of the detector surfaces.

The optical assembly can be used in several modes. In one of its submersible modes the assembly with no additional modifications can be directly submerged into a sample solution contained in a test tube industrial tank etc. As a remote fill mode unit the channel may be capped at one end or the channel simply does not have to be bored completely through which allows a small quantity of sample to be pipetted scooped or otherwise introduced into it and reside in it remotely from the main sample supply if desired. Each end of the channel may also be outfitted with a coupling to accept a fluid flow so that the assembly may also be used in flow mode such as for monitoring optionally with on line dilution unfractionated polymers degraded or produced in a vat fractionated polymers from Size Exclusion Chromatography capillary hydrodynamic fractionation etc. In this mode of operation it may be desirable to hydrodynamically taper the interior to optimize the flow past the plane of the optical fibers and incident beam. The invention can also be used in insert mode whereby samples in sealed cells or vials can simply be inserted into the ring member or chamber in the traditional fashion. In this case one returns to the common situation in which there is a transparent cell between the sample incident beam and detection optics.

The invention can be simultaneously cleaned and absolutely calibrated by use of an appropriate solvent such as toluene whose absolute Rayleigh scattering ratio is known. The probe is immersed in the solvent or the solvent made to flow through it for cleaning purposes. At the same time the solvent scattering is monitored and when it reaches a steady value this is used for determination of the absolute calibration factors for each detection fiber.

As regards the minimal ring member version it can be used submersibly on its own or become a central portion of a three piece unit. This may be desirable for purposes where quick interchange of optical assemblies to different specifications cleaner or newer units are made etc.

In both the ring member version and integral chamber version an outer protective sheathing such as a ring member of plastic or metal may slip over the fiber optics protruding externally from the ring member or chamber wall . Likewise in all cases the entire optical assembly whether a ring member or chamber can be placed within a completely enclosed housing into which sample can be introduced either by flow or immersion. Such a housing may be desirable when the optical assembly needs special protection from a harsh e.g. high temperature environment or is immersed in turbulent or otherwise potentially damaging or signal distorting liquids.

The present invention includes the aforementioned ring member or integral chamber SLS probe. The incident beam is introduced into the device via optical window or a fiber optic and or tubular lens and other optical elements and scattered light is taken out via fiber optics whose tips are arrayed at various angles in the horizontal plane of the ring member or chamber wall . All the optical fibers and elements are drawn together into an optical harness which is led to the outside world through a hollow handle on the device . The optical fibers carrying scattered light and issuing from the harness are coupled to conventional optical detectors e.g. PIN or avalanche photodiodes photomultiplier tubes etc. whose voltage or current signals are led to a conventional signal processing device and or into a computer . The optical probe portion consists essentially of a piece of material preferably dark with optical fibers and a few other inexpensive optical elements such as borosilicate windows attached into a harness. As such the probe itself should be quite inexpensive and could even be disposable. The photodetectors signal processing and computer analysis portions of the instrument are remote and permanent although quite portable and represent the major cost. In some cases especially where few angles are involved and submersible operation is not a priority photodetectors e.g. photodiodes can be mounted directly to the chamber thus avoiding use of the fiber optic detectors.

In the submersible mode calibration and cleaning can be done by merely immersing the probe in a calibration solvent kept handy in a closed vessel. This could be toluene or any other solution whose absolute Rayleigh scattering ratio is known.

The software in Appendix A of parent patent application Ser. No. 08 969 386 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 184 can serve as a basis for data reduction analysis and display. Data can be collected and reduced either on a standard microcomputer or by building a customized microprocessor based unit. The software can include programmed criteria for averaging scattering signals identifying counting and rejecting scattering spikes from large stray scatterers and informing the operator when signal collection is done. Software can access on board libraries to inform the operator of likely phenomena occurring in the sample e.g. aggregation gelation degradation and problems such as poor solution quality e.g. too much dust presence of aggregates or other anomalies.

A first prototype of the invention in the integral chamber version was made in order to assess whether absolute macromolecular characterization in terms of molecular mass was feasible. This is meant to be only a demonstration of the feasibility of the invention not a highly precise absolute molecular mass determination nor critical comparison of the invention s performance with a commercial instrument.

Dextran of nominal mass 200 000 300 000 g mole was selected for the measurement. It was mixed at 0.003 g cmin an aqueous solvent containing 0.1 Molar NHNOand 0.1 sodium azide for protection against bacterial contamination. There is nothing special about this particular solvent and even pure water would have been adequate since dextran is a neutral polymer and is not subject to the unusual physical effects that charged polymers display in pure water .

An optical unit was fabricated from a 1 inch long piece of e.g. black nylon round stock of o.d. An inner cylindrical channel of diameter 7.7 mm was bored concentric with the axis. The inner ends of the channel were tapped to accommodate standard plugs barbs and other hydraulic fittings. Perpendicular to the cylinder axis a hole was drilled to accommodate a 1.98 mm o.d. Endogrins lens obtained from Edmund Scientific Co. Straight across from this hole on the opposite side of the channel a larger diameter hole was drilled for use as a beam dump. At 90 to the incident light hole a small hole was drilled to accommodate an optical fiber with inner core 100 microns and cladding 140 micron o.d. The fiber was inserted into the hole in the channel and was found to work best when protruding but slightly from the hole into the channel. Both the fiber and lens were secured in their holes with optical putty. The opposite end of the fiber which was about two feet long was secured remotely from the optical assembly into a fiber optic chuck from New Focus Co. and butted up against the photosensitive surface of a Hammamatsu photodiode with integral FET op amp contained inside a light tight box containing both the diode FET and an additional standard operational amplifier stage.

The amplified signal was fed into a Nicolet 4094B digitizing oscilloscope although any data collection device with a rate of 1 KHz or faster would have sufficed. Sampling at 1 KHz or faster allows spikes from diffusing impurity particles and fluctuating scattering levels to be recognized and rejected leaving the desired signal from the polymer or colloid scatterers. In fact spike and fluctuation rejection was used in this and other tests.

Light of wavelength 488 nm and approximately 20 mW was from a Coherent Corp. Argon ion laser which had an output beam waist of about 2 mm. The light could be delivered either highly focused or uncollimated. For high focusing a 5 mm lens with a focal length f 5 mm from Edmund Scientific was placed external to the optical assembly and led to a beam waist of about 1.5 microns. This was transferred into the channel of the optical assembly via the 1.98 mm Endogrins lens which was 6 cm long. Alignment of the delivered beam with respect to the detection fiber optic at 90 and signal maximization for this arrangement was achieved by using a solution consisting of a 1 40 dilution of 190 Angstrom latex spheres from Duke Scientific although any moderately scattering solution such as water with a tiny drop of milk or coffee creamer powder would be adequate.

The system was then tested by measuring sequentially the photodiode dark count i.e. with no laser beam entering the optical assembly the photovoltage with pure water with a 3 mg ml solution of dextran and toluene. The various liquids were introduced into and removed from the cell with a long glass pipette with a rubber suction bulb at one end. The photovoltages are listed below 

The results for the dextran are shown in the above table. The apparent mass of 174 000 at 90 is obtained from the invention and 191 000 from the Wyatt Dawn F at 144 . At these angles qis approximately the same for each instrument. At any rate R 225 Angstroms for this Dextran as measured on the Dawn F so that there is very little qdependence over the visible light range.

The fact that the apparent mass from the invention is within 10 of the value of that obtained from an established instrument clearly demonstrates the feasibility of making absolute molecular mass determinations. Refinement of the instrumentation should make results even more accurate. At any rate it is generally recognized in the SLS field that molecular weights of polydisperse samples are seldom accurate to more than a few percent.

A similar chamber with no hydraulic fittings was made except that it was outfitted with detection fibers at 70 90 and 135 and two opposed 3 mm sapphire windows glued into holes in the chamber were used for beam ingress and egress. Toluene was used for absolute calibration at each angle. Zimm plot results from a solution of high molecular weight PVP are shown in . Ten mW of argon ion laser power were used and a 50 mm focal length lens was used to focus the laser beam through the window in the chamber.

An immersion cell was constructed from nylon roundstock of 16 mm outer diameter and 12 mm i.d. and 8 mm long. 150 micron optical fibers were glued in with epoxy at 45 90 and 150 with their front surfaces at the level of the inner cell diameter face. Two 3 mm holes were cut in opposite ends of the cylinder and were left empty for the tests i.e. neither entrance window nor beam dump were used . The optical fibers leading to the remote detector were secured so that no additional bending or deformation of them occurred since additional bending or deforming leads to large losses in transmitted light. A tubular stainless steel handle was attached to the cylinder to allow for manipulation. The cylinder was immersed in 3 diameter beakers containing the test liquids and the handle protruding from the solution was secured with a ringstand. 20 mW of Argon ion laser power were delivered in a beam from above the beakers and a 50 mm focal length lens was used to focus the light in the center of the cylindrical chamber.

Scattering tests at the three angles were carried out using 0.2 1.0 1.5 and 2.0 mg ml solutions of a high molecular weight polymer PVP. A digitizing oscilloscope was again used to monitor the detected light at each angle one at a time. These solutions were unfiltered. Identification and rejection of spikes from large impurity particles diffusing through the scattering volume and fluctuating signals from other causes allowed this unusual series of measurements on unfiltered solutions to be made. The scattering voltage of toluene at each angle was used to find the absolute calibration factor at each angle. shows typical results. These compare quite favorably with the results for the fill mode example above 1 B .

A 3 piece flow cell was constructed out of nylon roundstock of 16 mm o.d The central portion was 8 mm long with a 7 mm bore and contained a single 300 micron fiber epoxied in at a scattering angle of 90 . Two 3 mm sapphire windows were mounted on opposite sides of the central bore one for laser beam ingress the other for egress. Endcaps of the same material and o.d. pressed on each side of the central portion and O rings created a seal. Round aluminum plates outfitted with long bolts served to clamp the endcaps to the central piece. The endcaps each had a small hole drilled in them for fluid to reach the bore of the central portion and each was outfitted with a standard GPC fitting allowing attachment of standard PEEK polyethyleneethyleneketone HPLC high performance liquid chromatography tubing to allow liquid samples to be pumped in and out.

The basic construction of the center portion can be identical to that of the immersion cell making the two ultimately interchangeable or at least slight modular variations of each other. Also these cells can easily become fill mode cells by simply adding a base plate as in the drawings .

Solutions of high molecular weight PVP of concentrations 0.25 0.5 1.5 and 2.0 mg ml were pushed through the cell manually with a syringe at roughly 1 ml min. The experiment was repeated several times and error bars obtained. Kc I at 90 is shown in along with the associated error bars and a comparison with results from a Wyatt Dawn F. Ten mW of argon ion laser power were used and a 50 mm focal length lens was used to focus the laser beam through the window in the chamber.

The present inventor wrote program REEDFLO see Appendix A of parent patent application Ser. No. 08 969 386 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 184 to capture data through a DT2801 a analog to digital converter board and perform averaging and data storage functions. Maximum speed is about 40 microseconds per point with this board and up to eight separate detectors can be monitored per board in the differential input mode. The idea was first tested as to whether the flow cell with small scattering volume could usefully measure both absolute polymer scattering levels and identify and count spikes from large particles. Ten mW of argon ion laser power were used and a 50 mm focal length lens was used to focus the laser beam through the window in the chamber. The scattering volume was roughly 5 10cc.

To this end a mixture of 0.5 mg ml PVP of molar mass around 106 grams mole was mixed with Duke Scientific 10 micron latex spheres such that the sphere concentration was 4 10particles per cc. This gave roughly an average of 0.02 particles per scattering volume. The solution was pushed through the cell manually using a syringe roughly at a flow rate of 1 ml minute. The 5 mW diode laser wavelength 635 nm was used as the light source.

The kinetics of polymerization were carried out in real time using the flow cell. A 5 mW diode laser was used and a 50 mm focal length lens was used to focus the laser beam through the window in the cell. A 30 solution of vinyl pyrrolidone VP monomer was mixed in water with 0.1 ammonia and the solution heated to 80 C. The polymerization was initiated with 0.7 hydrogen peroxide. At high concentrations such as 30 VP there is very little change in light scattering intensity as polymerization proceeds i.e. in eq. 1 2Ac is much larger than 1 M 1 q 3 . Hence the reaction solution must be diluted for TDSLS to be a useful monitor of Min real time. To do this concentrated reactant is withdrawn with a pump and mixed with solvent from a separate reservoir of pure solvent. This can be achieved by using a hydraulic T one arm of which goes to the concentrated reaction solution and the other to the pure solvent with the mixed output being then pumped out by a pump and forced through the scattering flow chamber. It turned out that use of a programmable mixer was more convenient for mixing reactant and pure solvents. A standard ISCO corporation 2350 HPLC pump was used to pull mixed material from this pump and push it through the flow cell and refractive index RI detector which was placed in series with the flow to measure the concentration and any possible variations of the diluted sample. For this experiment the reaction mixture initially at 30 VP was diluted so that the sample passing through the flow chamber was at 6 mg ml.

Preferably optical fibers are attached to ring member with fiber optic light chucks such as those commercially available from Upchurch Company.

The reason the technique will not work for undiluted reactor liquid is detailed in the cited reference. In brief at high concentrations of monomer and polymer the total scattering from the solution will usually be dominated by inter polymer effects and will not accurately reflect the average molecular mass of the individual polymer chains which is the desired quantity. Sufficient dilution in this case online insures that the scattering is dominated by the Mw of the polymers and not inter polymer effects.

The two vessel scheme has been used by Strelitzki and Reed ref. 7 to automate batch characterization of polymer solutions in conjunction with refractive index multi angle LS and viscometric detectors. The advantages over the manual dilution methods have been detailed above.

The two vessel scheme has also been used by Strelitzki and Reed unpublished results to investigate the electroviscous effect in polyelectrolyte solutions. To accomplish this polyelectrolytes hyaluronic acid xanthan and poly styrene sulfonate were used were dissolved at about 1 mg ml in a low strength NaCl solution these generally ran the range from OM to 0.001M NaCl and placed in the first vessel. A stock solution of salt at the same concentration as in the first vessel was placed in the second vessel and the gradient programmer was set to perform a continuous dilution of the polyelectrolyte from its full concentration in the first vessel to zero or vice versa. Because the original polyelectrolyte solution also contains the counterions of the polyelectrolyte the actual ionic strength of the solution is higher than the nominal ionic strength due to the added NaCl. As dilution of the polyelectrolyte takes place with pure solvent of the same nominal ionic strength the total ionic strength of the diluted polyelectrolyte solution actually decreases since the counterion concentration decreases with dilution which leads to the electroviscous effect. Typical online electroviscous data for hyaluronic acid is shown in .

All measurements disclosed herein are at standard temperature and pressure at sea level on Earth unless indicated otherwise. All materials used or intended to be used in a human being are biocompatible unless indicated otherwise.

Attached as Appendix A to parent patent application Ser. No. 08 969 386 is data collection and storage software which can be used as a basis for more complex software to perform absolute macromolecular characterization and electronically filter out count and characterize large scattering particles.

As used herein large scattering particle LSP means an individual particle which would produce scattered light greater than the noise level of the detector in for example the noise level is around 0.04V and the large scattering particles are indicated at about 12 seconds 26 seconds 38 seconds and 46 seconds in addition to other locations . A LSP could be unwanted impurities aggregates of the polymer or colloid being studied or an integral part of the solution.

The detectors and interface operate at a rate fast enough to resolve the residence time of a large scattering particle in the scattering volume. The interface between the photodetector and the computer can be a voltage converting or a current converting interface.

Preferably the scattering volume is chosen such that the number of large scattering particles is small enough to not prevent absolute macromolecular characterization of the substance being studied and preferably small enough to not significantly interfere with absolute macromolecular characterization of the substance being studied. For example the average number of LSPs in the scattering volume can be less than 1000 preferably less than 500 more preferably less than 200 even more preferably less than 100 still more preferably less than 50 even more preferably less than 20 even more preferably less than 10 most preferably less than 5. The average number of LSPs in the scattering volume can be even 0 to 1.

The present invention is a relatively inexpensive simple versatile apparatus for use in SLS and TDSLS.

The size range of detectability can be for example 20 Angstroms to 100 microns. The size range of detectability should run from about 20 Angstroms to 100 microns with useful measurability in the range from 20 Angstroms to 2 microns and a preferred range from about 20 Angstroms to 5000 Angstroms. Stated in terms of molar mass the detectable range of particles should run from about 500 g mole to 1014 g mole with useful measurability in the range of 500 g mole to 10g mole with a preferred range from about 1000 g mole to 10g mole.

The transmission means for transmitting light from the light detection means to the photodetectors is preferably of a sufficient length and flexibility to allow the submersible probe to be submersed in the fluid to be sampled without submersing the photodetectors and to allow the other probes to be remote from the photodetectors which is helpful when the probe is to be used in harsh environments which might damage the photodetectors and associated electronics.

As used in the claims light source can refer to a window lens or optical fiber for letting light in from a light generator such as a laser.

The novelty of one aspect of the present invention consists in providing an automatically and continuously diluted or mixed stream of polymer from polymer containing vessels whose viscosity is too high to allow current and conventional devices to provide such streams.

While several devices for automatic dilution have been patented none appear to work over the wide viscosity ranges encountered in the types of polymer systems of main interest in this field. Most that are applicable in the polymer area are more concerned with sampling and diluting relatively low viscosity fluids containing a large amount of particulate matter e.g. polymer latex microemulsions and so on. For example Garcia Rubio et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 907 108 have disclosed a sampling and dilution system that provides a high degree of dilution but is oriented towards e.g. emulsion polymerizations where reactor fluid viscosity is not high. Other devices include those of Nicoli and Elings U.S. Pat. No. 4 794 806 which again is oriented towards low viscosity fluids. Bysouth s invention U.S. Pat. No. 5 801 820 is chiefly concerned with dilution of concentrated but not viscous liquids for absorption spectroscopic measurement.

Likewise commercially available mixing units such as the ISCO Waters and the Dionex are all incapable of mixing fluids whose viscosities exceed two or three hundred cP. These latter are all piston pumps which cavitate and lose prime when the fluid viscosity becomes high and or bubbles are introduced into their input.

Thus the current invention fills a need not currently filled by existing patents or commercial devices.

The device consists of the following elements A pump for withdrawing liquid from the polymer vessel a pump for withdrawing solvent from a solvent reservoir a scheme for homogeneously mixing the reactor contents and the solvent and a means of pumping the mixed solution to the detector train. Often times a secondary dilution stage will be used to achieve even higher levels of dilution than is feasible with a single stage.

Means of withdrawing the liquid from the reactor preferably include but are not limited to peristaltic lobe gear and screw pumps and their variants and certain specialty piston pumps such as are commercially available from Fluid Metering Inc. of Syosset N.Y. . Means of pumping solvent include any of the above mentioned pumps but also piston and other pumps suitable for pumping low viscosity liquids. Means for homogeneously mixing include micro mixing T type chambers actively stirred microchambers mixing chambers with static mixing elements or any combination of these. The homogeneously mixed solution can be pumped to the detector train with any of the above mentioned pumps including the low viscosity handling types since the mixed solution will be of low viscosity.

The gear pump is fed from the reactor by gravity and pumps the reactor liquid at a desired rate such as 0.1 to 10 ml minute and recirculates the majority of the liquid back into the reactor whereas a small amount is diverted either continuously or in discrete pulses towards the mixing chamber. The diversion to the mixing chamber can occur continuously by providing a Y fitting such that the resistances of the return and mixing chamber feed paths have the desired relationship to feed the mixing chamber at the desired rate. Alternatively the Y fitting can be replaced by a solenoid valve with a diverter outlet allowing pulses of material to be output to the chamber while the diverter port is electromechanically opened. This solenoid valve would be under the control of a programmable logic controller PLC .

In turn the solvent is pumped to the mixing chamber by any type of pump desired such as a peristaltic pump. The mixing chamber might receive the reactor solvent flows with partial pre mix e.g. by interposing a micro mixing T between the two pumps and the mixing chamber or the chamber might accept the flows directly.

The contents of the mixing chamber can feed the detector train directly or a second dilution stage might be used.

When viscosity does not become extremely high it may sometimes be desirable to substitute a peristaltic or other lower viscosity handling pump in place of the gear or screw pump. Two main reasons for doing this are 1 a peristaltic pump can prime itself and withdraw material from a reactor without gravity feed and 2 the peristaltic pumps are often more economical than gear pumps.

There are cases where recirculation may not be desired or may not be necessary. In the former category might be found certain high purity products normally falling under governmental food and drug guidelines which cannot be re introduced into a vessel or reactor once withdrawn. In the latter category may fall cases where lag time is not a critical issue and many minutes possibly tens of minutes constitute acceptable lagtimes. In such cases the mixing chamber can be fed directly by the reactor withdrawal pump at suitable low flow rates.

Performing pre mixing can be advantageous in certain circumstances. For example the reactor may contain highly corrosive materials that should be diluted to a certain level before allowing it to pass through any downstream pumps. Or a large dilution factor may be desired in which case large dilutions can be efficiently made as the product of two or more separate dilutions. A predilution scheme allows both low and high pressure mixing since the first mixing stage can be made at low pressure exhaling bubbles in the process and a second stage mixing can be done at high pressure. Also predilution can in some instances reduce lag time especially if the low pressure mixing chamber is allowed to fill more rapidly than it is pumped out by the detector feed pump. In this case there will normally be an overflow of mixing chamber liquid to waste.

The Y diversion scheme is based ideally on Poisseuille s law which states that the flow rate Q of a liquid of viscosity through a pressure drop P along a capillary of radius R and length L is given by

ACOMP experiments have demonstrated the deleterious effects of bubbles entering the detector train. In fact bubbles in the detector train must be avoided at all cost if reliable operation and online analysis is to be maintained. The best safeguard against bubbles is to perform the mixing of reactor liquid and solvent at low pressure so that the bubbles are exhaled and vented to atmosphere thus never entering the pump line to the detectors.

The mixing chamber itself can be of the active or passive type. In either case reactor fluid and solvent are led into the chamber by tubing either individually or pre mixed where mixing and any exhalation of bubbles takes place. An active mixer employs a means of stirring for example any sort of micro propeller mounted on a rotating shaft. Heating is optional. The mixed fluid is automatically withdrawn from the chamber and pumped through the detector train.

In a passive mixing chamber the reactor fluid and solvent are led in either separately or pre mixed and the static mixing elements in the chamber ensure that mixing occurs.

Optionally the mixing chamber can have a level sensor which when coupled to a PLC will maintain a steady level. A simpler embodiment is to simply equip the chamber with an overflow outlet to waste for maintaining a given level.

Inevitably there is a lag time between the reactor and the detectors. Normally a lag time of up to several minutes is quite acceptable both for laboratory and plant level ACOMP. The length of the lag time is purely a question of pump chamber and tubing volumes and flow rates. In principle it can be made almost arbitrarily small. For example in a recirculating system fresh material can be continuously circulated to the diversion of either Y or solenoid types at a rate of several ml min. This means that fresh reactor fluid presents itself to the diversion within seconds of withdrawal from the reactor. If the tubing connection to the chamber has low dead volume e.g. a few tens of microliters then the fresh reactor liquid will enter the chamber within seconds of reaching the diversion. The time from the mixing chamber to the detectors can likewise be on the order of seconds so that the entire lag time can easily be kept under one minute.

The net dead volume from the diversion to the detectors will determine the system response time the dead volume of the mixing chamber being the single largest source. Since the average ideal residence time is mixing chamber volume divided by the flow rate of withdrawal from the chamber the response time can be kept low. For example withdrawing from a 0.5 ml chamber at a rate of 2 ml min gives a 15 second response time. The response time sets the minimum time interval over which a change in the state of reactor fluid can be measured whereas the lag time is the delay between sampling an instantaneous state and making a measurement on it.

Because this device is designed to work on a wide variety of polymeric and colloidal fluids it will be desirable in certain instances to provide further sampling conditioning before the diluted fluid enters the detection train. Examples follow 

Debubbling. This is one of the most common forms of sample conditioning and is most easily accomplished by providing a micro mixing chamber vented to atmospheric pressure so that bubbles are exhaled.

Monomer and other small molecule evaporation. There will be times when it is not desirable to have monomer in the dilution stream along with polymer. An example is the case where there is not a significant spectroscopic difference between the monomer and polymer so that the relative concentrations are not easily determined. Because of the small volumes used by the device it is easy to provide a small heated vented chamber for rapid evaporation of small molecules either before or after the dilution stage.

Breaking self organizing microstructures. For monitoring inhomogeneous phase reactions such as those occurring in self organizing microstructures SOM like microemulsion or micellar polymerization it will be necessary to release the contents of the SOM into the diluted sample stream. This might occur by changing the solvent polarity ionic content hydrophobicity etc. in a conditioning module.

Filtration. Many reactors have large particles such as microcrystals microgels bacteria aggregates etc. which are a desired or undesired part of the reaction itself. In many cases it will be necessary to remove such particulates in order for the detector train to function properly. Hence a filtration device mounted in line with the device may often be required. In some cases hydrophobic or hydrophilic filtration may be used to block a solvent component from entering the detector train.

In some cases filtration may occur after certain detectors but before others. For example in the Heterogeneous Time Dependent Light Scattering HTDSLS case it may be necessary or desirable to let large particles e.g. up to several microns pass through the light scattering detector and possibly also the viscometer. Such particles however normally should not be let to flow through the RI and UV detectors as it might damage them or lead to spurious signals. In such a case a filter can be placed after the light scattering and viscometer if desired but before the RI and UV detectors.

Sample dissolution. In some cases e.g. fluidized bed reactors and pressurized vessels producing slurries the polymer of interest may be produced in particulate or pelletized form. The conditioning stage in this instance would dissolve the solid or slurry material prior to or simultaneous to diluting it with solvent.

In this embodiment the detector train consists of a single or multi angle light scattering detector LS a refractometer RI a viscometer V and an ultra violet visible spectrophotometer UV . Other types and combinations of detectors are possible. For example one or more of these measuring devices could be omitted. Fluid flowing out of detector train goes to waste receptical .

A non recirculating embodiment would simply withdraw reactor fluid at a rate Qc and feed mixing chamber directly. All other flow rates and concentrations remain as stated above. The main difference in this approach is that there will be a longer delay time between the sampling of a fluid element and its measurement by the detector train.

An active mixing element in mixing chamber such as a rotary vane turned by a miniature motor is shown in . In the case of low viscosity fluids a passive element may be substituted. Mixing chamber is normally vented to atmosphere so as to allow any bubbles coming from the reactor to be exhaled and not drawn into the detector stream. An active or passive overflow O and or a level sensor is preferably included in the apparatus see . In the latter case the level sensor will work in conjunction with the PLC to control an active diverter . In this case a solvent recirculation loop may be introduced whereby a second active diverter also operated by the PLC will deliver at intervals the desired average Qs. In the case of an active overflow without a level sensor a certain amount of the mixed fluid in mixing chamber will be pumped away by another low viscosity pump at a rate Qw such that Qw Qp Qc Qs. The volume V of fluid in mixing chamber together with the combined flow rate Qs Qc determines the average residence time t and hence response time of the chamber of a fluid element in the mixing chamber according to

1 Pumps and do not have to pump highly viscous liquids pump being the only high viscosity pump in the embodiment. Pump does not have to work against any significant back pressure since mixing chamber is vented to atmosphere and so a very inexpensive peristaltic piston diaphragm or other type pump can be used. Pumps and must be able to pump the low viscosity mixed sample fluid against the detector train back pressure typically on the order of 20 psi to 1000 psi. Many commercially available piston pumps exist for this application.

2 Conditioning module is shown in the drawing in line with outlet of pump . It can perform functions such as heating the reactor fluid to evaporate solvent and or monomer or filtering the reactor fluid. Conditioning module can also be place at other points in the diagram such as at the outlet of mixing chamber .

In this experiment results shown in a Greylor peristaltic pump Qc 0.08 ml min withdrew reactor fluid from a polystyrene polymerization reaction to feed the mixing chamber. In this reaction 94 by weight styrene was mixed with 6 by weight ethylbenzene and a free radical initiator Luperox TAEC Atofina was used at 517 ppm and the reaction was carried out at 117 C. A second Greylor pump operating at Qs 0.8 ml min was used to feed solvent tetrahydrofuran or THF to the mixing chamber. The solvent pump and the pump exiting the mixing chamber were both Agilent isocratic HPLC high pressure liquid chromatography pumps. Qp was set at 0.2 ml min and Qs at 1.8 ml min so that Q 2.0 ml min feeding the detector train with a solute concentration of approximately Cd 0.01 g cm i.e. roughly a fold dilution. The reaction proceeded until the final viscosity was several thousand cP.

The mixing chamber was a 2 cm diameter scintillation vial atop a magnetic stirrer. A magnetic stir bar in the vial provided the mixing action. A vented cap was made for the vial which held the tubes providing Qc Qs Qw and Qp.

The detector train consisted of a homebuilt single capillary viscometer V a prototype multi angle light scattering unit of the inventor s design U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 184 a Waters 410 RI detector and a Shimadzu SPD 10AV UV detector. These instruments and methods have been previously described see endnotes .

Over the first 2500 s pure THF flowed through the system and established the baseline of each detector. At 2500 s Cd of unreacted styrene in the detector began to flow. The increase in UV and RI signals show the arrival of styrene in the THF at the detector train. The viscosity and light scattering 90 degree signal shown data from six other angles were simultaneously collected do not respond to the monomeric styrene. Initiator was added at about 8 500 s. At 10 000 s the beginning of the polymerization is seen via the increase in light scattering and viscosity. At the end of the reaction the fall off in each of the detector signals show that the reactor fluid viscosity due to the polystyrene produced is too high for the pump. The delay time in this configuration was quite long and was estimated at about 20 minutes.

The second experiment shown here see was also a styrene polymerization reaction under the same conditions as the first. The main difference was the use of a custom built Zenith Corporation gear pump with stepper motor drive for pumping the reaction mixture into the mixing chamber.

The results of the gear pump are clearly superior to those from the peristaltic pump. The RI signal was much more steady showing the ability of the gear pump to pump the higher viscosities and the ability of the mixing chamber to deliver a smooth well mixed fluid. Even at the highest viscosities the gear pump continued to deliver reactor fluid to the mixing chamber whereas the peristaltic pump lost its ability to pump. The delay time with the gear pump was substantially lower on the order of 5 minutes.

Another example of data collected using the same pumping scheme shown for the polystyrene data above is now given. The reaction was a free radical polymerization of two water soluble vinyl polymers at a high weight concentration in pure water. The starting viscosity was around that of water. By the end of the polymerization the viscosity in the reactor was over 100 000 times greater than that of water. The flow rate was 2.0 ml minute. A 50 fold dilution of the reactor contents occurred in the low pressure mixing chamber and a subsequent 10 fold dilution in the high pressure mixing chamber.

Pure solvent water flows through the detector train initially after which the diluted monomer stream flows up until about 7 000 s at which point the results of initiating the polymerization about 15 minutes earlier 15 minutes is the approximate delay time from reactor to detector train are seen. The 90 degree light scattering LS data are shown data from the other six angles are not shown which reflects the increasing concentration of polymer as the monomer is converted during the reaction. The refractometer rises modestly during the reaction reflecting the fact that the differential index of refraction of the polymer is greater than that of the monomer. The decay of the ultra violet absorption at 234 nm directly measures the conversion of the monomer since the absorption is due to the double bond in the monomer which is lost once incorporated into the polymer and the absorption is lost. The rise in the viscometer shows the increase in polymer concentration. These raw data were evaluated according to the methods of Florenzano et al. Ref. 6 .

Typical solvents which can be used for dilution include but are not limited to water and other aqueous solvents such as those containing simple and complex electrolytes and buffering agents. Also a wide variety of non aqueous solvents toluene chloroform tetrahydrofuran butyl acetate dimethyl sulfoxide ether methanol ethanol other alcohols ethylene glycol n methylpyrrolidone etc. as well as mixtures of such solvents.

1 Chain growth reactions such as those initiated by free radicals or in anionic controlled radical atom transfer radical and other polymerization reactions to produce such polymers as polystyrene polyacrylamide poly vinylpyrrolidone poly butyl acrylate etc.

2 Step growth reactions such as those used to produce such polymers as polyurethane polyamines nylons etc.

3 Polymerization reactions wherein copolymers are formed whether such copolymers consist of two or more comonomers and whether they are formed as strictly alternating random blocks grafts etc.

4 Polymerization reactions in which a pre dissolution stage may be necessary as part of the conditioning system. Such examples may include cases where there is a slurry formed such as from a high pressure or phase separating reactor or solid polymer pellets are formed such as from a fluidized bed reactor.

6 Degradation reactions in which agents such as acids bases ultrasound enzymes heat radiation etc. degrade biological polymers such as polysaccharides proteins and nucleic acids or synthetic polymers such as those mentioned above.

 Computer used throughout the description of this invention refers to any device capable of receiving signals from detectors described herein and performing the required data reduction and analysis on these signals. Hence computer can refer to any commercially available computer e.g. such as those sold by IBM Dell Apple etc. including workstations e.g. Sun Microsystems as well as any microprocessor based device whether commercially available or designed specifically for the data acquisition and analysis functions described herein.

All measurements disclosed herein are at standard temperature and pressure at sea level on Earth unless indicated otherwise. All materials used or intended to be used in a human being are biocompatible unless indicated otherwise.

The foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only the scope of the present invention is to be limited only by the following claims.

