---

title: Device and method for adjusting a converged device having barcode reading and RFID functionalities
abstract: A method adjusts a computing device. The method receives configuration data relating to at least two functionalities of the device. The method adjusts configurations of components of the device as a function of the configuration data so that the device performs as if a first functionality of the at least two functionalities is a primary functionality of the device. The components are at least partially capable of the at least two functionalities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08122237&OS=08122237&RS=08122237
owner: Symbol Technologies, Inc.
number: 08122237
owner_city: Holtsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071206
---
The present invention relates generally to a device and method for tailoring a converged device. Specifically the converged device determines component configurations so that the converged device executes a specific functionality substantially similar to a dedicated device.

A mobile unit MU may include a variety of different functionalities. The MU may be specialized to perform specific functionalities e.g. dedicated device . For example the MU may be a radio frequency identification RFID device. The MU may allocate all available resources to the RFID functionalities. Consequently the MU may not include any additional functionalities. The MU may also be a converged device. The converged device incorporates the multiple functionalities available on the MU. Thus when a user requires an image to be captured the MU operates as a camera when a user requires to make a phone call the MU operates as a phone etc. That is the converged device is an MU that suits a user s technology need at each instance. However because the converged device provides multiple functionalities the converged device does not perform a specific functionality as well as a dedicated device tailored to the specific functionality.

The present invention relates to a method for adjusting a computing device. The method receives configuration data relating to at least two functionalities of the device. The method adjusts configurations of components of the device as a function of the configuration data so that the device performs as if a first functionality of the at least two functionalities is a primary functionality of the device. The components are at least partially capable of the at least two functionalities.

The exemplary embodiments of the present invention may be further understood with reference to the following description and the appended drawings wherein like elements are referred to with the same reference numerals. The exemplary embodiments of the present invention describe a device and method for tailoring a converged device. Specifically the converged device of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention may include at least two functionalities and respective components that enable execution of these functionalities. As will be discussed in detail below the at least two functionalities may be adjusted so that a user has a customized device that executes one functionality with higher operating parameters similar to a dedicated device that performs the one functionality. That is the device may perform as if the one functionality is a primary functionality of the device such as with the dedicated device. The converged device the functionalities and the tailoring will be discussed in more detail below.

The processor may be a central computing component that operates the MU . The memory may store data related to the MU . The data may pertain to programs installed on the MU functionalities associated with the MU etc. In addition as will be discussed below the data may also include configuration data relating to the functionalities of the MU . It should be noted that if the MU is capable of connecting via wired and or wireless connections to a network infrastructure e.g. LAN WAN VLAN etc. the configuration data may be stored on a database of a server.

The user interface may comprise of any component s that enables a user to enter inputs view data etc. For example the user interface may include a display and an input arrangement . The display and the input arrangement may be disposed at least partially on a housing of the MU . The display may be a graphical user interface GUI . The input arrangement may be a keypad in which a user may enter various inputs or any other arrangement capable of obtaining receiving data. The inputs may correspond to at least one installed program or functionality of the MU . It should be noted that the display may be a touch screen that enables a user to enter inputs thereon. That is the data input arrangement being a separate component is only exemplary. Thus the MU may include the display and the data input arrangement the display with touch screen capabilities or a combination thereof. It should also be noted that the data input arrangement may include further keypads disposed on other peripheral areas of the housing such as a side data input arrangement.

The user interface may enable a user to enter configuration data relating to the functionalities of the MU . As will be discussed in detail below the configuration data may indicate a performance of the components of the MU so that the functionalities operate at predetermined parameters. It should be noted that a manual entering of the configuration data is only exemplary. As will be discussed in detail below the configuration data may be determined automatically by the processor .

The function modules may be a component of the MU responsible for a functionality of the MU . For example the function module may be a scanning engine. The scanning engine may be used to capture data encoded for example as a barcode e.g. one dimensional two dimensional color etc. . In another example the function module may be an RFID reader. The RFID reader may be used to capture data of an RFID tag. Thus the module may also be equipped with an RFID antenna. In yet another example the function module may be a camera. The camera may be used to capture an image by converting received light. It should be noted that the use of the function modules is only exemplary. That is the MU may include fewer or more than three function modules. Furthermore other types of function modules exist to increase a variety of functionalities executable by the MU . It should be noted that the functionalities performed by the function modules may not correspond to the functionalities executable by the converged device. That is the function modules may be used as a portion of the functionality executed by the MU . For example the MU may include a tagging functionality. Thus when the function module is an RFID reader and the function module is a camera an RFID tag may be read and an image of an object in which the RFID tag is disposed may be taken. The RFID and the image may subsequently be associated i.e. tagged .

The communications arrangement may be a substantially similar component to the function modules . Specifically the Communications arrangement may be responsible for communication functionalities that are executable by the MU . For example the communications arrangement may include a transceiver. The transceiver may transmit and receive radio signals through an antenna coupled to thereto. The transceiver may allow the MU to connect to a network infrastructure. The communications arrangement may also include voice components such as a speaker and a microphone. Voice inputs received through the microphone may be transmitted through the network to an intended party. Voice outputs may be played by the speaker upon receiving the voice output data through the transceiver. It should be noted that the communications arrangement may enable a remote entering of the configuration data. That is using the user interface to manually enter the configuration data locally is only exemplary and a remote manual entering of the configuration data is also enabled.

In step initial configuration data is received and stored on the MU . The initial configuration data may include drivers to set settings operational parameters etc. relating to each functionality executable by the MU . Step may represent an initial configuring of the MU . The initial configuring may be done at various stages. Furthermore the initial configuring may be done multiple times during the various stages. For example during manufacture and prior to release for use or sale the MU may receive and store the initial configuration data. In another example the memory may not include any initial configuration data i.e. no data is pre stored on the MU during manufacture . The converged device may receive the initial configuration data upon connecting to a network infrastructure. In yet another example the initial configuration data may be stored as a bundle so that when the MU is activated replies to prompts may install appropriate sections of the initial configuration data bundle. In further examples the initial configuration data may be determined by measuring a position of the MU e.g. camera pointed forward or adaptive learning e.g. frequency of use of a given functionality as a function of time .

In step configurations relating to the components of the MU are adjusted based on the initial configuration data. As discussed above the initial configuration data may include drivers. The drivers may dictate a manner in which the components of the MU are to operate in particular with relation to other components. The initial configuration data may indicate that one functionality is to take precedence over other functionalities. That is the one functionality may be for example used more intensively e.g. often than the other functionalities. For example it may be predetermined that the one functionality such as RFID reading is a primary use for the MU while image capturing e.g. camera is a secondary use. The RFID reading functionality may be adjusted to take precedence so that all necessary resources may be allocated thereto while the image capturing functionality may only be allocated a portion of a remainder of the resources. The predetermination may be made at various times. For example the predetermination may be indicated to a manufacturer so that the initial configuration data may be used to adjust the MU . In another example the MU may be received with basic settings that equally allocate resources to each functionality. Subsequently the initial configuration data may be used to adjust the functionalities.

In step a determination is made whether an automatic adjustment of the configurations of the functionalities is performed. That is the MU may be adjusted manually or automatically. The adjustment performed at this stage of the method may be to tailor the MU specifically for the user. For example the MU may have been originally designed to primarily execute a first functionality e.g. RFID reading . Subsequently the user may require a second functionality e.g. image capture to be used primarily. This adjustment may reallocate resources so that the MU may become better suited to execute the second functionality. In another example the MU may be configured to primarily execute a specific functionality. However the resource allocation within the specific functionality may not be optimally suited. For example with RFID reading the MU may allocate more resources to the RFID antenna than a transceiver that transmits the data from the RFID tag. However the transceiver may be more important than the antenna. Thus this adjustment may re prioritize the resources within the specific functionality.

If step determines that no automatic adjustment is performed the method continues to step . That is the method continues to step when a manual adjustment of the configurations is performed. The manual adjustment may be performed through a configuration mechanism. The configuration mechanism may be accessed through the driver files. For example a software application programming interface API may be used to access the configuration mechanism. In another example a static manufacturing configuration may be used. In yet another example a user interface e.g. local through input arrangement or remotely through communications arrangement may be used. Further examples may include measuring a position of the MU e.g. camera pointed forward or adaptive learning e.g. frequency of use of a given functionality as a function of time . Using any one or a combination of these methods the user may enter new configuration data that adjusts the initial configuration data.

If step determines that an automatic adjustment is performed the method continues to step . In step new configuration data is determined based on operating parameters of the functionalities. The operating parameters may include for example resource usage. In a first exemplary embodiment the operating parameters may be collected after each use of a functionality. In a second embodiment the operating parameters may be collected dynamically so that the new configuration data is immediately available. In a third embodiment the operating parameters may be collected at a time interval. The time interval may be for example after a use of a functionality at predetermined time periods e.g. after an hour a day a week a month etc. at an initiation of the MU a combination thereof etc. Using any one or a combination of the methods described above the new configuration data may be determined.

Whether the new configuration data was manually entered automatically determined or a combination thereof the method continues to step . In step the component configurations are adjusted based on the new configuration data. The new configuration data may indicate that a particular functionality is favored over other functionalities. In particular the new configuration data may adjust the initial configuration data. It should be noted that the new configuration data may override the initial configuration data. The adjustment of the components based on the new configuration data may alter an operation of one or more components. For example resources allocated to the favored functionality may increase while the other functionalities are only allocated a portion of remaining resources. In another example the communications arrangement may be integrally linked to two or more functionalities. The new configuration data may indicate that the communications arrangement is to be more available to the favored functionality than the other functionalities. The same may apply to other components such as the processor the memory system timing interrupts the user interface etc.

In a specific example of the method the MU may support bar code scanning voice and data communications via WLAN WPAN or WAN and a camera. It may be determined that the MU performs barcode scanner intensive tasks with 802.11 communications being transmitted to a server. The voice communications e.g. phone may only be used occasionally. In this example the MU may be configured to provide maximum performance and usability to barcode scanning and 802.11 data transfer. That is these functionalities may be performed by the MU in a substantially similar manner to a dedicated terminal performing either of these functionalities. The voice communications performance may be lower such as being less user friendly e.g. basic views on the display basic keys for the input arrangement etc. . The other functionalities may be adjusted in a substantially similar manner.

It should be noted that the method may include additional steps. The method may also be iterative. That is after step the method may return to step so that the converged device may be constantly adjusted. When the method iterates the new configuration data from a first run may become old configuration data. Thus new configuration data of a second run may adjust or replace the old configuration data.

The exemplary embodiments of the present invention enable the operation of a converged device e.g. MU to be tailored so that at least one functionality operates substantially similar to a non converged device i.e. dedicated device . Available resources may be allocated to the at least one functionality for the tailoring. For example a converged device may be used primarily as a phone and a location system e.g. GPS . Network functionalities scanning functionalities data capture functionalities etc. may also be included in the converged device but are only infrequently used. Thus according to the exemplary embodiments of the present invention the infrequently used functionalities may be powered off. Consequently resources that are usually allocated to the infrequently used functionalities are re allocated to the frequently used functionalities e.g. phone location system . Therefore the frequently used functionalities may be used with no degradation in performance. As discussed above the frequently used technologies may be specifically tailored for each converged device. Thus using for example provisioning real time configuration adaptive learning etc. the converged device may execute the frequently used functionalities with substantially dedicated device performance for the respective functionalities.

Those skilled in the art will understand that the above described exemplary embodiments may be implemented in any number of manners including as a separate software module as a combination of hardware and software etc. For example the method may be a program containing lines of code that when compiled may be executed on the processor .

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made in the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

