---

title: Programmable microtransformer
abstract: A programmable transformer incorporating windings embedded in a thin film substrate. The windings are flat wire traces embedded into the substrate, primary on one side and secondary on the other. The secondary windings may be planar or different coils spatially arrayed throughout a thickness of the substrate. The secondary winding may include multiple tap points, effectively providing multiple secondary coils referenced to the single primary coil. Each tap point is bridged to a field effect or CMOS transistor path by which a digital controls permit dynamic adjustment of the turns ratio. The final secondary output depends on the activated transistor paths. Multiple secondary outputs from a single secondary coil and a digitally programmable turns ratio are available aspects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07456722&OS=07456722&RS=07456722
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07456722
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---
The present application is a Continuation Application of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 650 759 filed on Dec. 15 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 298 238.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to microtransformers and more particularly to a programmable microtransformer design incorporating flat wire windings embedded in a thin film substrate the secondary windings having multiple tap points connected to digital controls that permit dynamic adjustment of the turns ratio. The microtransformer layout is scalable based on the relative size of the circuit card on which it resides.

Electrical transformers are commonly implemented as discrete analog components. Most transformers are manufactured using an iron based core material wrapped with wire windings but this configuration increases their mass volume and cost. Traditional fabrication methods preclude the use of common transformers as embedded systems part of a larger overall system or product because space confines require more versatile components. However there are efforts directed toward developing thin film transformers including Micro Electro Mechanical or MEMS based transformers.

For example US Patent Application 20050062575 by Gardner shows an integrated MEMS based transformer in which coil windings are deposited on a substrate and magnetic core material is included as interspersed layers between windings and dielectrics. The effective turns ratio of the Gardner construct depends on different material substrates as well as the substrate layer thickness between windings.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 707 367 to Castaneda et al. shows an overlay transformer with flat wire coils on a substrate primary on one side and secondary on the other. The secondary coils are tapped and intermediate dielectric layers are incorporated. This disclosure is sharply limited to a specific octagonal geometry with two first and second windings and no magnetic core material. The construction is based on traditional printed circuit manufacturing technology. Further the inter winding substrate thickness is assumed.

US Patent Application 20020130753 to Merriam uses multiple layers of non conductive material with individual coil traces stacked to form a multi turn transformer. Merriam also notes that transformers frequently provide variable voltage output and suggests a center tap layer. However there is only one winding per layer and ceramic substrate layers are used. The ceramic influences the effective turns ratio based on dielectric variance of the ceramic. In addition a multi layer ceramic MLCC method of building inductive elements is inferred not a printed circuit board assembly process.

U.S. Patent Application No. 20040070893 to Ahn et al. shows a microtransformer for a high performance system on chip power supply application specific to a DC DC converter. The coils are fabricated by patterned deposition on both sides of a substrate the hallmark of a traditional printed circuit process . Multiple tap implementations are suggested.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 580 334 to Simburger et al. issued Jun. 17 2003 shows a monolithically integrated transformer using slotted windings produced by silicon bipolar technology with three metallic layers. This patent states that the absolute size of the transformer is virtually unimportant but merely determines the frequency range of the optimum function or the inherent resonant frequencies. The diameter of an optimum transformer for frequencies from 800 to 900 MHz is for example about 400 um. Column 4 Lines 8 12 . However this description is somewhat a misnomer because to obtain a desired frequency and resonance response even a desired power rating the geometric physicality of the inductive element s constructed i.e. absolute size directly determines its claims and intended application as does the circuit elements tied to it.

In summary of the above described and other related art these technologies intrinsically show that the desired performance depends on 1 microtransformer geometry 2 construction methods and 3 actual composition of matter used in making these types of devices substitutions of materials in this area is not an obvious matter of design choice . Indeed some of the foregoing examples simply cannot be built effectively using printed circuit board fabrication techniques because they require vertical angled traces connecting layer to layer and cannot be done without drilling a hole through the board.

The existing microtransformers have a second limitation in that their turns ratios are typically fixed and it is difficult to dynamically configure and control the turns ratio. There is a second line of research directed toward varying the effective turns ratio using switched secondary taps.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 417 651 to Kronberg U.S. Pat. No. 5 969 511 to Asselman et al. and US Patent Application No. 20040100341 by Luetzelschwab et al. all use MEMs switches to tune a high power transformer by selecting secondary winding taps. They provide a means of electronic switching using either SCR banks Asselman or digitally controlled switches Kronberg . However they employ a multiplicity of discrete elements dedicated to high energy power applications far in excess of the compact constructions envisioned by the present inventors.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 232 841 to Bartlett et al. issued May 15 2001 shows an integrated tunable high efficiency power amplifier made from micro electromechanical MEMs devices capable of being integrated with the control circuitry needed to produce the control signals and other amplifier components on a common substrate. The Bartlett U.S. Pat. No. 6 232 841 does combine an overlay transformer with an on board switching network and a center tapped transformer but not multi taps or layered coils.

Therefore there remains a need for a programmable microtransformer design better suited for MEMS based manufacture and subsequent use in embedded systems that incorporate flat wire windings embedded in a layered thin film substrate the secondary windings having multiple tap points connected to digital controls that permit dynamic adjustment of the turns ratio.

In all the foregoing related art examples size frequency characteristics and energy capacity concerns drive the design variables and so the stated goals implemented in a compact packaging of circuitry for a specific power load requires an entirely new set of geometries materials and assembly.

It is therefore an aspect of the present invention to miniaturize analog transformer technology to fit within confined spaces without discrete components.

It is another aspect to provide a design for a programmable microtransformer that is better suited for MEMS based manufacture and subsequent use in embedded systems and which incorporates flat wire windings embedded in a layered thin film substrate the secondary windings having multiple tap points connected to digital controls that permit dynamic adjustment of the turns ratio.

These and other aspects are accomplished by a programmable microtransformer with windings embedded in a thin film substrate. The windings are flat wire traces embedded into the substrate primary on one side and secondary on the other. The secondary windings may be planar or different coils spatially arrayed throughout the thickness of the substrate. Upon energizing the primary the resulting magnetic flux penetrates the substrate. The secondary has multiple tap points effectively providing multiple secondary coils referenced to the single primary coil. Each tap point is bridged to a field effect or CMOS transistor path by which digital controls permit dynamic adjustment of the turns ratio. The final secondary output depends on which transistor paths are activated. Unlike conventional wound component transformers it becomes possible to have multiple secondary outputs from a single secondary coil and a digitally programmable turns ratio. Moreover the microtransformer layout is scalable based on the relative size of the circuit card on which it resides. Thus the transformer design is well suited for a MEMs based implementation.

A variety of embodiments are disclosed in an array of configurations and with optional magnetic core.

An exemplary embodiment of the invention is a programmable microtransformer design incorporating flat wire windings embedded in a thin film substrate the secondary windings having multiple tap points connected to digital controls that permit dynamic adjustment of the turns ratio. A method of production is also disclosed.

Further regarding a description of the first exemplary embodiment the tap points are positioned towards the center of the substrate . Each tap point in the secondary winding is bridged to a transistive switching circuit and more particularly field effect transistors FETs as shown. In an exemplary embodiment the transistive switching circuit is situated substantially adjacent the tap points . Further the gates of the FETs are controlled by digital controls to permit dynamic adjustment of the turns ratio. The final secondary outputs at FET cathodes depend on which transistor paths are activated by the digital controls. This configuration provides great flexibility allowing a designer to engineer magnetic fields having irregular shapes opposing fields flexible substrates etc. all using layered printed circuit board fabrication techniques to embed a transformer into a printed circuit board substrate as is well suited for MEMS based applications. Unlike discrete analog transformers this layered embodiment with digital FET switching circuit makes it possible to have any number of secondary outputs using a single secondary winding . The substrate in the illustrated embodiment is generally FR 4 fiberglass. It is noteworthy that the substrate thickness between the primary and secondary coils also serves to adjust the effective turns ratio.

The above described basic design can be adapted for current printed circuit board fabrication techniques to yield an array of different geometries. Specifically the variance of shape and wire size a function of design goals dictates what turns ratios frequency sensitivity and sensing operations may be implemented as a manner of design methodology. The geometry is also a function of available packaging volume.

To further illustrate the flexibility A J illustrates various geometries for programmable microtransformers that are attainable by layered printing techniques. For purposes of illustration the transistive switching circuit of is not shown. The variants include reshaped coil geometries such as 1 inductively coupled multiple tap transformers layered through the substrate 2 coil winding stacking 3 offset coils 4 dual proxima transformers and 5 serpentine sense lines. All have multiple tap points and some are configured with central spaces for magnetic core insertion. The variants A J may be categorized and subcategorized as follows 

To illustrate how the above described designs can be achieved using layered printed circuit board fabrication techniques illustrates how the inductively coupled multiple tap octagonal transformer with six pairs of tap points SA SB through SA SB as shown at A can be printed on eight layers A H.

The foregoing coil geometries are generally for low to moderately energetic signals and have been tested as viable up to approximately 50 85 watts. However higher wattage programmable microtransformers are achievable using larger elements though for such implementations the power rating is also determined by the device s ability to dissipate heat. Opening the separation distance between coil turns reduces thermal operating effects but also increases the circuit board volume required to implement the transformer.

Accommodating higher energy signals mandates using a printed circuit board substrate as the basic coil geometry of when enlarged makes an efficient heat radiator. The FETs must be replaced with power transistors to manage the electrical loads.

With the above described method it becomes possible to have practical transformers made using irregular or asymmetric shapes where traditionally symmetric design proves inadequate. Further the lamination of substrate versus wire thickness alters the effective turns ratio based on the material properties of the substrate and the thickness of it between electrically conductive layers see the Spatial Effective Ratio construct described below .

While the primary implementations described above are coreless it is well known that the intercoil gap configuration contributes significantly to coupling efficiency and the effective turns ratio. An exemplary embodiment also encompasses the insertion of core materials between windings to more tightly couple magnetic flux through the microtransformer.

The embodiment of includes each microtransformer winding on top and bottom surfaces respectively with the tap points toward the center of the substrate . However a mirrored construct is also feasible where the windings are more proximate to the substrate center and the tap points are on the top and bottom.

While the embodiment of employs a materially rigid fiberglass substrate it is possible to employ a flexible substrate that permits the designer to engineer magnetic fields having irregular shapes or opposing fields driven in parallel by a common signal source. shows one example of this configuration where a flexible substrate is employed for each layer. The flexible substrate may be a flexible polyamide film with conductive windings and traces printed thereon. Flexible printed circuits are thin lightweight flexible and durable which can meet a wide range of temperature and environmental extremes and can conform to the interior or exterior housings of many existing devices taking up very little additional space.

The above described programmable microtransformer design can also be varied to exploit spatial and material substrate properties between windings. illustrates a programmable microtransformer having a fixed nominal turns ratio but the programmable effective turns ratio is also determined by the particular coil layer tapped into and the layer space which is potentially variable relative to the primary winding . Thus the programmable effective turns ratio is varied by changing the coil layer and an effective layer space not by a multiple tap secondary winding as in as well as the selection of various materials for the substrate . As such this configuration is most effective when employing at least eight layers leaving the substrate surface layers with top A and bottom B available for parts placement as indicated in . It has been determined through testing that a device as in incorporating a spatial effective turns ratio can achieve step down performance far in excess of the fixed nominal turns ratio. For example given a nominal 10 1 turns ratio with only two windings it is possible to perform at the level of a 100 1 transformer because FR 4 substrate separated the coils at nearly the full circuit board thickness 0.062 inches. Closer coil to coil proximity strengthens the coupling coefficient yielding a spatial effective ratio equation as follows 2121 

where N denotes the effective and nominal turns ratios Z denotes the material scalar effects of each substrate layer and Tdenotes the thickness of each separating layer.

The transformer can easily adapt to use a hybrid construct like that in which employs discrete minitransformers or inductors and or magnetic core elements .

The hybrid configuration of has the advantage of a wider frequency range depending on the discrete part chosen as the hybrid construction augments the performance of the embedded windings. The advantages of the hybrid discrete mini micro transformer construct are as follows 

1 Increased operating bandwidth Generally the discrete mini transformer is at first a surface mountable inductor having a ferrite or other magnetically sensitive bobbin material. The core bobbin ensures a frequency response favoring lower bands confirmed in the specifications for such devices. The mini transformer is formed by winding a secondary turn of magnet wire around and over the stock part. To date coreless microtransformers that have been tested have a higher frequency response than those with cores. Thus in switched combination this construct makes compact wideband transformers possible.

2 Magnetic flux sensing Used together with the mini transformer as the primary and secondary the microtransformer may be used as an off resonance isolated input to sense magnetic field strength in high energy circuits.

3 Increased heat dissipation Being geometrically close to the microtransformer permits the discrete mini transformer to dissipate any heat generated in the microtransformer as substrate thermal conduction permits and vice versa.

Given an ample geometry nesting multiple coils inside single or multiple coils on the same layer is also possible. See for example the nested single loops on a common layer as seen in at C and D or square with four pairs of tap points shown at E and octagonal with one pair of tap points as shown at I. These configurations closely couple flux density without vertical coil spacing. One novelty of these types is their potential to employ fractional symmetry and serpentines in their coil constructs e.g. embodiments F G items and respectively. Serpentine circuits are useful also in mitigating induced currents when switching and impedance adjustment elements are added immediately above and below the substrate embedded transformer windings. Serpentine twists are balanced with respect to the magnetic flux of the transformer

In all the above described embodiments the concept of a programmable microtransformer design incorporating flat wire windings embedded in a thin film substrate with secondary windings having multiple tap points connected to digital controls that permit dynamic adjustment of the turns ratio adds repeatable performance aspect that traditional discrete component transformers cannot match. The list of features and their advantages are many 

High Energy Compactness For the performance yield compared to traditional discrete transformers programmable microtransformers are extremely small. Further their compactness allows the superimposition of other circuit elements allowing for more compact circuit assembly techniques while achieving a higher energy handling capacity than integrated circuit implementations of prior methods.

Variable Geometry Unlike discrete units programmable microtransformers may be assembled to suit most any geometry and packaging method as seen by .

Highly Dynamic Turns Ratio The effective turns ratio of any programmable microtransformer is decided by both the selectable nominal turns ratio and the coupling gap distance between active coils. This ratio takes advantage of spatial physics making it possible to process large voltage signals effectively through digital circuits while reducing the signal processing components necessary to do so. Fractional turns ratios are also achievable using geometric variance e.g. the bi triangular model of .

Reduced Parts Count Since printed circuit boards must be built to hold many electronic circuit elements it makes economic sense to reduce parts count wherever possible during mass production. Depending on the exact preference programmable microtransformers may be built combining coils with digital switching elements into the same device or embed coils in the printed circuit while hosting digital switching elements discretely. Either method reduces overall parts count.

Having now fully set forth an exemplary embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

