---

title: System and method for providing export services to merchants
abstract: A fulfillment services provider may offer export services to merchants, including generation of required export documentation; calculation, collection, and remittance of customs duties; and transportation via an international carrier. Such export services may be offered through a registration service, and may be integrated with other fulfillment services provided to registered merchants (e.g., domestic order fulfillment and/or warehousing of inventory), or may be offered to merchants that do not receive other fulfillment services from the provider. Export services may be provided to merchants who certify that all registered or specified items may be legally exported to all (or specified) international destinations, or the provider may verify compliance to export regulations on behalf of registered merchants. The provider may assume the role of Principal Party in Interest for registered merchants or the merchants may retain this role. Registration and provision of export services may be implemented in one or more software modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07853480&OS=07853480&RS=07853480
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 07853480
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070521
---
This invention relates to computer implemented registration for export services and more particularly to computer implemented techniques for offering export services to merchants.

In order to offer customers a variety of items readily available for delivery many merchants whether engaging in electronic or conventional brick and mortar commerce hold various quantities of such items within inventory facilities. Keeping items in inventory may serve to buffer variations in customer demand or a manufacturer or distributor s ability to supply various items. For example different items offered for sale by a merchant may have different manufacturer lead times. Holding quantities of such items as inventory may enable a merchant to offer consistent availability of these items to customers despite the different lead times.

However in some circumstances holding inventory may present various costs or disadvantages to a merchant. For example inventory storage facilities may be expensive to provision and maintain particularly for smaller merchants who may not be able to efficiently and profitably distribute the fixed costs of such facilities across a limited quantity of inventory. Moreover should the need arise scaling an inventory system to accommodate increased demand or volume may be an expensive proposition requiring substantial investment in technology facilities and or staffing.

A merchant s holding his or her own inventory may also present disadvantages to customers. As electronic commerce grows in popularity many merchants increasingly list their offerings along with other merchants via electronic marketplaces that provide a common interface through which customers may search for items and place orders. However if different merchants are ultimately responsible for fulfilling their own respective orders through such a marketplace the customer s ordering experience for a given item may vary considerably depending on the merchant from which the item is ordered. For example a merchant that has little skill or poor processes for order fulfillment may be slow to ship an item may ship the wrong item may deliver damaged goods or may otherwise create a negative customer experience. Such a negative experience may reflect not only on the merchant from whom the customer ordered but also on other merchants in the electronic marketplace possibly decreasing customer confidence in the marketplace itself.

Similarly a merchant that has little or no experience with international commerce or with the regulations applied to export of goods to other countries and regions of the world may find it difficult and expensive to support fulfillment of orders for goods to be delivered outside the country. Such merchants may choose to forgo expansion of their businesses outside the United States and therefore to pass up opportunities for additional revenues that could be generated in other markets.

Various embodiments of a method and system for offering export services to merchants are disclosed. According to one embodiment a system may include a memory configured to store instructions and one or more processors coupled to the memory. The instructions may be executable by at least one of the processors to implement an inventory management system that may be configured to implement a registration interface receive from a merchant via the registration interface a request to receive export services from a fulfillment services provider for one or more inventory items determine whether the request is valid and in response to determining that the request is valid store information indicating that the inventory items are registered for export services.

In various embodiments determining if the request for export services is valid may include prompting the merchant to indicate that the inventory items may be legally exported comparing an identifier of the merchant to one or more lists of merchants restricted from exporting items implementing a criminal background check credit check or authentication of the identity of the merchant comparing an identifier of each of the inventory items to one or more lists of items restricted from export to one or more destinations entities or persons and or prompting the merchant to indicate that he or she agrees to comply with applicable export regulations.

If the request for export services is valid the inventory management service may in some embodiments be configured to store an indication that the merchant has successfully registered for export services for the one or more inventory items or a subset determined to be exportable . The inventory management service may also be configured to prompt the merchant to provide a signature that may be stored for use in generating export documentation for orders including the one or more inventory items registered for export services.

The inventory management service may be configured to receive orders from customers for one or more of the inventory items registered for export services that include an international delivery destination. The inventory management service may be configured to determine if the order is valid and in response to determining that the order is valid may generate any or all applicable export documentation on behalf of the merchant and may initiate delivery of the order to the international delivery destination. In some embodiments to determine that the order is valid the inventory management system may be configured to compare identifiers of the items in the order an identifier of a person or entity receiving the order and or the destination to one or more lists of items restricted for export to particular destinations entities or persons. Export documentation generated by the inventory management system may in various embodiments include information identifying the Principal Party in Interest and the ultimate consignee information regarding the transportation method and port of export and or unloading identifiers of the items included in a shipment an export license number or exception symbol and or a stored merchant signature. A physical copy of the generated export documentation may be attached to a shipping container for the order and or the generated export documentation may be provided in physical or electronic form to a carrier selected to transport the order to its international delivery destination.

In some embodiments if an order for export is received that includes registered inventory items from two or more merchants the inventory management system may be configured to ship the items together with one set of export documentation indicating that the fulfillment services provider is the exporter of record. In other embodiments if an order for export is received that includes registered inventory items from two or more merchants the inventory management system may be configured to generate separate export documentation on behalf of each of the merchants each assuming the role of exporter of record for his or her own inventory items and ship the items from each merchant separately along with their respective export documentation.

The inventory management system may in some embodiments be configured to calculate any applicable customs duties owed to various taxing authorities and to collect those duties when collecting payment for order fulfillment services that include export services. The duties collected may also be remitted to the appropriate taxing authorities automatically by the inventory management service in some embodiments.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

One embodiment of a fulfillment center configured to store inventory items for customer order fulfillment is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment an enterprise includes a fulfillment center that in turn includes an inventory storage facility as well as an inventory management system . Storage facility may be configured to store an arbitrary number of inventory items . As described in greater detail below system may be configured to receive customer orders for various ones of items from one or more customers via one or more of an arbitrary number of different merchants . Additionally system may be configured to initiate and or coordinate actions resulting in the shipment of ordered items to corresponding customers .

Generally speaking fulfillment center may be configured to receive and store different kinds of items from various sources such as wholesalers distributors or merchants for example. Items may generally encompass any type of tangible object or substance that may be received for storage. For example and without limitation items may include media items e.g. books compact discs videotape and or DVDs electronic devices computers and related peripherals and equipment consumer or commercial appliances clothing prescription and or over the counter pharmaceuticals cosmetics food or other suitable items. It is noted that items may be stocked managed or dispensed in terms of discrete countable units or multiples of units such as packages cartons crates pallets or other suitable aggregations. Alternatively some items such as bulk products commodities etc. may be stored in continuous or arbitrarily divisible amounts that may not be inherently organized into countable units. Such items may be managed in terms of measurable quantities such as units of length area volume weight time duration or other dimensional properties characterized by units of measurement. Generally speaking a quantity of an item may refer to either a countable number of individual or aggregate units of an item or a measurable amount of an item as appropriate.

Items received at fulfillment center for storage may be stored within inventory storage facility which may include any suitable combination or arrangement of item storage structures. For example facility may include racks bins pallets or other types of storage apparatus arranged in a grid or other fashion. In some embodiments facility may include different types of storage suitable for items having special storage requirements. For example certain types of items may be perishable fragile or volatile and may require storage under controlled temperature atmospheric or other conditions. Correspondingly facility may include refrigerated or other types of storage areas configured to satisfy special environmental requirements of certain items . It is contemplated that in some embodiments items may be stored within facility in different configurations than in which they are received. For example units of items may be received in boxes on pallets or in other aggregate units and may be unpacked or otherwise disaggregated for storage as individual units within bins on shelves or in other storage structures within facility .

Inventory management system may generally be configured to track and control the status and movement of inventory items through fulfillment center . In one embodiment as described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of system may include computer accessible media configured to store instructions that are executable e.g. by a processor or computer system to detect events that relate to items and to generate or initiate actions in response to such events. For example system may detect events relating to the arrival of inventory items from a supplier or merchant and may responsively instruct an agent e.g. a mechanical agent or human agent to process the received items and store them appropriately within storage facility . Similarly system may be configured to detect orders for various items that may arrive from merchants on behalf of customers . Responsively system may be configured to instruct an agent to select the appropriate item s for a received order from storage facility and prepare the selected item s for shipping or other conveyance to a corresponding customer . In some embodiments whenever units of a given item are stored within or selected from storage facility system may update an indication corresponding to the given item to reflect its inventory status. For example such an indication may reflect the number of units currently stored within facility the number of units that have been selected from facility but that have not yet left fulfillment center the number of units of given item that are on order and or any other suitable item status information. System may also be configured to process events relating to the processing of damaged or defective items returns received from customers or other exceptional events.

Merchants may arrange to offer various ones of items in commerce to customers . Generally speaking an item may be offered in commerce by a merchant according to any suitable business model. For example an item may be offered in commerce on the basis of a sale rental lease auction barter credit licensing royalty or any other type of transaction. Merchants may offer items in commerce through any of a variety of channels. For example a given merchant may present offers of items via electronic commerce e commerce portals accessible by customers . Such e commerce offerings may variously include listing items via a web based entity e.g. a web site or page hosted by the given merchant and presented as an offering entity distinct from enterprise or listing items via a web based entity hosted by enterprise on behalf of the given merchant .

In some embodiments a merchant may list items via a general web based entity hosted by enterprise such as a marketplace or forum in which many merchants may list offerings. Generally speaking a marketplace e commerce channel may generally refer to a web based entity through which multiple merchants may offer items to customers via one or more web pages. For example a marketplace may be organized to present to customers one or more web pages listing the various merchants offering a particular item in commerce according to various terms e.g. price availability condition etc. . Alternatively a marketplace may be organized to present to customers one or more web pages corresponding to respective virtual storefronts of merchants where each storefront indicates the various offerings of a corresponding merchant . In some embodiments a marketplace may be implemented via a web services application programming interface API described below rather than as one or more web pages. For example catalog information ordering functions and other aspects of a marketplace may be implemented as web services functions that may be invoked by various parties to present items in commerce to customers . Other configurations of e commerce marketplaces are possible and contemplated.

A merchant s e commerce offerings may also include listing items via a third party web entity distinct from enterprise and the merchant such as a third party auction web entity. It is also contemplated that a merchant may present e commerce offerings through entities other than web based entities. For example a merchant may present such offerings through electronic mail electronic bulletin boards or other electronic channels.

In some embodiments merchants may also offer items in commerce to customers through non electronic channels such as catalog telephone or physical storefront channels for example. Alternatively some merchants may offer items in commerce through a combination of different channels. It is also noted that some merchants such as merchant may be affiliated with the enterprise that provides fulfillment services to merchants in general although in other embodiments enterprise may provide fulfillment services for items without operating as a merchant for those items.

Generally speaking customer s may include any entity that may place an order for one or more items via one or more merchants . For example a customer may include an individual institution corporation business organization or other entity. Customers may place orders with merchants via any suitable channel such as one of the e commerce channels described above or via a non electronic order channel. A customer may be an entity that is ultimately legally and or fiscally responsible for an order but need not be such an entity. Similarly a customer may or may not be the intended recipient of items associated with a given order. For example a customer may place an order for items on behalf of another entity that may bear liability for payment or may be the intended recipient. In some embodiments a customer may include multiple individuals or entities that consent to have their ordered items shipped together. For example a customer may correspond to a group of individuals in the same household or business.

After a given customer places an order for one or more items the order may be fulfilled. Generally speaking the fulfillment process may include selecting from storage the item s specified in the order packaging selected item s appropriately for the mode in which they will be conveyed to the customer or other intended recipient and conveying the package or packages to the recipient. For example selected item s may be packaged in one or more boxes envelopes or other types of containers along with protective material promotional materials e.g. advertising leaflets or brochures a packing slip or invoice. The packing container may then be sealed appropriately labeled and tendered to a common carrier e.g. the United States Postal Service or another carrier or another type of carrier or delivery service for delivery to the intended recipient.

As shown in the embodiment of fulfillment center may be configured to offer fulfillment services to a variety of merchants that may be internal or external to the enterprise associated with fulfillment center . In general fulfillment services may include any actions relating to the storage and processing of items within fulfillment center as well as the fulfillment of specific customer orders for various ones of items . For example fulfillment services may include those tasks involved in receiving items into inventory such as taking physical receipt of units or quantities of items examining and or evaluating the condition of received items unpacking or repackaging items if necessary and storing items within storage facility . Fulfillment services may also include selecting or picking items from storage facility in response to a customer order as well as the packaging and shipping tasks described above. In some embodiments fulfillment services may include other tasks undertaken on behalf of a merchant such as inspecting or monitoring the quantity and or condition of items while stored in storage facility receiving and processing items returned from customers processing and disposing of items that are unmarketable for various reasons e.g. items that are surplus damaged expired spoiled etc. engaging in customer service activities e.g. responding to complaints inquiries etc. with customers or other types of tasks. Embodiments of fulfillment center configured to provide fulfillment services to merchants may also be referred to as fulfillment services providers.

In some instances fulfillment center may provide fulfillment services to merchants with greater economies of scale than if merchants were to perform their own fulfillment services. For example the incremental cost of providing a square foot of storage area in a large fulfillment center e.g. one comprising hundreds of thousands of square feet of storage area may be significantly lower than the cost incurred by a small merchant which may have limited space for storage or may be forced by local market conditions to retain more space than required for that merchant s inventory. Similarly fulfillment center may implement sophisticated inventory tracking and management techniques that might be costly and cumbersome to implement on the scale of an individual merchant such as RFID Radio Frequency Identification of items dynamic scheduling and optimization of item selection across multiple orders real time inventory tracking with respect to order receiving and shipping activity or other inventory management techniques. As described in greater detail below in some embodiments fulfillment center may be configured to consolidate a single customer s orders from several merchants which may realize additional economies of scale e.g. by reducing packaging item handling and shipping costs.

Arranging the provision of fulfillment services to various merchants may present challenges however. For example merchants may operate as distinct enterprises having methods and systems for inventory management and accounting that differ from one another as well as from enterprise . As a result merchants and enterprise may lack a uniform way of identifying inventory items . For example a given merchant may identify and manage a particular item by that item s Universal Product Code UPC whereas the same item may be identified within fulfillment center by a proprietary unique identification number. Further merchants may wish to dynamically change the fulfillment services they receive for various items . For example a particular merchant may wish to expeditiously transition from performing its own fulfillment for an item to receiving fulfillment services for that item from fulfillment center or vice versa. If such a transition were to require manual approvals e.g. of the merchant s eligibility or the item s suitability for fulfillment services and or a manual integration of relevant aspects of the particular merchant s inventory and order management systems with those of fulfillment center the overhead of arranging for fulfillment services may significantly erode the savings or efficiencies provided by such services. For example if enterprise were condition processing of fulfillment services requests on manual lookup and entry of data provided by a merchant days or weeks might elapse

In one embodiment fulfillment center may be configured to provide a registration interface through which a merchant may register to receive fulfillment services for one or more items where operation of the registration interface to process a request for fulfillment services does not require human intervention. For example the interface may provide an automated process through which a merchant may complete those tasks necessary to initiate fulfillment services for various items . As described in greater detail below in various embodiments such an automated process may include evaluating the credentials of a merchant e.g. whether the merchant is known to enterprise in good financial status etc. assessing the items for which fulfillment services have been requested e.g. whether the items qualify for the requested services and providing the requesting merchant with the information needed to complete the fulfillment services request e.g. providing labels to be applied to items for fulfillment center inventory control shipping labels for shipping items to a fulfillment center instructions status reports or other information . The fulfillment center s portion of each of these tasks may be performed automatically and without human intervention as detailed below.

One embodiment of a fulfillment services registration interface is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment inventory management system of fulfillment center is shown to include a registration interface configured to interact with a database . In one embodiment registration interface may be configured to present an interface through which a given merchant may specify a request for fulfillment services enter data related to the requested services and engage in those processing actions deemed necessary by enterprise for given merchant to receive the requested services. For example in one embodiment interface may be configured to present to a merchant one or more web pages accessible via the public Internet or a private intranet e.g. a private network maintained by or on behalf of enterprise requiring some level of authentication or secured connection for access . Such a web page may include fillable forms menus executable applications e.g. applications coded in Java Javascript or another language suitable for web based execution or other web based interface elements.

In another embodiment interface may be configured to present a proprietary or non web based registration interface to merchants . For example interface may be accessible through a dialup or non web based Internet connection such as via a terminal emulation program such as telnet or via another type of standard or proprietary application suitable for transmitting information between a merchant and inventory management system . In yet another embodiment interface may include a web services interface for merchant fulfillment services registration as described in greater detail below. In some embodiments interface may include other types or modes of interface implementations including various combinations of the aforementioned techniques configured for communicating with merchants to perform activities related to registering for or managing use of fulfillment services.

In the illustrated embodiment interface may be configured to store fulfillment services registration data received from merchants or other data that is derived from or produced as a result of or in relation to a merchant s fulfillment services registration activity within database . Generally speaking database may include any suitable type of application or data structure that may be configured as a persistent data repository. For example database may be configured as a relational database that includes one or more tables of columns and rows and that may be searched or queried according to a query language such as a version of Structured Query Language SQL . Alternatively database may be configured as a structured data store that includes data records formatted according to a markup language such as a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML . In other embodiments database may be implemented using one or more arbitrarily or minimally structured data files managed and accessible through any suitable type of application.

Database may generally be configured to store any kind of data related to merchants items and or requests for fulfillment services in various stages of processing. For example database may be configured to store identifying information about merchants such as names and address of merchant personnel or departments merchant billing and shipping address information merchant banking or other financial information or other identifying information. Database may also be configured to store current and or historical status information regarding inventory or sales transactions of merchants such as a merchant s order history payment history the status of a merchant s inventory items within fulfillment center the status of any pending fulfillment services requests for a merchant or other types of status information. In some embodiments database may also be configured to store identifier mapping information for items . For example database may store records that relate a given merchant s identifier for a particular item e.g. a merchant s stock keeping unit SKU identifier with an identifier that may be specific to enterprise or to fulfillment center . Such mapping information may be used for example to associate a merchant s fulfillment services request. In some embodiments database may include information regarding items eligible for and or registered for export services as described in more detail below.

It is noted that database need not be integrated within inventory management system or even within fulfillment center . In some embodiments merchant and or inventory data may be stored in a number of different data stores distributed throughout enterprise . For example merchant financial data may be stored in an accounting database associated with an accounting department of enterprise that may be distinct from a fulfillment department such as fulfillment center . Similarly in some embodiments interface may be configured to interact with a variety of systems applications or databases within or external to inventory management system in addition to or instead of database .

One embodiment of a method through which a fulfillment services provider or simply provider such as fulfillment center may receive and process a request for inventory fulfillment services from a merchant is illustrated in . It is contemplated that in various embodiments the illustrated method or a suitable variant thereof may be implemented via computer executed instructions stored on a computer accessible medium as described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of or via dedicated computing hardware devices that may be state dependent e.g. state machines but which may not execute discrete instructions per se. It is further contemplated that in some embodiments some or all of the illustrated method may be implemented by decision logic included within interface while in other embodiments interface may be configured to relay merchant state information e.g. inputs or outputs of the fulfillment services registration process to and from other executable components systems or devices within inventory management system or fulfillment center . In such other embodiments some or all of the illustrated method may be implemented by components other than interface . It is noted that in various embodiments a merchant may submit a single fulfillment services request applicable to multiple different items or may submit respective requests for each of several items . Although examples discussed hereinafter may refer to processing of a single item it is understood that the method may be applicable to the concurrent fulfillment services request processing of multiple different items .

In the illustrated embodiment operation begins in block where a request for inventory fulfillment services is received by a fulfillment services provider from a merchant . For example such a request may be received via one embodiment of registration interface as a result of a merchant signing into a secure web page using a merchant identifier and an appropriate credential e.g. a login name and password or any other suitable type of credential and subsequently selecting an option to request fulfillment services e.g. a link button etc. displayed via the secure web page. In other embodiments such a request may be received via web services calls or via a mode of communication that does not employ web based protocols.

Upon receiving a fulfillment services request from a merchant the provider may determine whether the requesting merchant is eligible to receive fulfillment services block . In some embodiments merchant eligibility for fulfillment services may depend on the merchant s historical behavior. For example the current status or history of the merchant s prior transactions with the provider or another enterprise may be examined to determine whether the merchant has engaged in fraudulent or questionable transactions with customers vendors the provider or other parties. In some embodiments a merchant s creditworthiness customer service history or any other data related to the merchant or in some cases related to fiscally responsible entities or individuals associated with the merchant such as guarantors principals executives etc. may be taken into account when considering a merchant s eligibility for fulfillment services and such data may include data obtained from third parties such as credit reporting agencies business references customers and the like.

In various embodiments the provider may implement decision models of varying complexity taking into account any of the foregoing types of merchant data or other types not specifically mentioned in order to render a decision as to whether the requesting merchant is eligible for fulfillment services. For example in one embodiment any history of fraudulent behavior may disqualify a merchant whereas in other embodiments a more sophisticated risk analysis model may consider such behavior in the context of other data points. It is contemplated that in some embodiments eligibility for fulfillment services may depend on the type or volume of services requested. For example a merchant having little history or questionable history may be allowed access to fulfillment services on a trial or probationary basis with such access restricted to certain types quantities or value of items or restricted on some other basis.

If the requesting merchant is determined to be ineligible for fulfillment services the merchant may be prevented from proceeding with automated fulfillment services request processing block . In some embodiments the merchant may be directed to contact a fulfillment services agent e.g. a customer service representative for further information or assistance in processing the fulfillment services request for example to receive an explanation of the reasons for disqualification and of actions that may be taken if any to remedy the situation.

If the requesting merchant is determined to be eligible for fulfillment services the provider may determine whether the merchant is already registered to receive fulfillment services block . In one embodiment determining a merchant s registration status may include determining whether the merchant has supplied data that the provider deems necessary to perform fulfillment services on behalf of the merchant. For example registration may be contingent upon a merchant agreeing e.g. electronically or in writing to a fulfillment services participation agreement that details obligations and expectations of the provider and the merchant relating to fulfillment services such as the merchant s agreeing to abide by various financial procedural customer service or other policies . Registration may also be contingent upon a merchant providing sufficient identifying information as set forth below. In some embodiments determining whether a merchant is registered may include determining whether the merchant has previously registered for fulfillment services and if so assuming that the merchant is registered without checking each data item required of the merchant for registration. Also in some embodiments if the previous registration or any previous fulfillment services activity on behalf of the merchant occurred more than a threshold period of time prior to the current fulfillment services request the merchant may be required to provide some or all of the registration data once again. It is noted that in some embodiments determination of a merchant s registration status may occur prior to determination of the merchant s eligibility for fulfillment services.

If the requesting merchant is determined not to be registered the provider may request registration data from the merchant block . For example a fillable web form or other request for merchant input may be provided or displayed to the merchant via interface . Requested input may include information such as the merchant s name phone number address bank name bank routing number and account number taxpayer identification information and or any other suitable information. Additionally if necessary or appropriate a participation agreement may be conveyed to the merchant via interface along with a solicitation for the merchant to expressly accept or refuse the agreement. The merchant may then enter or supply the requested data in a manner suitable to the mode in which the request was delivered e.g. by filling out a web based form.

The provider may then attempt to validate the registration data provided by the merchant block . For example the provider may check to see that all required data has been provided and may corroborate certain data items with third parties e.g. by checking contact or banking information against a public address database or the specified bank respectively. The provider may also check to see whether the merchant indicated acceptance of the participation agreement if applicable. If any portion of the provided data fails to validate the merchant may request that the merchant reenter the data or may terminate automated fulfillment services request processing and request that the merchant contact an agent for further assistance block .

If the provided data is valid or the merchant is determined to have already registered the provider may request identifying information associated with the item s for which the merchant is requesting fulfillment services block . For example interface may display another web based form through which the merchant may provide item identifying information. In some embodiments item identifying information may be supplied along with the initial request for fulfillment services and a separate request for this information may not be made by the provider. Also in some embodiments a merchant may specify a quantity of the item for which fulfillment services are requested in addition to item identifying information.

The provider may then determine whether it has sufficient information about the item as identified by the requesting merchant to process the fulfillment services request for that item block . In one embodiment the provider may make this determination by first determining whether the item is known to the provider e.g. whether the provider has some record of information associated with the item . For example as noted previously an item may be identified by a merchant in a different manner than by fulfillment center . In one embodiment the merchant may provide the merchant s own unique identifier such as a merchant specified SKU identifier as identifying information for an item . In response the provider may determine whether there exists a mapping from the merchant s unique identifier to an identifier known to the provider for example by querying database using the merchant s identifier to determine whether a corresponding record includes the provider s identifier. In another embodiment when supplying identifying information for an item the requesting merchant may provide an identifier known to the provider instead of or in addition to a merchant specified identifier.

If the provider has insufficient information to process the fulfillment services request for the identified item the provider may solicit additional information from the merchant block . For example if the provider could not locate a record for item on the basis of a merchant specific identifier such as a merchant s SKU the provider may solicit the requesting merchant for a provider specific identifier or a generic identifier such as a Universal Product Code identifier if available. In some embodiments the provider may provide item search capabilities via interface in order to allow a requesting merchant to determine whether the item for which fulfillment services have been requested is known to the provider. For example the provider may provide a keyword search feature to allow the requesting merchant to enter keywords relevant to an item . Alternatively the provider may allow the requesting merchant to navigate a hierarchy of item categories to ascertain whether the item identified by the merchant is included in the hierarchy and in some embodiments to determine the most similar item in the hierarchy if the item is not included.

In some circumstances the provider may have no information corresponding to an item for which fulfillment services have been requested. For example the provider may never have provided fulfillment services for the item before either for the requesting merchant or any other merchant. In some embodiments the provider may be configured to request the necessary information in this case. For example the provider may request that the requesting merchant provide information such as item dimensions weight item type or class information e.g. according to a taxonomy or hierarchy defined by the provider item special characteristics e.g. whether the item is liquid perishable a hazardous material requires special handling or storage conditions etc. or any other information deemed necessary by the provider to identify the item to determine whether the item is eligible for fulfillment services and or to facilitate the provision of fulfillment services.

Once the provider has sufficient information about the identified item the provider may determine whether the item is eligible for the requested fulfillment services block . For example in one embodiment the provider may disallow fulfillment services for certain types of items such as hazardous items. In another embodiment a merchant may be restricted from requesting fulfillment services for certain items according to its participation agreement or fee structure current business relationship with the provider the current state of the merchant s other inventory with respect to the provider or any other suitable criterion. For example a merchant may contract with a provider to receive fulfillment services for a certain quantity of an item over a given period of time such that fulfillment requests for additional quantities of that item may be disallowed.

If the fulfillment services request cannot be processed owing to ineligibility of the item the provider may notify the requesting merchant via interface and automated fulfillment services request processing may terminate block . Otherwise the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to convey some specified quantity of item to the provider such as a quantity that may have been specified by the requesting merchant in or subsequent to the request for fulfillment services block .

In one embodiment in instructing the merchant to convey item the provider may provide the requesting merchant with data to be used by the merchant to identify individual units of item . For example the provider may convey a document file to the merchant via interface such as a Portable Document Format PDF file or another type of document file which includes alphanumeric bar code or other information indicative of identifying information that may be used to manage units of the item within fulfillment center . In various embodiments such identifying information may uniquely identify each individual unit of the item may generically identify the units as being identical instances of the kind or type of item or may combine information generic to the item with information specific to a particular unit of the item . For example the provided identifying information may include a serial number that is unique to a particular unit of an item a UPC or similar product code that is generic to all units of an item or a code that identifies the product type of item as well as the condition of a particular unit e.g. new used damaged etc. . Any suitable type or combination of identifying information may be employed. The provided document may be used to generate labels to be respectively affixed to individual units of item . For example the requesting merchant may upon receiving the document print its contents on label stock and affix the labels to units of item as appropriate.

The provider may also provide the requesting merchant with data to be used by the merchant to convey item to the provider. In one embodiment the provider may convey a document file such as a PDF document or other type of document file to the merchant via interface that includes data indicative of shipping information. For example the document file may include address information bar code data and or other data that may be used to generate a shipping label. Such a shipping label may be a generic shipping label suitable for tendering a package to any type of carrier. Alternatively the shipping label data may be tailored to a particular carrier for example by including bar code geographic code or other routing or handling information specific to the particular carrier. In some embodiments shipping information data may be included in the same document used to convey unit identifying information as described above while in other embodiments shipping information data may be conveyed in a separate document. It is noted that in various embodiments the provider may convey unit identifying information shipping information both or neither to the requesting merchant .

In some embodiments shipping related data provided to the requesting merchant may reflect the number of discrete shipments or packages expected from the requesting merchant . For example the merchant may indicate that the specified quantity of item for which fulfillment services have been requested may be divided among a certain number of packages. Alternatively the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to divide the specified quantity among shipments in a particular way. In some embodiments the shipping data provided to the requesting merchant in the case of multiple shipments or packages of a particular item may uniquely identify each shipment or package for example by including bar code or other information to be included on shipping labels generated from the shipping data. It is contemplated that in some embodiments the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to ship different quantities of item to different fulfillment centers and shipping data conveyed to the requesting merchant may reflect this distribution. For example the provider may specify the distribution according to available storage resources at various fulfillment centers . Alternatively the provider or the requesting merchant may wish to ensure a particular geographical distribution of item among different fulfillment centers for example to satisfy expected patterns of demand.

In many cases upon receiving instructions to convey the specified quantity of item to the provider the requesting merchant may appropriately package and ship item to the provider according to the received instructions. For example the requesting merchant may print item labels and affix them to units of item pack the units in one or more packages for shipment print shipping labels and affix them to the package s and tender the package s to a shipper or carrier for shipment to the provider. However the requesting merchant need not be in actual possession of item . In some embodiments the requesting merchant may arrange with a third party such as a manufacturer distributor vendor or other type of supplier to convey the specified quantity of item to the provider. For example the requesting merchant may forward item identifying and or shipping information to the third party which may arrange to convey item to the provider on behalf of the requesting merchant .

Subsequent to instructing the requesting merchant to convey the specified quantity of item the provider may receive item block and store item into inventory block . For example one or more packages including units of item may arrive at fulfillment center . In various embodiments the package s may be scanned unpacked inspected and or otherwise processed and units of item may be stored within storage facility . Inventory management system may also be appropriately updated to reflect the status of received units of item and in some embodiments the requesting merchant may be notified that item is available for fulfillment.

In some embodiments the provider may receive a notification of shipment from the requesting merchant before item arrives. In some such embodiments either the provider or the requesting merchant may update an indication of availability of item in response to such a notification. For example the requesting merchant may offer item in commerce via an e commerce channel maintained by enterprise such as a web based storefront or a marketplace. In response to a notification of shipment received from the requesting merchant enterprise may update an offering display or listing of item to indicate an expected lead time or other indication of availability taking into account factors such as expected time in transit from the requesting merchant to the provider processing time to receive and store item at the provider and or other factors affecting availability of item .

It is noted that in some embodiments a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center may operate to allow a merchant to request fulfillment services for an item to conduct those actions necessary to validate the eligibility of the merchant and the item for the requested services and to convey to the merchant the data necessary for the merchant to prepare item for the requested services and convey item to the provider. In particular it is noted that fulfillment center may perform these tasks in an entirely automated manner such that if the requesting merchant and the item satisfy the provider s eligibility requirements the fulfillment services request may be processed without human intervention. For example by interacting with fulfillment center via registration interface a merchant may complete a fulfillment services request for an item ship item to fulfillment center and begin relaying customer orders for item to fulfillment center for fulfillment as detailed below without depending on the actions of an agent of fulfillment center external to registration interface . Such an automated fulfillment services request processing system may also be referred to as a self service system in that a merchant may interact with the system entirely on its own initiative.

In one embodiment in addition to providing a self service registration interface through which merchants may request inventory fulfillment services for various items a fulfillment services provider may provide a management interface through which merchants may manage various aspects of the fulfillment services applicable to their items . illustrates an embodiment of inventory management system similar to that of with the addition of a management interface that may be configured to interact with database as well as merchant .

Management interface may be configured to present an interface through which a given merchant may perform any of a variety of functions described below with respect to items for which the given merchant may have previously requested fulfillment services e.g. via registration interface . Like registration interface in one embodiment management interface may be configured to present to a merchant one or more web pages accessible via the public Internet or a private intranet e.g. a private network maintained by or on behalf of enterprise requiring some level of authentication or secured connection for access . Such a web page may include fillable forms menus executable applications e.g. applications coded in Java Javascript or another language suitable for web based execution or other web based interface elements. In other embodiments management interface may be configured to present a non web based management interface or a web services based management interface to merchants in a manner similar to that described above with respect to registration interface .

In some embodiments it is contemplated that both registration interface and management interface may be implemented as distinct or integrated portions of a web based fulfillment services portal. For example functionality associated with both registration interface and management interface may be implemented via respective web pages or groups of web pages presented to merchants as aspects of a centralized fulfillment services website. Alternatively such functionality may be presented through respective sets of web services calls presented to merchants as a general web services API for registration for and management of fulfillment services.

As described above in one embodiment after a merchant has registered an item for fulfillment services the item may be placed under the physical custody and management of fulfillment center . In such an embodiment the supply chain for items may be extended to encompass items in transit from the merchant to fulfillment center and from fulfillment center to customers in addition to the status of items within fulfillment center . In some cases the general supply chain for an item may also account for the reverse supply chain reflecting the flow of returned units from customers and or units removed from fulfillment center and conveyed back to a merchant . In some embodiments management interface may be configured to provide a given merchant with visibility into the status of the general supply chain with respect to its registered items . For example management interface may provide an indication or display of the quantity of units of a given item that are in transit between given merchant fulfillment center and or customers at any given time e.g. including tracking information for units in transit if available or applicable .

In one embodiment management interface may also provide an indication of the status of units of given item held in inventory within fulfillment center such as identifying units committed to orders but not yet picked or shipped identifying units that are spoiled or damaged or identifying any other relevant inventory status information. In some embodiments management interface may provide to a merchant explanatory information regarding problems or exceptions that arise in the supply chain for an item . For example if units of an item were damaged upon arrival at fulfillment center from merchant or were otherwise in a state or condition different from that expected from or indicated by merchant when fulfillment services were requested for the units e.g. used rather than new condition management interface may be configured to display such information to merchant and allow the merchant to specify an action to resolve the problem. For example management interface may allow the merchant to instruct that damaged items be disposed of or returned to the merchant to allow the merchant to arrange to convey additional units to fulfillment center e.g. to cover outstanding orders or to take another suitable action. More generally management interface may allow merchant to request on its own initiative that units of an item be withdrawn from inventory e.g. for return to merchant repositioned among different fulfillment centers or disposed of.

Generally speaking management interface may be configured to provide any type of function suitable for monitoring or altering the status of a given item within the extended supply chain encompassing a merchant fulfillment center and customers . In some embodiments the supply chain and management interface functionality may be extended to other third parties such as manufacturers distributors wholesalers or other parties that may be involved in transactions pertaining to given item .

In other embodiments management interface may be configured to provide functions that may not be directly related to supply chain monitoring or management. In one embodiment management interface may be configured to provide an interface through which a merchant may receive notice of customer service issues raised on behalf of customers and to participate in their resolution. For example inventory management system may be configured to receive reports of customer service issues raised with respect to particular orders and to identify the merchant s associated with those orders or specific items included in the orders . System may then direct such customer service reports associated with a given merchant to an inbox forum or other repository accessible by the given merchant via management interface . Alternatively management interface may forward such reports directly to the given merchant for example via email. In response to a given report the given merchant may participate in resolving the issue via management interface for example by arranging for an item to be returned or replaced arranging for a refund or credit to be issued to a customer or indicating another suitable action.

Another service that may in some embodiments be provided by a fulfillment services provider is an order export service. For example in addition to providing order fulfillment services to one or more merchants through which orders for inventory items may be shipped domestically a fulfillment services provider may also facilitate the shipment of one or more inventory items to international destinations on behalf of one or more merchants . Such an export service may include the services provider completing required export documents on behalf of merchants calculating and collecting customs duties and or remitting customs duties to the appropriate taxing authority e.g. a foreign customs office in various embodiments.

One embodiment of a method through which a fulfillment services provider may receive and process a request for export services from a merchant is illustrated in . In this example the fulfillment services provider may receive a request for export services from a given merchant as in . Such a request may be received directly from merchant or on behalf of merchant via a registration interface such as registration interface . For example merchant may sign into a secure web page using a merchant identifier and appropriate credentials e.g. a login name and password or any other suitable type of credentials and may subsequently select an option to request export services e.g. using a link a radio button etc. displayed via the secure web page. In other embodiments a request to receive export services may be received via web services calls or via a mode of communication that does not employ web based protocols.

In order to determine if the request for export services is valid i.e. that it may be successfully processed the method may include both determining if merchant is eligible to receive export services as in of and determining if the items for which merchant requests export services may be legally exported as in of . Determining if merchant is eligible to receive export services may in various embodiments include searching for an identifier of the merchant on a government watch list performing a criminal background check credit check or other authentication check of merchant or determining if merchant is already receiving order fulfillment services from the service provider i.e. merchant may have already been approved to receive services from the provider as described above . In some embodiments merchant may not be eligible to receive export services because of the nature of their business. For example if all of the merchant s items are classified such that they may not legally be exported merchant may not be eligible to register for export services whether or not they are eligible to receive domestic order fulfillment services. In other embodiments the merchant may be determined to be eligible to receive export services for some but not all of his or her items as described in more detail below. In some embodiments various eligibility checks may be performed automatically in response to a request for services such as by one or more software modules configured to access such background information and or perform such checks while in others such checks may be performed by or initiated by an agent of the fulfillment services provider.

If it is determined that merchant is not eligible to receive export services indicated as the negative exit from an indication may be provided that merchant is not eligible to register for such services as in . For example if the request for export services is received via a web interface an indication that merchant is not eligible to receive export services may be displayed in one or more input output fields of a request and or response web page.

If it is determined that merchant is eligible to receive export services indicated as the positive exit from the method may include requesting information identifying one or more items to be registered as eligible for export by the services provider on behalf of merchant as in . For example in some embodiments each request for export services may include a request for export services for a single item or category of items provided by merchant . In other embodiments each request for export services may include a request for export services for a list of items e.g. a list of item identifiers . Such a list may include any i.e. any subset or all of the items offered by merchant in different embodiments. For example one request for export services may include a single request for export services for all of the merchant s items that are currently included in a registration for order fulfillment services and or for any additional items added to the items handled by the fulfillment services provider in the future without listing the individual items themselves. In some embodiments processing a request for export services may include the fulfillment services provider determining which if any of the merchant s products may be legally exported and providing an indication that those items may be eligible for export services. In some embodiments merchant may be presented with a list of items currently being handled by the fulfillment services provider and may be prompted to identify the items for which export services are requested.

In addition to identifiers of items for export services other information about the items may be required in order to register merchant to receive export services. If the fulfillment services provider does not have sufficient information about the items to process an export services request indicated as the negative exit from the method may include soliciting additional information from merchant as in . For example any or all of the following may be requested a weight of an item dimensions of an item a classification of an item e.g. an Export Control Classification Number ECCN or Harmonized Tariff code HS and a value or cost of an item. In other embodiments the ECCN and or HS code for inventory items may be determined by the fulfillment services provider.

In some embodiments merchant may also be prompted to indicate the particular countries and or regions to which he or she would like to export items and or particular countries and or regions to which merchant does not desire to export items . These restrictions may be specified for individual items or categories of items or for all of the merchant s items in different embodiments. For example merchant may indicate that he or she wishes to receive export services for shipping any of his or her items registered for export services to destinations in the countries of the European Union EU but not to destinations in Cuba South America Asia or Africa. In another example merchant may indicate that books may be shipped to any country or region but software products may only be shipped to EU countries. In yet another example merchant may not specify any restrictions on destinations but may indicate a request for export services for any legal combination of items and destinations as determined by the fulfillment services provider when an order is received. In some embodiments merchant may be prompted to provide information indicating a list of specific entities e.g. persons or companies to which the merchant does or does not authorize export of some or all of its products. For example merchant may specify that some or all of its products are only authorized to be exported to persons or companies with which it has an established business relationship e.g. those identified on a list provided to the services provider .

Any additional information requested of and received from merchant may be provided via a web interface as described above or through any other suitable user interface mechanism. For example merchant may be prompted to provide additional information in an email and may respond by sending a reply email. In another example merchant may be prompted to provide additional information in an email and may be given instructions regarding how to provide the additional information via the fulfillment services provider s web site.

In some embodiments merchant may be offered an opportunity to provide one or more logos for the services provider to use when shipping one or more items to domestic or international destinations. Such logos may be associated with a particular item or category of items with merchant and or with the services provider in different embodiments. These logos may in various embodiments be included on packaging e.g. shipping boxes or other containers and or on documents e.g. packing lists packing labels export documentation invoices etc. related to a shipment that includes one or more items provided by merchant . For example a merchant s logo may be received and or stored as an image file e.g. a .jpg .tif .bmp or .gif file and may be formatted according to a size and or aspect ratio suitable for printing on export documentation e.g. a shipping label or other documentation or directly on a shipping container e.g. a box or packing envelope .

Once sufficient information has been received regarding the item s for which export services are requested the method may include determining if the item s are eligible for export as in . In some embodiments this determination may include searching for the item s on one or more governmental lists used in regulating exports such as the Commerce Control List CCL and or the U.S. Munitions List USML . These and other lists may provide information indicating that one or more items for which the merchant has requested export services may not be exported at all or may not be exported to particular countries entities or persons e.g. those included on a denied persons lists unverified persons list entity list specially designated nations list debarred list or non proliferation sanctions list as described in more detail below. For example one or more items may be restricted for export depending on their classification e.g. their ECCN classification as defense articles including technical data or may be restricted for reasons of crime control e.g. pornography or materials violating copyright law weapons control national security nuclear non proliferation regional stability U.S. or U.N. embargos agricultural restrictions anti terrorism or other reasons. Some items that may be exported to all or a subset of international destinations may require a validated export license which may be included in export control documentation to be generated and provided to an international carrier and or one or more government agencies. For example the export of items that require a validated export license may require that a Shipper s Export Declaration including a merchant s export license number be generated in addition to or instead of standard export control documentation required of all exported shipments e.g. a form CN 22 and or CP 72 as described below .

In some embodiments a fulfillment services provider may decline to provide requested export services due to a business policy of the service provider rather than due to a regulatory restriction. For example a service provider may make a business decision not to provide export services to merchants with whom they do not already have a business relationship or to merchants with whom they have had unsatisfactory business experiences in the past. In another example a fulfillment services provider may make a business decision not to export to particular countries even if there are no legal restrictions to exporting to those countries. In yet another example a fulfillment services provider may make a decision not to export particular items or categories of items that require special handling additional documentation or other non standard international shipping procedures e.g. hazardous materials items classified as dual use technologies or items exceeding a given size weight or value or to export such items in split shipments e.g. separately from items that may be shipped using standard procedures .

While in the embodiment described above determining if the items are eligible for export includes searching for the items on one or more lists of restricted items in other embodiments determining if the items are eligible for export may include prompting the merchant to indicate that he or she certifies that the items are eligible for export according to current regulations.

As illustrated in if it is determined that one or more items for which merchant has requested export services are not eligible for export services indicated as the negative exit from the method may include providing an indication that the item s are not eligible for export as in . For example if the request for export services is received via a web interface an indication that the one or more items are not eligible to receive export services may be displayed in one or more input output fields of a request and or response web page.

If it is determined that the item s for which merchant has requested export services are eligible for export services or a subset of the items are eligible for export services the method may include prompting merchant to indicate that he or she agrees to comply with all applicable export regulations as in . For example merchant may be presented with a summary of export regulations and or links to various governmental agency websites on which such regulations are accessible and may be asked to review these regulations before indicating agreement. In another example merchant may be presented with information indicating the items for which export services have been requested and which are eligible for export to be reviewed before indicating agreement. This information may in some embodiments include an indication of any restrictions on the export of particular items such as a list of countries to which they may or may not be legally exported. The information may also include a summary of the responsibilities and or role of merchant and a summary of the responsibilities and or role of the services provider in meeting the applicable regulations. For example it may include a description of the information that the merchant must provide a description of the export documentation the services provider will generate and an indication of whether merchant or the services provider will act as the Principal Party in Interest e.g. the USPPI or exporter of record .

Merchant may provide an indication of whether he or she agrees to comply with the applicable export regulations by entering a digital signature or personal identification number e.g. a PIN selecting a checkbox or radio button on a web page or using any other suitable user interface in various embodiments. In response to merchant indicating that he or she does not agree to comply with the applicable export regulations indicated as the negative exit from the method may include providing an indication that merchant is not eligible to receive export services from the fulfillment services provider as in .

In response to merchant indicating that he or she agrees to comply with the applicable export regulations indicated as the positive exit from the method may include providing export services agreement information to merchant as in . For example in one embodiment a document may be presented to merchant outlining the services to be provided the costs associated with these services and or the role of merchant and the services provider in complying with applicable export regulations as described above. An export services agreement may in some embodiments include a list of items included in the registration for export services a description of any policies of the services provider regarding limits on the value of items that may be exported under the agreement the types of items that may or may not be exported under the agreement and or the destinations to which the provider will or will not export items under the agreement. An export services agreement may also include a description of a return policy for exported items e.g. whether or not returns will be accepted by the provider for undeliverable refused or damaged items and or how any costs associated with replacement return shipping or re stocking of such returns may be allocated between merchant and the provider if applicable an indication of whether the provider will or will not calculate and collect customs duties e.g. expected import duties for exports and or an indication of whether merchant or the provider is responsible for classifying items for export e.g. for determining their ECCN or HS code . In some embodiments an export services agreement may include a statement that merchant releases the fulfillment services provider of any liability related to international shipment of its inventory items e.g. for handling of and costs related to product returns tax or tariff exposure or compliance with applicable export regulations . An export services agreement may in some embodiments also include a description of the provider s policy regarding splitting of shipments for orders of items from multiple merchants as described herein and or an indication of how international shipments will be labeled and or branded e.g. using a logo of one or more merchants and or a logo of the fulfillment services provider . An export services agreement may be implemented as an electronic document that is transmitted to merchant e.g. via email or may be an electronic document presented to merchant via a web browser or other suitable user interface in various embodiments.

As illustrated in the method may include prompting merchant to provide a signature if he or she agrees to the terms of the export services agreement as in . For example merchant may be provided with an input field of a web page into which he or she may enter a signature using a mouse or may be prompted to enter a signature using a touchpad and stylus and to submit the signature to the services provider. In still other embodiments merchant may be provided with an electronic document e.g. an export services agreement that may be printed out and signed by the merchant and the signed document may be returned to the services provider e.g. by mailing the physical document by facsimile transmission or attaching a scan of the signed document to an email reply . In some embodiments merchant may be prompted to enter a signature electronically and then to follow up by providing a hard copy of the signed document to the service provider at a later time e.g. a printed and signed original document may be mailed to the service provider for their records . A signature provided by merchant may in some embodiments be stored by the service provider for use in completing required export documentation on behalf of the merchant as described in more detail below. For example a merchant signature may be received and or stored as a .pdf file or as an image file e.g. a .jpg .tif .bmp or .gif file and may be formatted according to a size and or aspect ratio suitable for printing on export documentation e.g. a shipping label or other documentation .

As illustrated in information regarding an agreement to provide export services for one or more items for a given merchant may be stored for later use as in . For example an identifier of merchant may be stored in a table database or other data structure e.g. database along with a list of items for which export services have been requested and or for which they have been determined to be eligible e.g. for items that have been successfully registered to receive export services with the services provider . In some embodiments additional information about the items and or terms of an export services agreement may also be stored in such a database. For example a list of countries regions or entities to which merchant has authorized exports may be included in the stored information or a matrix structure mapping particular items to countries regions or entities to which they may or may not be exported may be included. In another example an image file representing a signature entered by merchant as part of the registration for export services may be included in the stored information and may be associated with merchant and or the merchant s items that have been authorized for export by the service provider.

Note that while in the operation of storing information about items successfully registered for export is shown as a last step in a registration process i.e. following signature of an export services agreement in other embodiments this operation may be performed at another time such as following the determination that certain items are eligible for export or following receipt of an indication that merchant agrees to comply with applicable export regulations. Similarly other operations illustrated in may be performed in a different order than that illustrated or may be omitted in various embodiments and or other operations not illustrated may be included in a method for registering items for export services.

In addition to the operations illustrated in a fulfillment services provider may in some embodiments perform a compliance monitoring operation with regard to order fulfillment services and or export services. In some embodiments the service provider may perform regular and or periodic searches of various government databases in order to receive and apply updates to its export services registration information. For example lists of destinations entities or persons to which export of various items are restricted or forbidden and or lists of items eligible for export may be updated by the appropriate governmental authority and these changes may be applied to the operation of export services by the provider e.g. by revoking a merchant s export services registration or agreement removing an item from a list of items eligible for export or updating a mapping of items and destinations to which they may or may not be exported . In other embodiments the provider may receive regular periodic or occasional updates from one or more governmental authorities and may use this information to determine if changes should be made to the export services registration information associated with a given merchant and or the merchant s items .

Another form of compliance monitoring that may be employed in some embodiments involves the use of feedback received by the export services operation. For example if customer feedback indicates that the items provided by a given merchant are defective are of low quality or are offensive or otherwise unacceptable in a given market e.g. in a particular country or region the provider may remove the merchant and or items from its export services program and or may modify a list of destinations to which the items may be exported in different embodiments. In some embodiments a component of compliance monitoring may include regular periodic or occasional inspection of items received from a merchant for domestic or international shipping to ensure that they are accurately represented in the provider s registry e.g. that the description size weight and content match what was registered and that they meet required policies of the provider and or conditions agreed to by the merchant at registration e.g. they are legal to sell domestically and or to export they are of acceptable quality they meet the service provider s business goals for respectability and non offensiveness etc. . In such embodiments if any items are determined not to meet the standards of the provider they and or the merchant providing them may be removed from the export services program and or the fulfillment services program.

Note that while an order export service has been described above as a service integrated with an order fulfillment service in some embodiments an order export service may be offered to merchants who do not receive other order fulfillment services from the service provider. For example a given merchant may receive all orders for its items via its own order processing mechanisms. The merchant may fulfill orders for its items itself when they are to be shipped domestically but may contract with an order fulfillment services provider to handle international shipments e.g. to generate the proper export documentation calculate collect and remit any customs duties and or ship orders to international destinations . In such embodiments merchant may provide items to the provider to hold in inventory for potential international shipments or may provide items to the provider for export services in response to receipt of an order for an international destination.

As mentioned previously a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center of enterprise may perform fulfillment services for a variety of items offered in commerce by a number of different merchants . A merchant may request such services via a self service registration interface as described above with respect to .

Once a merchant has arranged to receive fulfillment services for an item from a provider the provider may proceed to fulfill customer orders. In one embodiment a customer may place an order for an item directly with a merchant via a channel through which the merchant offers the item in commerce e.g. through e commerce or other types of channels as described above . In one such embodiment customer orders may be conveyed to fulfillment center from a merchant via inventory management system either via interface or via a different interface configured for order processing. In other embodiments customer orders may be conveyed to fulfillment center through a third party. For example a merchant may present its own order entry interface to customers and assume responsibility for conveying the order to fulfillment center for fulfillment. Alternatively a merchant may arrange for enterprise to host a commerce channel including an order entry interface on behalf of the merchant such that the merchant may not be directly involved in receiving and processing the order but may be fiscally and or legally responsible for the order.

In some circumstances a given customer may place an order for two or more different items offered in commerce by different respective merchants . For example the given customer may place separate orders with each one of the merchants ordering a first item or group of items from a first merchant a second item or group of items from a second merchant and so on in any suitable combination. Alternatively the given customer may place one or more orders via an e commerce channel that allows the given customer to concurrently view the offerings of more than one merchant . For example the given customer may use a virtual shopping cart into which items offered by different merchants can be placed for order processing. Such a shopping cart may allow the given customer s item selections for a particular order to persist across different e commerce channels. For example the contents of a customer s shopping cart may persist as the customer browses from one merchant s web site or listing page to a channel associated with another merchant . In some embodiments a virtual shopping cart may simplify the customer s ordering experience for example by allowing a customer to submit one payment transaction for all items in the cart rather than submitting separate payment transactions for each merchant associated with those items. A virtual shopping cart may also facilitate identification of opportunities to consolidate items ordered from multiple different merchants by a given customer as described in greater detail below.

In a conventional model of order fulfillment items ordered from different merchants would be fulfilled separately which may increase overall costs of fulfillment. For example packaging and shipping a group of items separately may cost more than packaging and shipping those items together. However in some embodiments a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center may be configured to consolidate items ordered by a single customer from multiple merchants such that at least some items ordered from different merchants are packaged and shipped as a single shipment while each merchant remains the merchant of record for its respective item . In shipping certain items together costs of fulfillment may be reduced and the resulting savings passed along to the customer or retained as profit by merchants and or enterprise . At the same time each merchant may remain the merchant of record for items it offers in commerce retaining the fiscal legal and or other obligations and benefits associated therewith. That is although the fulfillment services provider may have physical custody of items for which it provides fulfillment services on behalf of merchants the provider may simply function as an intermediary rather than a principal in transactions between merchants and customers . In various embodiments the role of the provider in fulfilling an order may or may not be visible to a customer .

One embodiment of a method of fulfilling orders for items on behalf of a number of different merchants is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center receives one or more orders placed by a customer for at least two different items offered in commerce by different respective merchants . In some embodiments one or more of the merchants may have requested fulfillment services for its corresponding ordered item via a self services fulfillment services interface such as interface as described above with respect to . As described previously the order s may be received from merchants directly from the customer or via a third party. In embodiments where a virtual shopping cart is employed the relationship among the different items the different merchants and the ordering customer may be explicit or implicit in the data records generated as a result of processing the virtual shopping cart contents. For example the virtual shopping cart may assign a common order identifier to each item that forms a component of the customer s order which may facilitate the provider s combining of items into shipments as described below.

In some embodiments if multiple distinct orders are received from a single customer either from the same or different merchants the orders may be linked by the provider for example on the basis of a common customer identifier or a common order identifier that may be coordinated among merchants and the provider. Once identified as linked or related the multiple orders may be processed as a single order for the fulfillment processes described below to the extent possible. In some such embodiments the provider may only link orders that are placed or received within a given interval of time such as orders placed within one hour one day etc. The interval may depend on the mode of delivery specified by the customer. For example if a customer requests expedited shipping for a given order the interval of time for linking the given order to other orders may be relatively short to prevent delay in shipping the given order.

Subsequent to receiving the order s the specified items may be retrieved from storage block . For example in one embodiment customer orders may be processed by inventory management system to generate instructions for a human or mechanical picker to select the specified items from within inventory storage facility . It is contemplated that in some embodiments the specified items may be retrieved along with other items destined for unrelated orders. For example system may divide a number of orders up among multiple pickers in order to optimize picker efficiency particularly in instances where the items specified in a given order are widely distributed throughout fulfillment center .

At least two of the retrieved items corresponding to two different merchants may then be packaged block . For example the retrieved items may be delivered to a packaging area within fulfillment center to be appropriately packaged for shipment which may include selection of appropriate boxes or other enclosures insertion of protective packing materials and or inclusion of a packing slip invoice manifest promotional materials or other materials. In some embodiments if all items corresponding to the customer s order s are present in the fulfillment center they may be packaged as a single package for shipment or divided among multiple packages if cost item characteristics or shipper requirements dictate. In some cases fulfillment of ordered items may be distributed across different fulfillment centers for example depending on item availability.

Subsequently a package including at least two items corresponding to two different merchants may be shipped to the customer block . For example the package or packages may be tendered to a common carrier for shipping.

The method illustrated in may be applicable to fulfillment of orders to be shipped to domestic destinations on behalf of one or more merchants receiving order fulfillment services from an order fulfillment services provider. As described above a fulfillment services provider may also facilitate the shipment of orders to international destinations on behalf of a merchant by providing various export services. One such method is illustrated in . In this example a fulfillment services provider may receive an order for one or more items on behalf of a customer as in . In various embodiments the order may be received by the fulfillment services provider directly from the customer through one or more merchants offering the item s or through a third party as described above.

As illustrated in the method may include determining if the order has an international destination address as in . If it is determined that the order does not have an international destination address indicated by the negative exit from the method may include proceeding with a standard shipping process for domestic orders such as that illustrated in . This is shown at block . If on the other hand it is determined that the order has an international destination address indicated as the positive exit from the method may include determining if the items included in the order are eligible for export to the specified international destination as shown at . Determining that the items are eligible for export to the specified international destination may include both determining that the items are registered to be exported by the fulfillment services provider and that they may be legally exported to the specified international destination and or entity. In general determining if an order request that includes exporting one or more items is legally permissible may include determining what is to be exported where it is going who will receive it and how it will be used.

Determining that the items are registered for export services may in some embodiments include searching a table database or other data structure e.g. database for information indicating that the particular items have been determined to be eligible for exporting and or that the merchants providing those items have been successfully registered to receive export services for the items .

As noted above determining that the items may be legally exported to the specified destination and or entity may include comparing the items to one or more lists of items e.g. the CCL or USML and or determining if the destination entity and or person receiving the item may legally receive them. For example in some embodiments the fulfillment services provider may receive information identifying an entity and or person that will receive the item in addition to a destination address. The fulfillment services provider may in some embodiments compare these identifiers to various lists of destinations entities or persons eligible and or ineligible to receive particular exported items . For example a comparison may be made between one or more identifiers of an order recipient and a denied persons list unverified list entity list special designated nationals list debarred list non proliferation sanctions UN embargo list or other watch list in some embodiments. In another example another kind of check may be performed using an identifier of a recipient such as a criminal background check or an authentication of the recipient s business affiliation and or address. These comparisons and or checks to determine if the recipient specified in the order may legally receive the items may in some embodiments be performed automatically in response to receipt of an order having an international destination e.g. by one or more software modules configured to perform the comparisons and or checks or may be initiated or performed by an agent of the provider in different embodiments. In still other embodiments a provider may decline to export one or more items to a given international destination entity or person dependent on an internal policy such as that described above regarding acceptance of a request for export services. For example a provider may decline to export items to a particular entity with which it has had a previously unsatisfactory business relationship or that engages in a type of business that the provider has chosen not to serve. In another example a provider may decline to export items to a particular country even if legally permitted to do so if it has received information about government corruption looting of exported items economic and or political instability or customer complaints regarding the delivery of exported items to that country according to the business practices of the fulfillment services provider.

If it is determined that one or more items of the order are not eligible for export to the specified destination indicated as the negative exit from the method may include providing an indication that the item or items cannot be exported by the fulfillment services provider to the specified destination as in . For example in one embodiment if the customer enters the order through a web interface an indication that one or more items in the order cannot be exported by the fulfillment services provider as requested may be presented to the customer in an input output field of an order entry processing web page. Such an indication may also be provided to a merchant that provides one or more of the items included in the order e.g. an indication may be provided that a customer order was received but that the provider was not able to fulfill it . In some embodiments if any or all of the items may not be exported as requested the order entry process may be terminated not shown . In other embodiments if at least one of the items may be exported by the fulfillment services provider to the destination requested the order fulfillment process may proceed as in . In some embodiments if one or more items in the order and or the merchants providing them are not registered for export services the method may include offering the merchant providing those items an opportunity to register the item or items for export services such as using the method illustrated in . This is shown at block .

As illustrated in if any of the items in the order are registered for export service the method may include generating export documentation for the shipping of those items to the requested international destination as in . Generating export documentation for shipping the eligible items may in some embodiments include accessing a table database or other data structure to obtain information about the items and or the merchants that provide them that may be necessary for completion of the export documentation. For example the method may include extracting based on an identifier of the given merchant and or identifiers of the items address information for the merchant tax and or license information for the merchant e.g. a federal tax identifier export license number export license exception code and or other regulatory identifier export services preferences of the merchant e.g. which items have been authorized by the merchant for export and or destinations or entities authorized to receive exports or restricted from receiving exports as described earlier a logo received from the merchant and a signature provided by the merchant when registering to receive export services. Generating export documentation for the shipping of the eligible items may include determining that the particular items ordered are eligible for export to the particular destination and or entity specified in the order such as when some items are eligible for export to some but not all destinations and or entities e.g. by regulation or by a policy of merchant or of the fulfillment service provider .

The number and type of export documents generated by the fulfillment services provider may be dependent on various factors such as the particular item or items ordered the merchant s supplying those items the destination of the order the value of the items and the purpose of the shipment e.g. whether the items are being shipped as a gift or for commercial use between two business entities . For example a form CN 22 also known as Postal Service form 2976 Sender s Declaration green label may be generated for orders including only items that are classified as other than defense articles or other types of restricted technology when the value of the items is below a given threshold and or weight. In another example a form CN 22 and a form CP 72 also known as Postal Service form 2976 A Customs Declaration and Dispatch Note may be generated for orders including non restricted items that exceed these value and or weight thresholds. Shipments of these orders may be covered by a General Export License and may be marked by the fulfillment services provider to indicate Export License Not Required in some embodiments. Forms CN 22 and CP 72 when complete may include when applicable an indication of whether the package contains a gift documents merchandise commercial samples or other categories of items a description of each item and its quantity the weight of each item the value of each item a Harmonized Tariff code HS number for each item the country of origin for the items a total weight and or value for the items the full name and address of the sender merchant the full name and address of the addressee the ultimate consignee a license number a certificate number or an invoice number if they accompany the shipment an indication of whether the shipment includes items subject to quarantine instructions for disposal in the event that the package cannot be delivered e.g. Treat as Abandoned a merchant signature and a date. Forms CN 22 and or CP 72 may be provided to the carrier in physical form or in electronic form for use when shipping the order. For example form 2976 may be attached to the outside of certain types of packages e.g. international flat rate envelopes and first class international mail when the value of the items is below a regulated threshold. For packages including items with a value over the regulated threshold the upper portion of form 2976 above a cut line on the form may be attached to the outside of the package and a form 2976 A including a detailed description of the items may be enclosed in the package.

In other cases a Shipper s Export Declaration form or SED also known as form 7252 V may be generated for individual items having a value greater than a regulated threshold value e.g. 2500 at the time of the filing of this application or for items classified in a category for which an export license is required e.g. defense articles nuclear technology chemical or biological weapons missile technology firearms but not certain categories of technical data . An SED form when complete may include when applicable a name and address of the USPPI a tax identifier of the USPPI the name and address of the ultimate consignee and any intermediate consignees or forwarding agents transportation information a point of origin for items a description of the items including a commodity code a quantity a weight a value and a product or vehicle identifier an export license number license exception symbol or authorization code the name title contact information and signature of an authorized officer or employee of the USPPI a date of exportation and a document date.

In some embodiments export documentation such as the documents described above may be generated i.e. created and printed by the fulfillment services provider according to the standards for format size and content specified by applicable regulations. In such embodiments documents printed by the fulfillment services provider may also include a unique print authorization number barcode as certified according to U.S. Postal Service and other governmental requirements. In other embodiments generating these documents may involve filling in various entries of documents received from the agencies regulating exports e.g. the Department of Commerce the U.S. Postal Service etc. . Export documentation automatically generated by an inventory management system of a fulfillment services provider may be output in a file in a word processing format as a Portable Document Format PDF file as an image file e.g. .jpg .tif .bmp or .gif file or in any other format suitable for electronic presentation and or printing in various embodiments.

The number and type of export documents generated by the fulfillment services provider may in some embodiments also be dependent on a business policy of the provider regarding the assumption of the role of USPPI for exporting an order. For example if a policy of the provider is that each merchant assumes the role of USPPI for the export of the items that it provides one set of export documents may be generated for each merchant providing one or more items for a given order. In such embodiments the order may be divided into multiple partial orders for shipping e.g. multiple partial shipments with each partial shipment including items from only one merchant and including its own corresponding set of export documentation.

In other embodiments a policy of the provider may be that the provider assumes the role of USPPI for some or all of the items included in the order. For example in one embodiment the provider may assume the role of USPPI for all of the items in an order that are provided by one or more trusted merchants e.g. merchants with which the provider has a history of successful business collaborations while the role of USPPI may be retained by one or more other merchants providing items for the order but with which the provider does not have such a track record. In such embodiments one set of export documentation may be generated for all the items for which the provider assumes the role of USPPI and an additional set of export documentation may be generated for each of the other merchants retaining the role of USPPI for their items. In another example a fulfillment services provider may assume the role of USPPI for a complete order and may ship any or all of the items included in that order from multiple merchants together along with a single set of export documentation indicating the provider as the USPPI for those shipments. The role of a merchant and or a fulfillment services provider as USPPI may in some embodiments be specified by the merchant and or the fulfillment services provider as part of the export services registration process and may be indicated in an export services agreement generated as a result of the registration process in some embodiments.

As previously noted in some embodiments the method may include determining if one or more of the items to be exported are subject to customs duties levied by the government of the receiving entity or destination. This is illustrated at block . If one or more of the items are subject to customs duties illustrated as the positive exit from the method may include calculating the duties owed and adding them to the total cost of ordering and or shipping the items as in . For example duties may be levied on certain types of items according to their value or weight and the method may in some embodiments include accessing this information from a table database or other data structure e.g. database in order to calculate what is owed. The method may also include remitting these customs duties to one or more appropriate taxing authorities e.g. a foreign customs office at the destination and or at the location of any intermediate consignees after collecting them during a checkout operation. If no customs duties are owed on any of the items to be exported the method may proceed as in .

As illustrated in the method may include the fulfillment services provider collecting shipping fees and any duties owed as in . For example the total cost of ordering and shipping the items to its international destination may be presented to the customer via a web interface such as on a checkout screen in some embodiments. The method may include prompting the customer to submit payment such as by entering credit card or purchase order information using a secure payment mechanism. As noted above collecting payment may include collecting and remitting customs duties to the appropriate taxing authority or authorities in some embodiments. For example an additional line item may be presented during checkout indicating an import fees deposit to be collected by the fulfillment services provider and this amount may be included in the total cost of ordering and shipping the items to the international destination.

In the example illustrated in once payment has been received for the order an international carrier may be selected and the export documentation that was generated as in may be provided to the carrier as in . For example a hard copy e.g. printed version of the required export documentation may be provided to the carrier so that it may be physically attached to the shipment and or an electronic manifest may be provided to the carrier for internal record keeping and tracking of the shipment for auditing of compliance to export regulations and or so that the carrier may print out a physical copy of the documentation to attach to the shipment in different embodiments.

In some embodiments selection of an international carrier may be dependent on factors such as the destination e.g. not all carriers may serve all possible international destinations the contents of the order e.g. the size or weight of the items or whether the order includes hazardous or fragile items the relative cost of shipping the order via two or more carriers the requested delivery date e.g. if expedited or priority international shipping was requested vs. standard international shipping with a wider delivery window or other factors. As previously noted an order may be broken up into multiple international shipments in some embodiments. In such embodiments one carrier may be selected for all of the items in the order e.g. for all of the partial shipments or a carrier may be selected for each partial shipment independent of selections made for other partial shipments of the order.

In some embodiments a transportation method selector e.g. a software module configured to determine an appropriate shipping method for a given order may access data indicating whether or not specified items are eligible to be shipped to the specified destination rather than such a determination being made earlier e.g. at the time the order is received . As noted above in different embodiments data suitable for making such a determination may be stored in a table database or other data structure e.g. database following a successful registration for export services and or may be accessed via one or more governmental agencies maintaining information about what items may or may not be exported and or destinations entities or persons that may or may not receive such exports. In some embodiments if a transportation method selector determines that the items are not eligible for export to the specified destination it may be configured to return an indication that the items are not eligible for export to the specified destination e.g. an error message may be returned to the customer in an input output field of an order request processing web page . If the transportation method selector determines that the items are eligible for export to the specified destinations the selector may in some embodiments be configured to display all valid shipping options e.g. standard expedited and or priority international shipping from one or more international carriers for the order and to allow the customer to choose from those options.

As illustrated in once one or more international carriers are selected the method may include shipping the order e.g. in a single shipment or in multiple partial shipments to the international destination specified in the order as in . As noted above in some embodiments customs duties may have been calculated and collected by the fulfillment services provider and may be remitted to the appropriate taxing authority before the shipment arrives thus facilitating the receiving operation at the destination.

One embodiment of a packing slip that may be included in a package fulfilled according to the method of is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment packing slip indicates that four items are included within a shipment to the identified customer. Items A and B are indicated as having been offered by Merchant A. Item C is indicated as having been offered by Merchant B. Item D is indicated as having been offered by Merchant C. Thus Merchants A C are indicated as the merchants of record for their corresponding items A D yet the identified customer may receive items A D as a single shipment. Other situations involving different numbers of items and merchants are possible and contemplated. It is noted that various embodiments packing slip may correspond to a customer invoice billing document bill of lading or other document formatted to summarize order information.

It is further noted that in some embodiments packing slip may include multiple pages or components formatted in a variety of ways. For example items corresponding to different merchants of record may be indicated on different pages or sections of packing slip . In some cases packing slip may also include information or data in addition to information identifying merchants of record. For example such information may include terms and conditions that may apply to a given item or a transaction involving given item with respect to the merchant of record warranty information customer service information e.g. contact information for complaints returns exchanges etc. marketing or promotional information e.g. offers of future discounts coupons etc. or other types of information. In some embodiments the information included by packing slip may be customized or formatted to suit requirements or customs pertinent to the location of a customer. For example different documentation requirements may apply to transactions involving customers located in different legal jurisdictions e.g. states countries etc. . Packing slip may be appropriately formatted to take such requirements or other factors into account.

Consolidation of items ordered from multiple merchants into fewer shipments may result in lower fulfillment costs as noted above. For example by virtue of volume fulfillment center may have preferential access to discounted shipping rates relative to those available to individual merchants . Thus by allowing its items to be combined for shipment with items from another merchant a given merchant may enjoy lower costs of shipping and packaging. Moreover customer goodwill may be increased through more a timely and or convenient shopping experience. For example a customer s order may be completed more quickly through fulfillment from fulfillment center than if each merchant involved in the order fulfilled its portion separately. Moreover in addition to the possibility of reduced shipping costs to the customer fewer shipments may reduce customer inconvenience in taking delivery of items for example if the customer or the customer s agent must be present at the time of delivery.

It is noted that while order consolidation as described above may be sufficient to reduce fulfillment costs such consolidation may not be necessary to do so. In some circumstances the cost of fulfilling a single item through fulfillment center may be lower than if a merchant were to perform its own fulfillment. For example fulfillment center may benefit from greater economies of scale better infrastructure for inventory and supply chain management or other advantages that result in reduced fulfillment costs relative to a merchant performing its own fulfillment on a smaller scale.

In some instances a merchant s registration of a given item for fulfillment services via registration interface may render that item eligible for various services or promotional opportunities available to items fulfilled by fulfillment center such as a reduced cost or expedited shipping promotion in which the customer may receive free standard shipping free expedited shipping reduced cost standard or expedited shipping etc. Other promotional opportunities may include discounts against a current order credits against future orders loyalty program points discounts or credits with partner merchants or other types of promotions. Such eligibility may apply even to instances in which a customer orders a single unit of the given item without combining the given item with other items in the order. For example in one embodiment the eligibility for a promotional shipping arrangement or other promotional opportunity of items fulfilled by fulfillment center may depend on the total price of a customer s order. In such an embodiment if the given item has a price sufficient to meet the eligibility criterion the customer may receive promotional consideration upon ordering a single unit of the given item alone or in combination with other items fulfilled by fulfillment center .

In some embodiments the cost savings resulting from a merchant s self service registration for fulfillment services as described above and or the cost savings resulting from efficiencies of fulfillment center may be used to fund promotional opportunities offered to customers such as opportunities to receive reduced cost or expedited shipping item discounts or other types of promotions. In other cases such cost savings may be offered to merchants as a discount or credit against charges for fulfillment services as profit sharing or cooperative marketing funding or in another suitable fashion. Such savings may also be retained by enterprise or distributed among enterprise merchants and or customers in any combination of the foregoing ways.

As noted above an order fulfillment services provider may in some embodiments provide export services to merchants registered for such services and may ship orders to international destinations. As noted above an order may in some embodiments be divided into multiple partial shipments according to the merchants providing each of the items in the order. For example each partial shipment may include only items from a single merchant which would be the USPPI for that partial shipment and on whose behalf export documentation would be generated for that partial shipment. illustrates a packing slip for such a partial shipment according to one embodiment.

In this example an order may be placed by a customer for delivery to an international destination that includes items A B C and D e.g. the same items included on packing slip of . In this example three separate partial shipments may be shipped to the destination each including items from a single vendor merchants A B and C . Packing slip illustrates one of three packing slips generated by the fulfillment services provider that corresponding to items A and B offered by merchant A. In this example packing slip indicates that these two items are to be shipping to a customer in the United Kingdom. The price of each item is included on the packing slip along with any applicable customs duty and shipping costs. In this example customs duties of 3.00 were calculated by the fulfillment services provider for these two items and were collected as an import fees deposit at the time the order was processed as described above.

Packing slip also includes the name and address of the customer and an indication that this is the first of three packing slips associated with an order. In other embodiments additional information may be included on a packing slip such as the name and address of the merchant and or fulfillment services provider an order number a date time of the order and or shipment an identifier of any intermediate consignees if applicable an export license number a company or product logo e.g. for an item the merchant or the fulfillment services provider or any other suitable information.

In this example two additional packing slips may be generated for this order one including item C offered by merchant B and one including item D offered by merchant C. Each of these additional packing slips may include similar information to that illustrated in and or described above e.g. the name and address of the customer a listing of the items the price of the items any import fees collected by the fulfillment services provider a shipping cost a total cost the name and address of the merchant or fulfillment services provider an export license number a logo etc. .

In the example illustrated in B the role of USPPI i.e. the exporter of record may be assumed by merchant A for the partial shipment represented by packing slip . In this example merchants B and C would each assume the role of USPPI for one of the additional partial shipments i.e. the partial shipment including items offered by the merchant . In other embodiments the fulfillment services provider may assume the role of USPPI for any or all shipments related to a given order. For example a fulfillment services provider may include all of the items A B C and D in a single shipment for which the fulfillment services provider assumes the role of USPPI and for which one set of export documentation and one packing slip may be generated. In another example the order illustrated in these examples may be divided into two or more partial shipments and the fulfillment services provider may assume the role of USPPI for one two or all of the partial shipments and may generate export documentation for each of the partial shipments indicating that the fulfillment services provider is the exporter of record for the shipments.

As discussed above in addition to generating packing slips for domestic and international orders the fulfillment services provider may generate export documentation for international orders such as forms CN 22 2976 CP 72 2976 A and or SED 7525 V in various embodiments. illustrates a shipping label that includes a form CN 22 and that is generated by the inventory management system of a fulfillment services provider as described herein. Note that is meant to illustrate the contents but not necessarily the precise format of form CN 22 which is specified by various government regulations. In this example shipping label includes several fields common to many types of shipping labels including the name and address of the seller e.g. Merchant ABC the name and address of the receiver i.e. the ultimate consignee and a transportation tracking barcode . In this example shipping label also includes a unique print authorization barcode and an export form CN 22 illustrated as . The unique print authorization barcode may be generated by a merchant that has received authorization to print their own forms CN 22 and or CP 72 according to applicable regulations.

In this example export form or CN 22 includes a detailed description of the contents of the shipment using Schedule B codes the United States 10 digit versions of the Harmonized Tariff system codes . In this example a Schedule B code of 4901.99.0070 is listed for one item which is the code for hardbound books. Export form also includes the value of each item listed in the contents. In this example a value of 10.00 is listed for the single book included in the shipment. In this example export form also includes freight and insurance costs the total weight and total value of the shipment including freight and insurance costs an indication that the shipment includes merchandise rather than a gift commercial sample or other category of purpose and a field to be signed by a merchant to certify that the shipment does not contain any dangerous articles. As noted above when a form CP 72 Postal Service form 2976 A will be included inside the shipping container only the upper portion of form CN 22 may be completed and attached to the outside of the shipping container. In such cases form CN 22 may be cut along cut line and the bottom portion may be discarded.

Note that in some embodiments all of the fields of export form including the merchant signature and remaining fields of shipping label may be filled in automatically by the inventory management system of the fulfillment services provider using information stored in the system provided by the merchant provided by the customer and or accessible on one or more government web sites as described herein.

While the methods illustrated in are described herein as being applied to providing export services to one or more merchants in some embodiments similar methods may be applied to the import of inventory items by the fulfillment services provider on behalf of one or more merchants . For example in some embodiments a merchant registering to receive order fulfillment services from the services provider may be prompted to indicate whether or not any inventory items must be imported from another country i.e. a country of origin in order to be conveyed to the provider for fulfillment of customer orders. If any items for which the merchant requests fulfillment services must be imported merchant may be prompted to indicate whether he or she desires the provider to provide import services for the items on behalf of merchant .

Providing import services on behalf of merchant may include many of actions described above regarding providing export services on behalf of merchant . For example providing import services may include one or more of determining if the items may be legally imported from their country of origin and or from an entity or person supplying them implementing a criminal background check credit check or identity authentication of an entity or person supplying the items generating any import documentation required according to applicable regulations calculating collecting and or remitting to the appropriate taxing authority any import duties applicable to the import of the items selecting an appropriate international carrier to ship the items to the provider initiating shipment of the items by the carrier and providing the required import documentation to the carrier and receiving the items to be stored along with other inventory items received from the merchant and or other merchants that have been registered to receive fulfillment services and or export services in various embodiments.

As described previously various aspects of the methods and techniques described above e.g. various aspects of registration interface and or management interface may be presented to merchants or customers through the use of web pages. Generally speaking a web page may include data content as well as metadata content that may be configured to control the presentation of the data content. For example a web page may include text still images video content navigable links or other types of data content as well as metadata or instructions that may control the placement appearance interactive behavior or other presentation aspects of the data content.

Often the data and metadata contents of a web page may be coded in a language such as a version of Hypertext Markup Language HTML or any other suitable language for web based content implementation. Web page contents may be conveyed from a content source such as a web host implemented by or on behalf of fulfillment center or enterprise to a client such as a merchant or a customer over a network e.g. the Internet or a private network using a suitable transport protocol such as a version of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP for example. The contents may then be interpreted or processed as indicated by the coding language and metadata content by a suitable client application such as a web browser. Some exemplary types of web browsers include but are not limited to Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox and Opera . In addition to presenting the web page to a client the web browser may also collect and process input data from the client. For example the browser may detect the selection or activation of navigable links menu items buttons or other types of input devices that may be presented to a client and may operate in response to such selection or activation by conveying data back to the content source or another entity or system navigating to a different content source or performing another suitable action.

One embodiment of a generic web page is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment a browser window is shown to include web page . Among the various types of content included in web page are text content image content input features and navigable links although in other embodiments web page may include more or fewer types of content in various combinations including types not specifically enumerated above. Although the various content types are illustrated as segregated features they may be interspersed or combined in any suitable fashion according to the capabilities of the browser and language used to implement web page . In one embodiment browser window may be generated and managed by a web browser such as those mentioned above.

In one embodiment the content and placement of various content features of web page may be generated for example by or on behalf of interface to implement a web page through which a merchant may invoke the self service fulfillment services registration process described above with respect to and or the export services registration process described above with respect to . For example text content image content and input features may be configured to present a fulfillment service provider s request for input data to a merchant and to provide a technique for allowing merchant to enter and convey such data in response such as through presenting a form with fields in which data may be inserted by the merchant . Such input data may in various embodiments include any or all of identifiers of items for which fulfillment and or export services are requested export process preferences e.g. merchant specified restrictions on items to be exported eligible international destinations and or recipients or the role of the provider or merchant as USPPI for an international order one or more signatures or logos or any other information usable by the fulfillment services provider in providing the services described herein.

In another embodiment web page may be configured to implement an e commerce channel suitable for presenting offers in commerce of items to customers as well as other data potentially of interest to customers . For example a merchant may operate its own e commerce hosting facilities generating its own content and conveying it to customers via web pages . Alternatively a merchant may arrange with another party such as enterprise to present such web pages on its behalf. In another embodiment enterprise or another party may implement an e commerce marketplace such as described above via one or more web pages . For example a number of offers from various merchants for a particular item or for multiple items may be displayed to a customer via web page .

It is contemplated that in some embodiments any of the methods or techniques described above may be implemented as program instructions and data capable of being stored or conveyed via a computer accessible medium. Such methods or techniques may include for example and without limitation the functions of inventory management system interface and or database as well as the methods illustrated in or any suitable variations or portions thereof. Such program instructions may also be executed to perform computational functions in support of the methods and techniques described above for example to instantiate operating system functionality application functionality and or any other suitable functions.

One exemplary embodiment of a computer system including computer accessible media is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface . In some embodiments it is contemplated that inventory management system may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems may be configured to host different portions or instances of inventory management system . For example in one embodiment some data sources or services e.g. purchasing management services may be implemented via instances of computer system that are distinct from those instances implementing other data sources or services e.g. order entry fulfillment services and or export services . It is noted that in some embodiments the functions of inventory management system as variously described hereinabove may be partitioned in any suitable fashion into a number of distinct modules procedures or other functional portions. The resulting portions of inventory management system may then be implemented as a unified or distributed system among one or several instances of computer system for example as instructions executable by one or more of processors .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be a general purpose or embedded processor implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by process . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Additionally it is contemplated that any of the methods or techniques described above and illustrated for example in may be implemented as a web service that may be performed on behalf of clients requesting such services. Generally speaking providing a function or service as a web service may encompass providing any of a variety of standardized APIs configured to allow different software programs to communicate e.g. to request services and respond to such requests in an autonomous web based and typically platform independent manner. For example an enterprise may choose to expose certain enterprise data e.g. catalog data inventory data customer data or other types of data and or certain enterprise functions e.g. fulfillment service request processing functions query functions electronic commerce functions generic data storage or computational functions etc. to external clients e.g. merchants or customers via a web services interface. Applications could then access the exposed data and or functions via the web services interface even though the accessing application may be configured to execute on an entirely different platform e.g. a different operating system or system architecture than the platform hosting the exposed data or functions. For example a merchant may perform self service registration of an item for fulfillment and or export services or may inform fulfillment center of domestic or international order to be fulfilled through web services calls exposed by interface .

In some embodiments provisioning a web service may encompass the use of particular protocols which may be executable e.g. as part of code to publish available web services to potential users to describe the interfaces of web services sufficiently to allow users to invoke web services properly to allow users to select and differentiate among web services for a particular transaction and to provide a format for exchanging web services data in a flexible and platform independent manner. Specifically in one embodiment a provider of a web service may register the service using a version of the Universal Discovery Description and Integration UDDI protocol which may function as a general directory through which potential resource users may locate web services of interest. The web service provider may also publish specific details regarding how a well formed web services request from a user should be formatted e.g. what specific parameters are required or allowed the data type or format to be used for a given parameter etc. . For example such interface details may be published e.g. within a UDDI directory entry using a version of the Web Services Description Language WSDL .

In many embodiments web services request and response data is exchanged between a client and the service provider through the use of messages or documents formatted as platform independent structured data such as a document formatted in compliance with a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML . For example in one embodiment a web services request to provide inventory health information for a given inventory item may be embodied in an XML document including fields identifying the item of interest the type of data requested e.g. inventory health data and possibly other fields in which each field is delimited by an XML tag describing the type of data the field represents. The response to such a request from the web service provider may include an XML document containing the requested data. In some embodiments web services related documents may be transmitted between applications making requests and targeted web services using a web based data transfer protocol such as a version of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example.

Different types of web services requests and responses may yield XML documents that bear little content in common which may complicate the handling and interpretation of such documents. For example in different versions of a free form XML document specifying a web services request the actual web service that is requested may appear at different places within different document versions which may require a recipient of the document to buffer or parse a good deal of document data before understanding what the document is for. Consequently in some embodiments the XML documents containing web services request response data may encapsulated within additional XML data used to define a messaging framework e.g. a generic format for exchanging documents or messages having arbitrary content. For example in one embodiment web services requests or responses may be XML documents formatted according to a version of the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP which in various versions may define distinct document sections such as an envelope e.g. which may include a specification of the document type the intended recipient web service etc. as well as a message body that may include arbitrary XML message data e.g. the particular details of the web services request . However in some embodiments web services may be implemented using different protocols and standards for publishing services and formatting and exchanging messages.

Additionally in some embodiments a web services system may be implemented without using document based techniques such as SOAP type protocols. For example as an alternative to a document based approach a web service may be implemented using a Representational State Transfer REST type architecture. Generally speaking in REST type architectures web services requests may be formed as commands conveyed via a transport protocol such as PUT or GET commands conveyed via a version of the HTTP protocol. Those parameters of the request that might be embedded within a document in a document based web services architecture may instead be included as command parameters in a REST type architecture. Other suitable configurations of web services architectures are possible and contemplated.

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

