---

title: GSH adducts and uses thereof
abstract: The invention relates to biomarkers of oxidative stress and their use. Specifically, the invention relates to thiadiazabicyclo-4-oxo-2(E)-nonenal-Glutathione adduct as a biomarker of oxidative stress and its diagnostic use.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08748121&OS=08748121&RS=08748121
owner: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
number: 08748121
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071023
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 853 714 filed Oct. 23 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was supported in part by Grant Numbers CA 91016 CA95586 HL70128 and ES013508 from the NIH. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The invention is directed to biomarkers of oxidative stress and their use. Specifically the invention relates to thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione adduct as a novel biomarker of oxidative stress and its diagnostic use.

Reactive oxygen species ROS1 are generated constantly in vivo from ground state triplet oxygen. This occurs by a variety of endogenous processes including normal mitochondrial aerobic respiration phagocytosis of bacteria or virus containing cells and peroxisomal mediated degradation of fatty acids. The ROS are normally detoxified by antioxidant defense systems such as superoxide dismutase catalase and GSH dependent peroxidases. Many other endogenous processes protect against ROS mediated damage including the sequestration of hydrogen peroxide generating enzymes and the chelation of free transition metal ions by transferrin ferritin and ceruloplasmin.

Oxidative stress occurs as a result of increased ROS production during inflammation radiation or the metabolism of hormones drugs and environmental toxins. This overwhelms endogenous protective mechanisms and increases ROS mediated lipid peroxidation which results in damage to cellular macromolecules. Lipid hydroperoxide mediated damage to cellular macromolecules can also arise from oxidative stress induced by cyclooxygenases COXs and lipoxygenases LOXs . ROS mediated peroxidation of free linoleic acid LA and arachidonic acid AA results in the formation of complex mixtures of hydroperoxyoctadecadienoic acids HPODEs and hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acids HPETEs that are reduced to racemic hydroxyoctadecadienoic acids HODEs and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids HETEs respectively. Lipid hydroperoxides are also formed by LOXs and COXs.

These enzymatic pathways result in a much simpler profile of HPODEs and HPETEs. LA is converted primarily to 13 S HPODE by human 15 LOX 1 and 15 LOX 2 and COX 1 and COX 2 mainly produce 9 R HPODE and 13 S HPODE from LA. The HPODEs are reduced to the corresponding 9 R and 13 S HODEs by intracellular peroxide reducing enzymes. With AA as substrate COX 1 and COX 2 both produce 15 S HPETE. The 15 S HPETE is reduced to 15 S HETE through the peroxidase activity of COXs or by GSH dependent peroxidases.

Lipid hydroperoxides undergo homolytic decomposition to the bifunctional electrophiles 4 oxo 2 E nonenal ONE and 4 hydroxy 2 E nonenal HNE . ONE and HNE both contain an R unsaturated aldehyde. However ONE is much more efficient than HNE at modifying DNA through the formation of heptanone etheno HF adducts. ONE and HNE also form adducts with amino acid residues such as lysine and histidine in proteins. 15 S HPETE undergoes vitamin C and transition metal ion mediated homolytic decomposition to ONE and HNE in a manner similar to that of 13 S HPODE. COX 2 derived 15 S HPETE is responsible for ONE mediated formation of H 2 deoxyguanosine dGuo adducts in the DNA of rat intestinal epithelial RIE cells that stably express COX 2 RIES . Furthermore H dGuo and H 2 deoxycytidine dCyd adducts were found in intestinal polyps from min mice a mouse model with increased intestinal COX 2 expression.

In one embodiment the invention provides an isolated Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG .

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for making thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG comprising the step of incubating glutathione with 4 oxo 2 E nonenal for a predetermined time wherein the incubation is with or without a glutathione S transferase enzyme.

In one embodiment the invention provides method of detecting a level of oxidative stress in a cell comprising the steps of quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the cell and comparing it to the level of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a predetermined standard.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of screening an agent capable of modulating lipid peroxidation comprising the steps of a quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a first and a second cell b contacting the second cell with a candidate agent for modulating lipid peroxidation wherein both the first and second cell are exposed to conditions promoting lipid peroxidation and c comparing the concentration of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the first and second cells whereby if the level is different between the cells the agent is a modulator of lipid peroxidation.

In one embodiment the invention provides a kit for detecting a level of oxidative stress in a cell tissue or a subject comprising reagents and instructions for the detection of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG .

In one embodiment provided herein are biomarkers of oxidative stress and their use. In another embodiment the invention provides thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione adduct a novel biomarker of oxidative stress and diagnostic use. In yet another embodiment provided herein are compositions comprising thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG adduct and its analogues.

In one embodiment provided herein is an isolated Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG . In another embodiment a TOG comprises the following formula 

In another embodiment a TOG comprises MH at m z 426. In another embodiment H NMR analysis of TOG reveals the presence of two molecular forms . In another embodiment the pyrrole region showed two pairs of peaks. In another embodiment the most intense pair of peaks appears at 6.93 and 5.81 ppm. In another embodiment a second pair of peaks from the minor molecular form of TOG appears at 6.55 and 5.97 ppm.

In one embodiment TOG Proton assignments were as follows 600 MHz CD3OD 6.93 1H CH 5.81 1H CH 4.67 1H CH 4.26 1H CH 3.79 dd J1 1 18 Hz J1 2 6 Hz 2H CH2 3.22 1H CH2 H 8a 2.99 1H CH2 H 8b 2.22 2.72 m 6H 3CH2 H 3 H 4 H 14 1.63 1.66 m 2H CH2 H 15 1.30 1.32 m 4H 2CH2 H 16 H 17 0.89 3H CH3 H 18 .

In another embodiment TOG is hydrated. In another embodiment TOG is transformed to a dehydration product comprising the following formula compound IV or adduct IV 

In another embodiment the spectrum of compound IV see e.g. has good resolution and contains all of the protons from TOG except the one from the pyrrole region.

In another embodiment the COSY spectrum and the assignments refer to the most abundant conformer see e.g. . In another embodiment the most deshielded signal at 7.89 ppm is assigned to the N 20 proton. In another embodiment the N 20 proton comprises a cross peak with the two H 21 protons. In another embodiment signals from the two geminal H 21 protons form an isolated AB system. In another embodiment an isolated AB system is firmed because of their diastereotopic relationship and the absence of coupling with other protons. In another embodiment the N 6 proton at 7.58 ppm cross peaks with a proton at 4.26 ppm. In another embodiment this highly deshielded proton was assigned as H 7 because it is flanked by a CdO and an NH group. In another embodiment H 7 comprises a COSY cross peak only with the H 8a proton at 3.47 ppm. In another embodiment the proton at C 8 H 8b is observed at 3.01 ppm.

In another embodiment H 2 has a similar chemical shift to H 7. In another embodiment H 2 is distinguished from H 4 when the spectrum is recorded in CD3 OD see e.g. . In another embodiment the signal at 0.88 ppm is assigned to the three H 18 protons. In another embodiment there is a cross peak with the protons on H 17. In another embodiment the H 16 protons cross peak with the H 15 protons 1.50 1.56 ppm . In another embodiment on the basis of their connectivity with the signal of H 15 the protons at H 14 are attributed to being present in the multiplet at 2.37 2.50 ppm. In another embodiment signals of one of the H 4 protons also appear in this multiplet. In another embodiment the signal at 2.11 ppm is assigned to the other H 4 proton. In another embodiment it has a COSY cross peak with H 3 proton in the 2.18 2.22 ppm multiplet. In another embodiment the assignments of the peaks corresponding to H 14 H 4 and H 3 are consistent with the HMQC spectrum. In another embodiment H 13 6.83 ppm and H 11 5.93 ppm show no cross peaks in the COSY spectrum. In another embodiment the invention provides that HMBC assignments for dehydrated TOG are provided in Table 1.

In another embodiment the invention provides a composition comprising Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG . In another embodiment a composition comprising TOG have a pH of equal or greater than 7. In another embodiment a composition comprising TOG have a pH from 7 to 7.5. In another embodiment a composition comprising TOG have a pH from 7 to 8. In another embodiment a composition comprising TOG have a pH from 8 to 9. In another embodiment a composition comprising TOG have a pH from 9 to 10. In another embodiment a composition comprising TOG have a pH from 10 to 12. In another embodiment a composition comprising TOG have a pH from 10 to 14.

In another embodiment the invention further provides a process for making Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG comprising the step of incubating glutathione with 4 oxo 2 E nonenal. In another embodiment the process further comprises the addition of glutathione S transferase.

In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 10 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 9 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 8 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 7 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 6 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 5 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 4 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 3 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 2 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 1.5 1. In another embodiment the molar ratio of the glutathione and the 4 oxo 2 E nonenal is 1 1. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment 0.5 5 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 1 10 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 5 15 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 15 30 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 30 45 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 45 60 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 60 80 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 80 100 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 100 120 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 120 140 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 140 180 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 180 250 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 250 300 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 300 400 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 400 500 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 500 750 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 750 1000 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 1000 1500 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. In another embodiment 1500 2000 units of glutathione S transferase are added to each 1 mM of 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in 200 L aqueous solution. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising a buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising a phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising a potassium phosphate buffer. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 2 20 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 2 40 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 5 15 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 15 25 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 25 40 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 30 60 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 45 60 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 50 80 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 65 80 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 70 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 80 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 100 150 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 120 140 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 150 200 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 160 190 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 200 300 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 200 240 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 230 270 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 260 300 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 300 350 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 350 400 mM potassium phosphate buffer. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous solution comprising 400 500 mM potassium phosphate buffer. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous acidic solution. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous acidic solution having acidity between pH 3 to pH 7. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous acidic solution having acidity between pH 3 to pH 7. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous acidic solution having acidity between pH 4 to pH 7. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous acidic solution having acidity between pH 5 to pH 7. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous acidic solution having acidity between pH 6 to pH 7. In another embodiment incubating comprises mixing glutathione and 4 oxo 2 E nonenal in an aqueous acidic solution having acidity between pH 4 to pH 6. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from an animal. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from a mammal. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from a rodent. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from guinea pig. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from rat. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from mouse. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from cow. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from human. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from pig. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from equine. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is derived from a monkey. In another embodiment the glutathione S transferase is an engineered glutathione S transferase. In another embodiment engineered glutathione S transferase is produced in bacteria. In another embodiment engineered glutathione S transferase is produced in yeast. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment the Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG is interchangeable with Thiadiazabicyclo ONE GSH and is simply referred to in another embodiment as TOG. In one embodiment TOG as described in the methods and compositions above is used as the analyte in the methods described herein for the diagnosis and prognosis of oxidative stress.

Accordingly and in one embodiment provided herein is a method of detecting a level of oxidative stress in a cell comprising the steps of quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the cell and comparing it to the level of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a predetermined standard.

In one embodiment overproduction of reactive oxygen species ROS including hydrogen peroxide HO superoxide anion O. nitric oxide NO. and singlet oxygen O creates an oxidative stress resulting in the amplification of the inflammatory response. Self propagating lipid peroxidation LPO against membrane lipids begins and endothelial dysfunction ensues. Endogenous free radical scavenging enzymes FRSEs such as superoxide dismutase SOD glutathione peroxidase GPX and catalase are involved in the disposal of O. and HO. First SOD catalyses the dismutation of O. to HOand molecular oxygen O resulting in selective O. scavenging. Then GPX and catalase independently decompose HOto HO. In another embodiment ROS is released from the active neutrophils in the inflammatory tissue attacking DNA and or membrane lipids and causing chemical damage including in one embodiment to healthy tissue. When free radicals are generated in excess or when FRSEs are defective HOis reduced into hydroxyl radical OH. which is one of the highly reactive ROS responsible in one embodiment for initiation of lipid peroxidation of cellular membranes. In another embodiment organic peroxide induced lipid peroxidation is implicated as one of the essential mechanisms of toxicity in the death of hippocampal neurons. In one embodiment an indicator of the oxidative stress in the cell is the level of lipid peroxidation and its marker Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG . In another embodiment the level of lipid peroxidation increases in inflammatory diseases such as meningitis in one embodiment. In one embodiment the methods described herein for the detection of oxidative stress may be used to detect the presence onset amelioration and agents capable of modulating inflammatory diseases.

Peroxides including hydrogen peroxide HO are one of the main reactive oxygen species ROS leading to oxidative stress. HOis continuously generated by several enzymes including superoxide dismutase glucose oxidase and monoamine oxidase and must be degraded to prevent oxidative damage. The cytotoxic effect of HOis thought to be caused by hydroxyl radicals generated from iron catalyzed reactions causing subsequent damage to DNA proteins and membrane lipids. In one embodiment the methods described herein are effective in the prognosis and diagnosis of the cytotoxic effects of HO.

In another embodiment the invention further provides a method of detecting oxidative stress in a cell comprising the steps of a quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a first cell undergoing oxidative stress b quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a second cell in steady state and c comparing the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a cell to the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the first cell the second cell or both the first cell and the second cell thereby detecting oxidative stress in a cell.

In one embodiment provided herein is a method of detecting a level of oxidative stress in a cell comprising the steps of quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the cell and comparing it to the level of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a predetermined standard whereby the standard is taken from cells under severe oxidative stress. In another embodiment the standard is taken from cells under moderate or mild oxidative stress each a discrete embodiment.

Severe oxidative stress refers in one embodiment to the exposure of the cell to high levels of HO resulting in overwhelming of the enzymatic disposal system of HOas described hereinabove and an increase in levels of MDA by more than 50 over normal levels. Moderate oxidative stress refers in another embodiment to conditions wherein MDA concentrations are between about 15 to about 35 higher than normoxidative conditions encountered by the cell or in another embodiment the tissue or in another embodiment the subject. Low oxidative stress refers in other embodiments to normal conditions.

Quantifying the levels of TOG and its analogs as described herein is done according to any method appropriate now known or later developed. In another embodiment that may include spectroscopic methods such as HPLC MS MS LC MS MRS and the like.

In one embodiment the TOG compound and its analogs are used as markers to detect modulators of lipid peroxidation in the methods described herein. Accordingly and in one embodiment provided herein is a method of screening an agent capable of modulating lipid peroxidation comprising the steps of a quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a first and a second cell b contacting the second cell with a candidate agent for modulating lipid peroxidation wherein both the first and second cell are exposed to conditions promoting lipid peroxidation and c comparing the concentration of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the first and second cells whereby if the level is different between the cells the agent is a modulator of lipid peroxidation.

In one embodiment the level of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the second cell in the method of screening agents as modulators of lipid peroxidation as described herein is lower than the first cell indicating the candidate agent is an antagonist of lipid peroxidation.

In another embodiment the level of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the second cell in the method of screening agents as modulators of lipid peroxidation as described herein is higher than the first cell indicating the candidate agent is an antagonist of lipid peroxidation.

In one embodiment provided herein is a modulator of lipid peroxidation identified using the methods of screening agents as modulators of lipid peroxidation described herein. In one embodiment ONE is a major bifunctional electrophile arising from endogenous intracellular homolytic lipid hydroperoxide decomposition. In another embodiment significant quantities of ONE derived ONO are also formed. The intracellular concentration of ONO depends in one embodiment upon the activity of intracellular reducing enzymes. In another embodiment AKR1B1 is involved by reducing the C 1 aldehyde of HNE to 4 hydroxy 2 E nonenol HNE . In another embodiment several AKRs are involved in the intracellular reduction of ONE to ONO. In one embodiment Carbonyl reductase plays a role in the metabolism of ONE to HNE although the ultimate product 4 hydroxynonanal is not a substrate for GSTs. HNE and ONO are isomeric. This means that in another embodiment ONO plays a role in modifying proteins and GSH that has been assumed to arise solely from endogenous HNE.

In another embodiment the invention further provides a method of screening a lipid peroxidation modifier comprising the steps of a quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a first cell undergoing oxidative stress b quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a second cell in steady state and c contacting a third cell with a lipid peroxidation modifier and d comparing the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a third cell to the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the first cell the second cell or both the first cell and the second cell thereby screening a lipid peroxidation modifier.

In another embodiment the second cell in steady state is not under oxidative stress. In another embodiment validation of steady state is known to one of skill in the art.

In another embodiment the cell to be examined for the detection of oxidative stress and the first and second cells are of the same origin. In another embodiment the cell to be examined for the detection of oxidative stress and the first and second cells are derived from one cell line. In another embodiment the cell to be examined for the detection of oxidative stress and the first and second cells are derived from one tissue. In another embodiment the cell to be examined for the detection of oxidative stress and the first and second cells are eukaryotic cells. In another embodiment the cell to be examined for the detection of oxidative stress and the first and second cells are cancerous cells.

In another embodiment the method of detecting oxidative stress or screening for agents capable of modulating lipid peroxidation further comprises the step of purifying TOG. In another embodiment the method of detecting oxidative stress further comprises the step of isolating TOG. In another embodiment the method of detecting oxidative stress further comprises the step of identifying TOG. In another embodiment the method of detecting oxidative stress further comprises the step of quantifying TOG.

In another embodiment detecting further comprises the step of identifying TOG. In another embodiment purifying comprises the use of liquid chromatography. In another embodiment isolating comprises the use of liquid chromatography. In another embodiment isolating comprises the use of HPLC. In another embodiment identifying comprises the use of NMR. In another embodiment identifying comprises the use of a spectrophotometer. In another embodiment identifying comprises the use of a mass spectrometry. In another embodiment quantifying comprises the use of liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LC MS .

In another embodiment the method comprises contacting the examined cell with at least one oxidative stress inducer. In another embodiment the method comprises contacting the examined cell with at least two oxidative stress inducers.

In another embodiment the method comprises contacting the examined cell with at least two different concentrations of an oxidative stress inducer. In another embodiment the method comprises contacting the examined cell with at least three different concentrations of an oxidative stress inducer. In another embodiment the method comprises contacting the examined cell with at least four different concentrations of an oxidative stress inducer.

In another embodiment the invention further provides a method of screening a lipid peroxidation modifier comprising the steps of a quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a first cell undergoing oxidative stress b quantifying the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a second cell in steady state and c contacting a third cell with a lipid peroxidation modifier and d comparing the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in a third cell to the amount of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the first cell the second cell or both the first cell and the second cell thereby screening a lipid peroxidation modifier.

In another embodiment the invention provides that the modifier is an inducer. In another embodiment the invention provides that the modifier is an inhibitor.

In one embodiment the methods described hereinabove are capable of being carried out using the kits described herein. Accordingly and in another embodiment provided herein is a kit for detecting a level of oxidative stress in a cell tissue or subject comprising reagents and instructions for the detection of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG . In one embodiment the instructions and reagents comprise a standard which is in yet another embodiment the level of Thiadiazabicyclo 4 oxo 2 E nonenal Glutathione TOG in the cell tissue or subject under conditions of high oxidative stress.

The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed however as limiting the broad scope of the invention.

All chemicals NADH ammonium acetate EDTA GSH equine and rat liver glutathione 5 transferase GST equine liver alcohol dehydrogenase ADH trifluoroacetic acid TFA and Tris hydrochloride were obtained from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . HPLC grade water and methanol were obtained from Fisher Scientific Co. Fair Lawn N.J. . Deuterium oxide 100 D 99.97 was obtained from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories Andover Mass. . The Amicon Ultra 4 centrifugal filter was obtained from Millipore Billerica Mass. . Gases were supplied by Airgas East Inc. Allen town PA . EA.hy 926 endothelial cells were a generous gift from Dr. Cora Edgell University of North Carolina . Dulbeeeo s minimal essential medium DMEM was from Gibco Grand Island N.Y. and fetal bovine serum FBS was from U.S. Biotechnologies Parker Ford Pa. . HNE was obtained from Cayman Chemical Co. Ann Arbor Mich. ONE was synthesized and ONO was prepared by reduction of ONE with equine ADH and NADH. 2 H ONE 3 H ONE 2 3 H ONE and 9 H ONE were also synthesized.

EA.hy 926 cells were incubated in DMEM 10 mL containing 10 FBS 100 unit mL of penicillin and 100 ng mL of streptomycin at 37 C. in an atmosphere of 5 CO.

LC systems 1 and 5 employed a 250 4.6 mm i.d. 5 fim Phenomenex Jupiter C18 column Phenomenex Torrance Calif. . Systems 2 and 3 employed a 250 10.0 mm i.d. 5 nm Phenomenex Jupiter C18 column. Systems 4 and 6 employed a 150 2.0 mm i.d. 5 nm Phenomenex Jupiter C18 column. For system 1 solvent A was 5 mM ammonium acetate in water and solvent B was 5 mM ammonium acetate in methanol. For systems 2 4 and 5 solvent A was 5 mM ammonium acetate in water 0.01 TFA v v and solvent B was 5 mM ammonium acetate in methanol 0.01 TFA v v . For system 3 solvent A was water with 0.01 TFA v v and 0.1 formic acid v v and solvent B was acetonitrile. For system 6 solvent A was water with 0.1 TFA v v and solvent B was methanol with 0.1 TFA v v . For system 1 a linear gradient was run from 3 B at 0 min 73 B at 30 min and 80 B at 31 min. For system 2 a linear gradient was run from 20 B at 0 min to 80 B at 27 min. System 3 was isocratic with 70 A. For systems 4 and 5 a linear gradient was run from 3 B at 0 min to 80 B at 33 min. For system 6 a linear gradient was run from 2 B at 0 min 11 B at 2 min 11 B at 20 min 25 B at 21 min 30 B at 25 min 40 B at 27 min 60 B at 35 min and 80 B at 36 min. For systems 1 and 5 the flow rate was 1.0 mL min with a split flow between the mass spectrometer and UV detector set at 224 nm. The flow rates were 3.0 mL min for systems 2 and 3 and 0.2 mL min for systems 4 and 6. LC MS was conducted on a Finnigan LCQ ion trap mass spectrometer Thermo Fisher San Jose Calif. equipped with an electrospray ionization ESI source in positive ion mode. The operating conditions were as follows heated capillary 250 C. and spray voltage 5 kV. Nitrogen was used as the sheath 60 psi and auxiliary 5 units gas. Capillary voltage was 12.5 V and the tube lens offset was 15 V. LC multiple reaction monitoring MRM MS was conducted using a Finnigan TSQ Quantum Ultra AM mass spectrometer Thermo Fisher equipped with an ESI source in the positive mode. Operating conditions were as follows heated capillary temperature was 250 C. spray voltage was 5 kV nitrogen was used as the sheath gas at 80 psi and the auxiliary gas was maintained at 10 arbitrary units . Tandem mass spectrometry MS MS and collision induced dissociation CID was performed using argon at 1.5 mTorr. LC multistep MS MS MSn was performed using an LCQ ion trap mass spectrometer using helium as the collision gas with a collision energy of 1 V.

Accurate mass measurements were performed by taking voltage scans and using ESI in the positive mode on a Micromass Waters AutoSpec M series sector instrument. The samples were prepared in 50 methanol and 50 acetonitrile and introduced into the mass spectrometer by infusion. The reference used was PEG mono methyl ether PEGMME 350 . Mass measurements for the analytes were performed by bracketing between two known masses from the PEGMME 350.

Spectra were recorded at 25 C. 298 K on a Varian Unity 500 instrument equipped with a 5 mm 500 SW PFG probe from Varian operating at 499.837 MHz or on a Bruker Avance II 600 instrument equipped with a 5 mm triple resonance TCI z gradient cryoprobe CPTCI . Samples were dissolved in DO containing 0.05 wt TSP or in CDOD containing 0.03 wt TMS. Data processing was performed on the spectrometer. Chemical shifts are reported in the scale ppm by assigning the internal standard peak TSP or TMS to 0.0 ppm. Acquisition conditions were as follows spectral width of 6000 Hz 30 pulse flip angle 32 000 data points and 16 transients. The delay between successive pulses was 1 s for the 2D COSY. Prior to Fourier transformation the f1 and f2 data points were processed with a squared shifted sine bell weighting function for f1 sb 0.085 and sbs 0.85 for G sb1 0.043 and sbs1 0.043 . The H C 2D HMQC and HMBC spectra were determined using gradient pulses for coherence selection. The H C 2D HMQC spectrum was determined with decoupling during acquisition. Delays corresponding to one bond H C coupling ca. 145 Hz for the low pass filter and two to three bond H C long range coupling 8.3 Hz were used for the HMBC.

GSH 1 or 4 mM was incubated with 4 ONE 1 mM or 100 M in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer 200 L containing 1 mM EDTA pH 6.5 . Reactions were also conducted in the presence of equine or rat GST 10 or 100 units . Similar reactions were performed with 4 mM GSH and 2 2 Hi ONE 3 2H ONE or 2 3 H ONE 1 mM . Reaction mixtures were incubated at 37 C. for 1 h and then filtered through an Amicon Ultra 4 5 000 filter and a 20 L aliquot was analyzed by LC MS using gradient system 1.

Adduct Ia was purified from the reaction between GSH and 3 H ONE in the presence of equine GST using gradient system 1. A portion of adduct Ia was then reacted with 3 2H ONE at 37 C. overnight. The reaction mixture 20 L was analyzed by LC MS using gradient system 1.

ONE GSH adduct IIb was purified from the reaction between GSH and 3 2H ONE in the presence of equine GST using gradient system 1. A portion of ONE GSH adduct IIb was then incubated with 1 TFA at 37 C. for 24 h. The reaction mixture 20 L was analyzed by LC MS using gradient system 1.

ONE 100 mM in 10 uL of ethanol 1 mM final concentration was added to GSH 1 mL 1 mM in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer with 1 mM EDTA pH 6.5 and incubated in the presence of equine GST 80 units mL at 37 C. overnight. The reaction was conducted in 30 separate 1 mL vials and the reaction mixtures were filtered through Amicon Ultra 4 5 000 Molecular Weight cutoff filters at the completion of the reaction. Adduct IIb was isolated by preparative HPLC using gradient system 2. A secondary purification was conducted using gradient system 3 to give pure ONE GSH adduct IIb 4.2 mg 15 based on ONE .

ONE 100 mM in 10 L of ethanol 1 mM final concentration was added to GSH 1 mL 4 mM in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer with 1 mM EDTA pH 6.5 and incubated overnight at 37 C. Reactions were conducted in 16 separate vials. The adducts were isolated by preparative HPLC using gradient system 2. The reaction products were fraction collected combined and concentrated under nitrogen to give pure adduct Ia 8.4 mg 34 based on ONE and adduct III 6.2 mg 24 based on ONE .

Adduct IIb 2.1 mg was dissolved in water containing 1 TFA and evaporated to dryness. Essentially quantitative dehydration occurred.

The GSH adducts were enzymatically prepared from HNE and ONO as described above for the ONE GSH adduct and purified using gradient system 4 to give the adducts.

EA.hy 926 cells were incubated until they reached 70 80 confluence approximately 2 10cells . DMEM was removed and replaced with FBS free DMEM prior to treatment with varying concentrations of ONE dissolved in ethanol. The final concentration of ethanol in the culture medium was 

EA.hy 926 cells were incubated until they reached 70 80 confluence approximately 2 10cells . DMEM was removed and replaced with FBS free DMEM prior to treatment with t BuOOH 10 M and Fe 500 M ferrous sulfate . Cells were collected after 30 min and intracellular GSH adduct concentrations were quantified by stable isotope dilution LC MRM MS as described above. Channels corresponding to the specific MRM transitions of the ONE GSH adduct IIb and its trideuterated internal standard were monitored as described above. MRM transitions for HNE and ONO GSH adducts m z 464 MH m z 308 MH CHO were also monitored. Quantification of diastereomeric HNE GSH adducts was conducted by determining the ratio of the area of the HNE GSH adducts signal to the area of H ONE GSH adduct IIb. Intracellular concentrations of HNE GSH adducts were determined with reference to a standard curve constructed in lysis buffer using authentic standards of unlabeled HNE GSH adducts as described above for the ONE GSH adduct IIb.

TOG and ONE were monitored by UV 224 nm from the reaction between GSH 1 mM and ONE 1 mM in the presence of GST 10 or 100 units for 24 h. When 10 units of GST were used 58 of ONE was consumed by 4 h. The formation of TOG reached a maximum after 24 h of incubation where 6 ONE was still left in the reaction mixture. The reaction was 6 times faster with 100 units of GST in which 52 of ONE was consumed by 40 min. The maximal formation of TOG was observed after 4 h of incubation when there was 93 consumption of ONE. After 24 h of incubation ONE was not detectables.

The reaction of a 4 fold excess of GSH with ONE in the presence of equine GST 100 units resulted in the formation of a monomeric ONE GSH adduct as the major product adduct IIb . Essentially identical results were obtained with rat GST under all of the conditions that were used. Adduct IIb had an MH at m z 426 and a retention time of 17.5 min . It arose from a 1 1 reaction of ONE with GSH followed by the loss of two molecules of water. An isomer of the ONE GSH adduct adduct Ia was observed as a minor product at a retention time of 15.9 min. Another minor product was observed adduct Ia with a retention time of 13.4 min and MH at m z 733 . Adduct Ia arose by the reaction of one molecule of ONE with two molecules of GSH and the loss of two molecules of water. An isomer of adduct Ia was observed adduct Ib at a retention time of 15.2 min A . If the GST was reduced to 10 units adduct Ia increased and new adduct III was observed with an MH at m z 851 . When the ratio of GSH to ONE was increased to 40 1 adduct IIb was by far the major product with 100 units of equine GST . If the GST was reduced to 10 units there was increased formation of adduct Ia . With equimolar concentrations of ONE and GSH adduct IIb was the major product when the reaction was conducted in the presence of 100 units of GST A . However when the GST was reduced to 10 units adduct III was also observed .

The chemical reaction of a 4 fold excess of GSH with ONE resulted in the formation of adduct Ia with a retention time of 13.3 min and an MH at m z 733 . An isomer of this adduct adduct Ib was observed as a minor product at a retention time of 15.1 min . The LC UV chromatogram indicated that adduct Ia was the major product lower panel . Monomeric adduct IIb was also observed with an MH at m z 426 and a retention time of 17.5 min together with an isomer adduct Ia at a retention time of 15.9 min . Adduct III with an MH at m z 851 which corresponded to the reaction of two molecules of ONE with two molecules of GSH and the loss of four molecules of water appeared at a retention time of 18.8 min. The level of this adduct decreased as more enzyme was used and it was below the limit of detection by UV with 100 units of GST . When the ratio of GSH to ONE was increased to 40 1 adduct Ia predominated over adduct IIb . With equimolar amounts of ONE and GSH adduct IIb and adduct III were formed in similar amounts .

The reaction of 1 mM 3 H ONE with a 4 fold excess of GSH in the presence of equine GST 100 units resulted in an LC MS product profile similar to that observed with non deuterated ONE . Adduct IIb contained 48 of one deuterium and its isomer adduct IIa contained 34 of one deuterium . Adduct Ia contained no deuterium whereas its isomer adduct Ib contained 38 of one deuterium . Adduct III contained no deuterium . No deuterium incorporation into adduct IIb was observed in the ONE GSH adduct when reactions were performed with 2 2Hi ONE. Conversely 48 of one deuterium was found in adduct IIb when reactions were performed with 2 3 H ONE.

The reaction of 1 mM 3 2H ONE with a 4 fold excess of GSH resulted in an LC MS product profile similar to that observed with non deuterated ONE . The deuterium incorporation into adducts Ia Ib Ia IIb and III were identical to those observed for the enzymatic reaction .

LC MSanalysis revealed product ions at m z 408 MH HO and m z 280 MH CONHCHCOH CONH . MSon m z 280 gave rise to product ions at m z 252 MH CONHCHCOH CONH CHCH and m z 224 MH CONHCHCOH CONH CH . Finally MSon m z 252 gave rise to product ions at m z 224 MH CONHCHCOH CONH CHCH CH m z 219 MH CONHCHCOH CONH CHCHSH and m z 206 MH CONHCHCOH CONH CHCH HCOH . The initial loss of water on MSanalysis is typical of cyclic peptides. HR ESI MS calculated for CHNOS 426.1699 MH . found 426.1717 MH . Therefore the molecular formula of adduct IIb was CHNOS.

The H NMR spectrum of adduct Ia exhibited a pair of broad singlets in the aromatic region with chemical shifts of 6.86 and 6.26 ppm which were much closer than the pyrrole protons H 11 and H 13 observed in adduct IIb. Proton assignments for adduct Ia were as follows 600 MHz DO 6.86 s 1H CH 6.26 s 1H CH 4.53 m 1H 4.31 dd J1 1 12 Hz J 6 Hz 1H 3.78 m 4H 2 CH 3.15 dd J 18 Hz J1 2 6 Hz 1H 2.83 2.90 m 3H 2.65 2.70 m 1H 2.49 2.58 m 5H 2.13 2.36 m 6H 1.27 1.41 m 6H 0.85 t 3H CH . The NMR and LC MS data were consistent with a structure of 2 amino 4 2 1 1 carboxy 3 1 carboxymethyl carbamoyl 2 mercapto ethylcarbamoyl propyl 2 pentyl 1H pyrrol 3 ylsulfanyl 1 carboxymethyl carbamoyl ethylcarbamoyl butyric acid Scheme 2 . HR ESI MS calculated for CHNOS 733.2458 MH . found 733.2521 MH .

The H NMR spectrum of adduct III exhibited two peaks in the aromatic region with chemical shifts of 6.77 and 6.18 ppm. Proton assignments for adduct III were as follows 500 MHz DO 6.77 d J 2.5 Hz 2H CH H 12 H 24 6.18 d J 2.5 Hz 2H CH H 11 H 23 4.59 t J 7.5 Hz 2H CH H 7 H 19 4.50 m 2H CH H 2 H 14 3.75 dd J 16 Hz J 14.5 Hz 2H H 2 H 14 2.93 3.04 m 4H CH H 8 H 20 2.67 2.87 m 2H CH H 27a H 40a 2.50 2.60 m 2H CH H 3 a H 15a 2.37 2.45 m 2H CH H 27b H 40b 2.14 2.22 m 4H CH H 3b H 15b H 4a H 16a 1.89 1.93 m 2H CH. H 4b H 16b 1.31 1.43 m 12H 6CH H 28 H 29 H 30 H 41 H 42 H 43 0.87 0.92 m 6H 2CH H 31 H 44 . NMR and LC MS data were consistent with a structure of 7 19 bis carboxymethyl carbamoyl 5 17 dioxo 25 26 dipentyl 9 21 dithia 1 6 13 18 tetraaza tricyclo 20.2.1.110.13 hexacosa 10 26 11 22 25 23 tetraene 2 14 dicarboxylic acid Scheme 2 . HR ESI MS calculated for CHNOS 851.3241 MH . found 873.3146 MNa .

Adduct Ia retention time 13.4 min was purified from the reaction between GSH and 3 H ONE in the presence of GST using gradient system 1. Adduct Ia from this reaction contained no deuterium as shown in its mass spectrum . A portion of adduct Ia was then reacted with 3 H ONE at 37 C. for overnight. LC MS analysis of the reaction mixture using system 1 revealed the exclusive formation of adduct III with an MH at m z 851 and a retention time of 18.8 min. No deuterium incorporation into adduct III was observed. This showed that adduct III arose from the reaction of adduct Ia with ONE.

When adduct IIb was incubated with 1 TFA quantitative conversion to a less polar product which eluted at 22.1 min. was observed using LC system 1. This product had an intense MH at m z 408 showing that adduct IIb had undergone dehydration.

The H NMR spectrum of adduct IV exhibited a singlet in the aromatic region typical of a tetra substituted pyrrole . Proton assignments were as follows 500 MHz DO 6.56 s 1H CH H 11 5.32 d J 5.5 Hz 1H CH H 7 5.2 s 1H CH H 2 4.03 d J 18 Hz 1H CH H 21 4.00 d J 18 Hz 1H CH H 19 3.74 dd J 15 Hz J 5.5 Hz 1H CH H 8 3.2 d J 15 Hz 1H CH H 8 3.00 3.06 m 2H CH H 4 2.40 2.69 m 4H 2CH H 3 H 14 1.63 1.66 m 2H CH H 15 1.30 1.32 m 4H 2CH H 16 H 17 0.86 t J 5 Hz 3H CH3 H 18 . These assignments were consistent with the HMQC spectrum Figure S Supporting Information . HR ESI MS calculated for CHNOS 408.1593 MH . found 408.1565 MH . There are four distinct saturated domains in the spectrum of adduct IV H 2 7 H 3 4 8 H 21 and H 14 15 16 17 18 and an aromatic domain i.e. the pyrrole ring each of which translates in the COSY spectrum into a connectivity pattern generated by cross peaks that correspond to Jgeminal and vicinal couplings. The signal at 0.86 ppm was assigned to a CH3 t based on its chemical shift it was the most upfield corresponding to a saturated carbon chain terminus. It had a cross peak with the protons on H 17 or H 16. Unfortunately the H 17 and H 16 signals overlapped 1.30 1.32 ppm and were coupled to each other so that they could not be readily distinguished. They in turn had a cross peak with the H 15 protons 1.63 1.66 ppm . On the basis of their connectivity with the signal of H 15 the protons at H 14 were attributed to being present in the multiplet at 2.50 2.70 ppm. The signals of one of the H 3 protons was also found in this last multiplet. The signal at 2.42 ppm was assigned to the other H 3 proton on the basis of the chemical shift also from its C in the HMQC spectrum . It had COSY cross peaks with the C 3 proton in the 2.50 2.70 ppm multiplet and also with the H 4 protons at 3.00 3.06 ppm. The relatively vide infra medium to large diatereotopicities for the geminal protons on C 3 and C 4 H 3a H 3b 0.08 0.28 ppm and H 4a H 4b 0.30 0.50 ppm were in agreement with inclusion of these spin systems in a rigid fragment i.e. the macrocycle rather than in a side chain.

The proton at H 2 was assigned on the basis of chemical shift H 2 is flanked by a COOH and nitrogen and hence is expected to be more deshielded as observed for the H 7 proton. The proton at H 7 5.32 ppm had a COSY cross peak only with one H 8 proton at 3.74 ppm. The vicinal coupling constant was 5.5 Hz. This is indicative of the fact that the other proton at H 8 3.2 ppm and the proton at H 7 are part of a dihedral H C 8 C 7 H that approaches 90 . The two signals from H 8 3.2 and 3.74 ppm also showed a cross peak in the COSY spectrum. The large value of the coupling constant between the two H 8 protons 15 Hz fell in the known range for geminal couplings which confirmed that the assignment was correct. The measured diastereotopicity of the two geminal H 8 protons was large H 8a H 8b 0.54 ppm consistent with one of the protons adopting a equatorial orientation and the other a axial proton relative to the macrocycle. In the HMCQ spectrum the H 2 proton showed cross peaks with C 3 and C 4 and the H 7 proton showed a cross peak with C 8.

Signals of the two H 21 geminal protons form an isolated AB system J 18 Hz because of the diastereotopicity relationship between them and the absence of coupling with other protons. In addition the measured diastereotopicity of the geminal H 21 protons was small H 21 H 21 0.03 ppm which indicated that this carbon atom was part of a side chain rather than a ring. The proton from the pyrrole ring H 11 6.56 ppm showed no cross peaks in the COSY spectrum. There was a cross peak between H 11 and C 5 in the HMBC spectrum which arose from the W arrangement of H11 C11 C10 C13 C5 due to the planar structure of the pyrrole Table 1 . The coupling of H 4 with C 13 could only be explained if C 5 and C 13 were connected. In a TOG like structure both C 5 and C 19 should have had chemical shifts of approximately 170 ppm characteristic for an amidic carbon . However the chemical shift of C 5 was lower 162 ppm than that of C 19 176 pm . The C 5 carbon was differentiated from the C 1 9 carbon because of the cross peaks that were observed among C 5 H 3 H 4 and H 7. Finally on the basis of the NMR and LC MS data adduct IV dehydrated TOG was assigned as 8 1 carboxym ethyl carbamoyl ethylimino 1 methylsulfanyl 3 pentyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroindolizine 5 carboxylic acid. This product exhibited a UV absorbance 335 nm consistent with extended conjugation.

Intracellular TOG could be quantified by LC MRM MS when the EA.hy 926 endothelial cells were treated with ONE at concentrations of 5 iM. or greater . There was a dose dependent increase up to a maximum of 46.1 mol 2 10cells 46.1 M after the addition of 20 L ONE. TOG was detected in the extracellular milieu when the cells were treated with concentrations of ONE at 1 M or greater . There was also a dose dependent increase in extracellular TOG reaching a maximum concentration of 1.5 nmol 2 10cells 0.15 M after treatment with 20 M ONE.

Incubation of HNE with GSH in the presence of equine GST resulted in the formation of a complex mixture of HNE GSH adducts. Four of the potential eight diastereomers were separated using LC system 6. HNE GSH adducts H1 H2 and H4 were formed in similar concentrations whereas adduct H3 was present in much lower concentrations. Similar results were obtained with rat GST. In contrast the four diastereomers were formed in similar amounts when EA.hy 926 cells were treated with HNE.

The Incubation of ONO with GSH in the presence of equine GST also resulted in the formation of a mixture of ONO GSH adducts. Two of the potential four diastereomers were separated using LC system 6. ONO GSH adduct O2 was formed in approximately 3 fold excess over GSH adduct O1. Similar results were obtained with rat GST. However only GSH adduct O2 was observed when EA.hy 926 cells were treated with ONE.

The total endothelial cell volume in one culture dish was 10.5 10mL on the basis of the average cell diameter of 10 m on and the presence of 2 10cells. Intracellular concentrations of TOG as determined by stable isotope dilution LC MRM MS were 8.6 mol 2 10cells or 8.6 M upper panel after treatment with 10 M t BuOOH 500 M Fe. Intracellular concentrations of the HNE GSH adducts in the same cells were approximately 0.5 mol 2 10cells 0.5 M as determined from the addition of the signals from adducts H1 H3 and H4 lower panel . The isomeric ONO GSH adduct diastereomers O2 which eluted later than the HNE GSH adducts were also detected lower panel .

The GST mediated reaction of ONE with GSH resulted in the rapid formation of a monomeric GSH adduct with an MH at m z 426 and a retention time on LC MS analysis identical to that of the intracellular GSH adduct observed in ONE treated endothelial cells 25 . This was the major product when GSH concentrations were in the physiological range 4 mM 33 and ONE was present at 100 M which is the high end of intracellular concentrations predicted for bifunctional electrophiles such as HNE 34 . Various additional adducts including dimers between ONE and GSH were observed at higher ONE concentrations and with reduced amounts or absence of GSTs . The major monomeric ONE GSH adduct exhibited an MH at m z 426.1717 when analyzed by HR ESI MS which was consistent with a molecular formula of C19H27N3O6S arising from double dehydration after the addition of GSH to ONE. H NMR analysis showed the presence of two downfield peaks coupling constants 

chemical shifts of 6.93 ppm H 13 and 5.81 ppm H 11 from a trisubstituted pyrrole moiety 35 containing two nonadjacent heteroaromatic protons . Structural confirmation was obtained by 2D COSY HMQC and HMBC which revealed that adduct IIb was TOG Scheme 1 .

There were some striking differences between the GST mediated reactions and the nonenzymatic reactions of ONE with GSH. TOG was the major product in the GST mediated reaction whereas adduct Ia was the major product in the nonenzymatic reaction . During TOG formation 52 of one deuterium was lost from C 3 and Scheme 1 . In contrast all of the deuterium from C 3 was lost in the generation of adduct Ia and Scheme 2 . These data are consistent with TOG formation resulting from the initial reversible generation of a Schiff base intermediate followed by intramolecular cyclization of the GSH moiety to give adduct V Scheme 1 .

A second intramolecular cyclization through the Schiff base nitrogen gives rise to adduct VI which can lose either water or DOH to give TOG Scheme 1 . This would result in the observed loss of approximately 50 of one deuterium . The formation of adduct Ia as the major product in the nonenzymatic pathways is thought to arise from the initial Michael addition of GSH to the a unsaturated aldehyde of TOG. This is followed by the addition of a second molecule of GSH to form a Schiff base intermediate which cyclizes to an adduct that dehydrates solely through the observed loss of DOH . GSTs appear to bind the ONE GSH Schiff base intermediate and catalyze its conversion to TOG thereby shifting the equilibrium that is in competition with the Michael addition of GSH Scheme 1 . There does not appear to be any precedent for this unusual activity of the GSTs.

When ONE was labeled at C 2 and C 3 with deuterium 48 of one deuterium was found in TOG as predicted from its proposed mechanism of formation Scheme 1 . Conversely when only C 2 was labeled with deuterium none of the deuterium was found in TOG. This is the opposite of what was found in the nonenzymatic formation of the pyrrole adduct derived from ONE and histone H4 in which the pyrrole protons were adjacent to each other consistent with the proposed Schiff base intermediate in the formation of TOG Scheme 1 . Further evidence for the structural assignment of TOG came from NMR studies. If GST dependent Michael addition had occurred at C 3 of the a unsaturated aldehyde the two pyrrole protons would have been adjacent to each other with a NMR coupling constant of approximately 2.7 Hz. Furthermore the pyrrole protons were separated by 1.1 ppm compared with 0.5 ppm in the pyrrole adduct derived from ONE with histone in which the pyrrole protons were adjacent to each other. This assignment is also consistent with the findings from the Sayre group which showed that when pyrrole protons are adjacent their chemical shifts are much closer to each other compared to the chemical shifts of pyrrole protons that are not adjacent.

TOG was found to be quite unstable under acidic conditions. Care has to be taken when isolating TOG by preparative HPLC to neutralize the solvents and ensure that there is no acid generated when the solvents are concentrated. The structure of dehydrated TOG was characterized by NMR as an unusual tetrahydroindolizine derivative adduct IV . The formation of adduct IV also occurs on prolonged storage of TOG in solution at 70 C. Therefore care has to be taken to ensure that no decomposition has occurred when using TOG as a standard compound in bioanalytical studies.

In the chemical reaction of ONE with GSH several minor isomers of TOG were observed . Adduct Ha the most abundant of the minor TOG isomers contained 34 of one deuterium when prepared from 3 2Hi ONE . This suggested that a significant amount of adduct Ha arose from the addition of GSH at C 3. Adduct Ha was close to the limit of detection in the GST mediated reaction of GSH with ONE and therefore it is unlikely to be found as an endogenous adduct of ONE metabolism. Therefore full structural characterization of adduct Ha was not performed.

LC MSn analysis of TOG revealed a major product ion at m z 280 which permitted a highly sensitive and specific stable isotope dilution LC MRM MS assay for TOG to be developed on the basis of the transition m z 426 m z 280. The intracellular concentration of TOG after the addition of 20 

Endogenous production of ONE was analyzed in EA.hy 926 endothelial cells after treatment with t BuOOH Fe11 to stimulate endogenous ROS production and lipid peroxidation. Intracellular concentrations of TOG as determined by stable isotope dilution LC MRM MS were found to be 8.6 M upper panel . Intracellular HNE GSH adducts were also formed when endothelial cells were incubated with HNE 25 . GST mediated addition of GSH to HNE results in the formation of four pairs of diastereomers because of the new chiral center at C 3 23 . The adducts were analyzed using the MRM transition m z 464 MH m z 308 MH C9H16O2 25 . Intracellular concentrations of the HNE GSH adducts in the peroxide treated endothelial cells were somewhat lower than that of TOG 0.5 

The GSH adduct of ONE TOG provides a potential biomarker of both nonenzymatic and enzymatically induced lipid hydroperoxide mediated intracellular oxidative stress similar to that suggested for the HNE GSH adducts 28 29 . We recently discovered the ONE like bifunctional electrophiles dioxodode cenoic acid DODE 41 and dioxooctenoic acid DOOE 42 which contain the carboxylate terminus of LA and AA derived lipid hydroperoxides respectively. Both DODE 41 and DOOE data not shown also form TOG like GSH adducts. Once the structures of these adducts have been fully characterized it will be possible to identify the particular polyunsaturated fatty acid derived lipid hydroperoxides from their carboxy terminus that are involved in the induction of intracellular oxidative stress. Finally the isolation and characterization of unusual cyclic GSH adducts arising from the chemical reaction between ONE and GSH adducts 1a and III will permit an evaluation of their biological activity to be conducted.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims

