---

title: Module system for permitting storage device interface with TV
abstract: In a TV system with a modular configuration that permits licensed primary modules such as disk players and personal video recorders to be removably slid into engagement with receptacles in the TV housing, an adapter primary module is provided that is formed with secondary receptacles for receiving secondary modules. The secondary modules have USB ports, Ethernet ports, and memory card slots in a configuration that can be designed by entities other than the TV manufacturer, with the secondary modules having to conform to proprietary licensed interfaces in the adaptor module to ensure a degree of control by the TV manufacturer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08144266&OS=08144266&RS=08144266
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08144266
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070227
---
The present invention relates generally to modules for providing proprietary interfaces to TVs to third party vendors of non interactive storage media.

TV manufacturers may wish to provide TVs with built in interactive devices e.g. personal video recorders PVR optical disk players such as Blu Ray disk players and digital video disk DVD players and the like so that a customer conveniently need purchase only the TV with interactive devices in a single seamless system. As recognized by the present assignee it would be further desirable to provide the interactive devices with the TV in modular form so that as new and upgraded interactive devices become available the TV system may be upgraded by replacing an old module with a new one without having to purchase an entirely new TV system.

To ensure that only modular interactive devices meeting the manufacturer s standards to e.g. protect brand names can be used in connection with its TVs a TV manufacturer might wish to develop a proprietary way to connect such modular devices with its TVs such that interactive devices of third party manufacturers cannot be used unless they have been pre approved by the TV manufacturer and duly licensed. As recognized herein however the TV manufacturer might nonetheless wish to provide an easier less restrictive way for other manufacturers to provide certain non interactive devices such as data storage devices configured in a wide variety of options so that the TV customer has a wide selection of input output options from which to choose. It is to this critical recognition that the present invention is directed.

A TV housing is configured with first and second primary receptacles for respectively slidably receiving first and second primary modules. A first primary module such as a DVD player or PVR is slidably engageable with the first primary receptacle. The first primary module communicates with the first primary receptacle using a primary interface. A second primary module also referred to herein as an adaptor module is slidably engageable with the second primary receptacle. The second primary module is configured with one or more secondary receptacles. As set forth further below a secondary module is slidably engageable with the secondary receptacle with the secondary module including one or more computer network connection ports such as USB ports or Ethernet ports and or one or more solid state memory element interfaces such as memory card slots. The secondary module may communicate with the secondary receptacle using a secondary interface that is differently configured than the primary interface. With this structure the TV can display a list of content on memory devices communicating with the port and or memory element interface without requiring individual graphical user interfaces GUI for the port and or memory element interface.

If desired the secondary interface can include an application programming interface API allowing an Ethernet connection to the secondary module to be viewed on the TV only as a digital living network association DLNA connection such that only DLNA volumes and content associated with the secondary module can be displayed on the TV.

In another aspect a method for providing a listing on a TV of content on a storage device includes providing a receptacle in the TV and providing a primary module configured for removable positioning within the receptacle. The primary module may include a secondary receptacle. The method includes licensing an entity to provide for use with the primary module a secondary module that is positionable in the secondary receptacle. Also the method includes permitting the entity the discretion to design a configuration of the secondary module including plural secondary receptacles such as solid state memory receptacles and computer network connection ports.

In yet another aspect a secondary module has a housing configured for positioning within a receptacle of a primary module that in turn is configured for positioning in a receptacle of a TV. Plural secondary receptacles such as solid state memory receptacles and computer network connection ports are on the housing.

The details of the present invention both as to its structure and operation can best be understood in reference to the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts and in which 

Referring initially to a system is shown generally designated which includes a TV having a video monitor for displaying TV signals received at a TV tuner under control of a TV processor . The TV components are held in a TV housing that can be formed with one or more primary receptacles as shown.

A first primary module is slidably engageable with one of the primary receptacles as shown. As intended by the manufacturer of the TV the first primary module communicates with the corresponding primary receptacle using a proprietary primary interface that can include application programming interfaces API and non standard physical connectors to ensure that only licensed modules can function with the TV . The first primary module can be e.g. an interactive module such as a personal video recorders PVR or a video disk player such as a DVD or Blu Ray player.

The present invention is directed to a second primary module which in essence is an adaptor module that is removably e.g. slidably engageable with another primary receptacle of the TV as shown. In accordance with present principles the adaptor module is configured with one or more secondary receptacles . Each secondary receptacle can removably receive e.g. by sliding a respective secondary module . If desired a primary module may include a primary processor while a secondary module may include a secondary module processor .

In accordance with the present invention a secondary module is not nor does it include a PVR or a disk player or other interactive device but rather includes one or more computer network connection ports such as universal serial bus USB ports and or Ethernet ports as well as solid state memory element interfaces such as slots for receiving solid state memory cards including Memory Sticks made by Sony Corp. In the non limiting embodiment shown in the top secondary module has four computer network connection ports arranged in a vertical column while the bottom secondary module has two computer network connection ports in a column above a memory card port it being understood that the particular mix and configuration of the ports slots of a secondary module are determined in the discretion of a third party provider entity other than the TV manufacturer.

A secondary module communicates with its respective receptacle and hence with the adaptor module using a secondary interface that may be different than and in some embodiments more relaxed than the primary interface so that the TV can display a list of content on memory devices communicating with the ports and or memory slots without requiring individual graphical user interfaces GUI for the port and or memory element interface. show that in a non limiting example the physical part of the interface can include a non standard connector in the adaptor module and a complementarily configured connector on the secondary module . By non standard is meant that the connectors are proprietary to the manufacturer of the TV in that standard connectors that can be used with devices of other vendors cannot be used as the connectors .

In the non limiting embodiment shown each connector may include a top row of connector elements such as pads or pins or sockets with the first three elements in the row being smaller than the last element in the row. A similar bottom row of connector elements can be provided and can be separated from the top row by a spacer section .

The interface between the adaptor module and secondary module can also include an application programming interface API executable by the processor of the adaptor module . In some embodiments the API allows an Ethernet connection to the secondary module to be viewed on the TV only as a digital living network association DLNA connection such that only DLNA volumes and content associated with the secondary module can be displayed on the TV. Also a USB device connected to the TV by means of a USB plug is viewable by the system only as a storage medium. Thus a computer connected to the USB plug of a secondary module is restricted by the API to functioning only as a storage medium and cannot function for other computing purposes. In any case no GUI need be provided separately for the adaptor module or secondary module since the TV simply displays a list of content available through the secondary module .

With the above disclosure in mind it may now be appreciated that the present invention permits licensing an entity to provide for use with the adaptor module a secondary module that is positionable in the receptacle for data storage purposes. The entity providing the module has the discretion to design a configuration of the secondary module including the configuration of memory card slots and computer network connection ports.

While the particular MODULE SYSTEM FOR PERMITTING STORAGE DEVICE INTERFACE WITH TV is herein shown and described in detail it is to be understood that the subject matter which is encompassed by the present invention is limited only by the claims.

