---

title: Apparatus for releasing a parachute from its payload
abstract: An apparatus for releasing a parachute from its payload upon ground impact by the payload. The apparatus has a pair of sections releasably secured to each other. Each section has an intermediate portion having a longitudinally extending axis and a spur receiving opening that extends through the intermediate portion and is transverse to the longitudinally extending axis, a first end portion attached to the intermediate portion and comprising a spur that extends in a generally lateral direction with respect to the longitudinally extending axis, and a second end portion attached to the intermediate portion such that the intermediate portion is between the first and second end portions. Each section is configured so that a lanyard can be connected to the section wherein in order to use the apparatus, a lanyard is attached to and between one section and a parachute, and another lanyard is attached to and between the other section and a payload.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08025254&OS=08025254&RS=08025254
owner: United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08025254
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070611
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention generally relates to an apparatus for releasing a parachute from its payload upon ground impact by the payload.

Parachutes are frequently used to deliver payloads to specific locations on the ground when it is not possible for aircraft to land. Typically such locations are isolated and not accessible by other means of transportation. Parachutes have become one of the main forms of payload delivery to military or civilian personnel located in isolated areas.

If the parachute remains connected to the payload when the payload hits the ground winds or other air turbulence can cause the parachute to drag the payload over the ground. This can damage or destroy the payload.

Various prior art devices for releasing a parachute from its payload are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 502 097 2 562 459 2 655 163 2 732 245 2 919 154 4 619 424 and 5 687 931.

What is needed is a new and improved apparatus for instantly releasing a parachute from its payload upon ground impact by the payload.

It is a primary object of the present invention to provide a simple efficient durable strong and quick acting apparatus that instantly releases a parachute from a payload supported by the parachute when the payload impacts the ground thereby preventing wind or other air turbulence from blowing the parachute along the ground with the payload still attached thereto.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the ensuing description and the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with aforesaid object the present invention is directed to an apparatus for releasing a parachute from its payload upon ground impact by the payload. In one embodiment this apparatus comprises a pair of sections releasably secured to each other. Each section comprises an intermediate portion having a longitudinally extending axis and a spur receiving opening that extends through the intermediate portion and is transverse to the longitudinally extending axis a first end portion attached to the intermediate portion and comprising a spur that extends in a generally lateral direction with respect to the longitudinally extending axis and a second end portion attached to the intermediate portion such that the intermediate portion is between the first and second end portions. Each section further comprises means for attaching a lanyard to the section wherein in order to use the apparatus a lanyard is attached between one of the sections and a parachute and another lanyard is attached between the other section and a payload. The apparatus further comprises components to forcefully release the sections from each other upon ground impact by a payload that is linked to one of the sections. The apparatus includes a device that releasably engages both sections to prevent the components from prematurely forcefully releasing the sections from each other in the absence of tension forces on the apparatus. The device is responsive to the opening of the parachute canopy such upon opening of the parachute canopy the device disengages from the sections so that the components will be free to forcefully release the sections from each other upon ground impact by the payload.

Referring to there is shown apparatus in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Apparatus is configured for use with payloads that weigh between about one 1 pound and three thousand 3 000 pounds. Apparatus generally comprises sections and that are releasably secured together. Preferably sections and are substantially identical to each other in structure and geometry. Sections and can be fabricated from any one of a variety of materials that exhibit the required strength e.g. metal composites plastics etc. The particular material used to fabricate sections and is highly dependent upon the maximum force that will be applied to sections and .

Referring to A and B section comprises intermediate portion end portion and end portion . Intermediate portion is attached to and between end portions and . Intermediate portion comprises shank portion A and relatively wide portion B. Intermediate portion has slot and opening . Slot transverses longitudinally extending axis . Slot is in proximity to end portion and is sized to receive a lanyard line wire cord etc. that is either attached to a parachute or a payload. As used herein the term lanyard shall include line cable wire cord etc. Shank portion A includes a pair of openings and that are relatively smaller than opening . The purpose of openings and is discussed in the ensuing description. Curved leaf spring is connected to shank portion A and is positioned between openings and . End portion comprises spur that extends in a generally lateral direction with respect to longitudinally extending axis . Spur has a width that is less than the width of shank portion A. This difference in widths provides shoulders A and B. The purposes of shoulders A and B are discussed in the ensuing description. As shown in spur is angulated with respect to horizontal reference axis by an angle . Angle is between about 8 and 14 . However it is critical that the angle does not exceed 15 . The purpose of this configuration is discussed in the ensuing description.

Referring to section comprises intermediate portion end portion and end portion . Intermediate portion is attached to and between end portions and . Intermediate portion comprises shank portion A and relatively wide portion B. Intermediate portion has a slot and opening which perform the same functions as slot and opening respectively of section . Shank portion A has a pair of openings and that are relatively smaller than opening . The purpose of openings and are the same as the purpose of openings and respectively of shank portion A of section .

Referring to curved leaf spring is connected to shank portion A and located between openings and . The purpose of curved leaf spring is the same as that of curved leaf spring of section and is discussed in the ensuing description. End portion comprises spur . Spur has substantially the same shape as spur and also performs the same function as spur . Spur has a width that is less than the width of shank portion A. This difference in widths provides a pair of shoulders. One of these shoulders is shoulder . The other shoulder is not shown. The purpose of these shoulders is the same as the purpose of shoulders A and B. Spur is also angulated with respect to the longitudinally extending axis of section . In a preferred embodiment spur is angulated by the same angle to which spur see is angulated.

Referring to and sections and are configured to be releasably secured to each other. In order to releasably secure sections and together each section and is vertically oriented so that spur of section is aligned with opening in section and spur of section is aligned with opening of section . Next spur is inserted into opening of section and spur is inserted into opening of section . Sections and are pressed together so that curved leaf springs and become compressed. A safety tie is inserted into through openings of sections and openings and of section and configured to compress sections and together so as to counter the opposite force produced by curved leaf springs and . Thus safety tie keeps sections and releasably secured together when tension forces do not exist on apparatus thereby preventing sections and from being prematurely released from one another prior to the opening of the parachute canopy. Lanyard is connected to safety tie and to a parachute canopy not shown . A lanyard is attached to section via slot and then fastened to a payload not shown . Lanyard is fastened to section via slot and to a parachute not shown . Although sections and are shown to have slot and slot respectively for attaching lanyards other alternate configurations can be used. For example instead of slots the sections and can be configured to have eye hooks carabiners etc.

Referring to during the opening phase of the parachute a tension force is created in lanyard which breaks safety tie . After safety tie is broken sections and are held together by the combination of the shallow angle of spurs and and the tension exerted on sections and by the force of the parachute and the payload. Upon ground impact by the payload tension on apparatus instantly decreases to zero at which time curved leaf springs and force sections and apart causing spurs and to become dislodged from openings and respectively thereby instantly releasing sections and from each other. Section remains connected to the parachute via lanyard and section remains connected to the payload via lanyard . As a result the parachute is separated from the payload. Thus apparatus effects instant release of the parachute from the payload after ground impact so that the payload will not be dragged by the parachute.

If upon ground impact by the payload spur becomes dislodged from opening before spur becomes dislodged from opening shoulders A and B prevent the entire shank section A of section from sliding through opening . Similarly if upon ground impact by the payload spur becomes dislodged from opening before spur becomes dislodged from opening the shoulders e.g. shoulder of end portion prevent the entire shank section A of section from sliding through opening .

In a preferred embodiment sections and are substantially identical in shape and structure. Thus it does not matter which of these sections is attached to the parachute or the payload. Apparatus can be connected to one or more parachutes.

Referring to there is shown an apparatus for releasing a parachute from its payload in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. Apparatus is configured to be used with payloads that are heavier than 3000 pounds. Apparatus comprises section and section . In a preferred embodiment sections and are substantially identical in structure and shape.

Referring to section generally comprises intermediate portion end portion and opposite end portion . End portions and are attached to intermediate portion such that intermediate portion is between end portions and . Section has slanted opening which extends through the thickness of section and which transverses longitudinally extending axis . Slanted opening is sized for receiving spur of section see . Section further includes bore and threaded bore which also extend through the thickness of section and transverse longitudinally extending axis . Bore is sized for receiving a safety lock pin assembly that is described in the ensuing description. Threaded bore is sized for receiving a plug screw assembly which is also described in the ensuing description. End portion comprises spur that is angulated with respect to longitudinally extending axis by angle . Angle is between about 8 and 14 . It is critical that angle does not exceed 15 . End portion is angulated with respect to longitudinally extending axis by angle . It is critical that angle does not exceed 12 . Section further includes opening that receives a lanyard line wire cable rope etc. that is attached to either a parachute or payload. As used herein the term lanyard shall include line wire cable rope etc. In a preferred embodiment opening is configured as a slot.

Referring to section generally comprises intermediate portion and end portions and that are attached to intermediate portion . Intermediate portion is between end portions and . Intermediate portion has slanted opening that extends through the thickness of section and transverses longitudinally extending axis . The purpose of slanted opening is sized to receive spur of section see . Section further includes threaded bore and bore that extend through the thickness of section . Threaded bore is sized for a receiving plug screw assembly which is described in the ensuing description. Bore is sized for receiving a safety lock pin assembly that is also described in the ensuing description. End portion comprises spur that is angulated in the same manner as spur of section . End portion is angulated in the same manner as end of section . Section further includes opening that receives lanyard that is attached to either a parachute or payload. In a preferred embodiment opening is configured as a slot see .

Although sections and are shown to have slot and slot respectively for attaching lanyards other alternate configurations can be used. For example instead of slots the sections and can be configured to have eye hooks carabiners etc.

Referring to in order to releasably secure sections and together spur of section is inserted into slanted opening of section and spur of section is inserted into slanted opening of section . Next safety lock pin and ejection spring are inserted into bore . Ejection spring is mounted on safety lock pin . Trigger pin is inserted into a cavity or bore that is near distal end of safety lock pin . Next plug screw assemblies are inserted into threaded bores and of sections and respectively. Specifically a plug screw assembly comprising plug screw separation spring and contact member are inserted into threaded bore . Spring is mounted on contact member . Plug screw is screwed into threaded bore until contact member abuts intermediate portion of section and spring is significantly compressed between plug screw and contact member . Similarly a plug screw assembly comprising plug screw separation spring and contact member are inserted into threaded bore . Spring is mounted on contact member . Plug screw spring and contact member function in the same manner as plug screw spring and contact member respectively. Plug screw is screwed into threaded bore until contact member abuts intermediate portion of section and spring is significantly compressed between plug screw and contact member .

As shown in a lanyard is fastened to a parachute canopy not shown and inserted through an opening in trigger pin . Cable stop is connected to the end of lanyard . Another lanyard not shown is fastened to section via opening and to a payload not shown . A further lanyard not shown is fastened to section via opening and to the parachute not shown . During the opening phase of the parachute canopy tension forces are applied to apparatus which force sections and tightly together. Lanyard is drawn up by the parachute canopy until cable stop contacts trigger pin . Further movement of lanyard withdraws trigger pin from safety lock pin . Once this occurs ejection spring ejects safety lock pin from bore thereby arming the apparatus such that sections and will be free to separate from one another once the payload impacts the ground. As the parachute and payload descend tension is applied to apparatus . This tension in combination with the placement of angled spurs and in slanted openings and respectively keep sections and secured together during descent. Upon ground impact of the payload the tension force between the parachute and payload instantly decreases to zero thereby allowing separation springs and to force sections and apart such that spurs and are ejected from openings and respectively. When this occurs sections and are completely separated from each other section remains connected to the parachute and section remains connected to the payload.

Thus apparatus effects instant release of the parachute from the payload after ground impact so that the payload will not be dragged or overturned. Thus the payload is prevented from being damaged or destroyed.

Since sections and are identical in geometry and construction it does not matter which section is attached to the parachute or payload. Apparatus can be connected to one or more parachutes.

The apparatus of the present invention is scalable in size mass and strength depending upon load requirements

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is neither intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

