---

title: Detection of anthrax pathogenicity factors
abstract: One major problem in diagnosis methods presently available for anthrax is that these methods require several days to produce a result. The only existing treatment for anthrax requires administration soon after infection at a time when patients are exhibiting only mild flu-like symptoms. Thus, a patient may be days beyond the time when treatment would be effective by the time a diagnosis is made. The present invention reduces diagnosis time to as little as four hours providing same day identification of anthrax radically increasing the odds of delivering proper treatment and patient recovery. The rapid identification of anthrax lethal factor activity exhibited by the instant invention is also amenable to in vivo screening protocols for the discovery and development of anthrax vaccines and lethal factor inhibitors. The instant invention isolates and concentrates lethal factor and lethal toxin from nearly any biological sample. By capitalizing on the endopeptidase activity of lethal factor the present invention amplifies output signals producing reliable detection of picomolar concentrations of lethal factor. The instant invention involves novel purification and detection techniques and substrates for rapid, reproducible, and quantitative measurements of anthrax lethal factor in biological samples.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08663926&OS=08663926&RS=08663926
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
number: 08663926
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070215
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 773 489 filed Feb. 15 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates generally to disease diagnostics and in particular to methods for detecting infection of anthrax in a patient and screening anthrax therapeutics.

Anthrax is caused by infection with a spore forming rod shaped bacterium. The dormant spore form is highly resistant to extreme conditions high temperatures and a variety of chemical treatments. The spores gain entry either through an open wound causing cutaneous disease or by ingestion causing gastrointestinal disease or are inhaled causing inhalation anthrax. All three forms can progress to a systemic infection leading to shock respiratory failure and death. Mock M. and Mignot T. 2003 5 1 15 23 . The stability of the spores and their infectious capacity make them a convenient bioterrorist weapon.

The two known toxins of are binary combinations of protective antigen PA named for its ability to induce protective immunity against anthrax with either edema factor EF or lethal factor LF . PA is the cell binding component of both toxins and is responsible for bringing the catalytic EF or LF into the host cells. EF is an adenylate cyclase which converts ATP to cyclic AMP and causes edema Brossier F. and Mock M. 2001 39 11 1747 55 . The combination of PA EF forms edema toxin ETx which causes edema when injected locally. LF is a zinc dependent endoprotease known to target the amino terminus of the mitogen activated protein kinase kinase MAPKK family of response regulators Id. . The cleavage of these proteins disrupts a signaling pathway and leads to cytokine dysregulation and immune dysfunction. LF combined with PA forms lethal toxin LTx which is lethal when injected on its own. It is also known that there are fatal anthrax cases where administration of antibiotics and clearance of bacteria have failed to rescue the patient. This indicates that there may be a point of no return level of LTx in the blood that may predict the outcome of infection. Clearly LTx and its components are important targets for diagnostics and quantification.

The protein targets of LF are highly specific and peptides similar to those proteins can be used as artificial substrates. The inventive method uses an artificial peptide substrate which is clipped by LF producing two distinct smaller peptide products. The LF specific cleaved peptides are detected by a variety of rapid quantitative methods illustratively including matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry MALDI TOF that visualizes mass specific peaks of the cleaved peptides and fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET that allows for simple detection using bench top fluorometers. Thus the instant invention detects the specific activity of LF by measuring peptide cleavage products produced per unit time to indicate the amount of LF present.

Existing assays for LF activity such as SDS PAGE Vitale G. et al. 2000 352 739 745 Duesbery N. S. et al. 1998 280 734 737 or HPLC Hammond S. E. Hanna P. C. 1998 66 2374 2378 are impractical for high throughput screening of compound collections and rapid diagnosis of host infection. Methods for rapid screening of patients in a hospital setting or identification of potent and selective LF inhibitors requires an assay that is less labor intensive has faster turnaround and is effective at low levels of enzyme. Cummings R. T. 2002 99 6603 6606 .

Development of a safe and effective vaccine for inhalation and other forms of anthrax infection is vital to the health and safety of the population and an essential component of any bioterrorism defense strategy. Additionally the identification of targeted therapies following anthrax infection is essential to managing a patient population. As such there exists a need for methods to rapidly identify possible candidate vaccines and treatments. There also exists a need for rapid diagnosis of anthrax infection that can be distinguished from other infections that initially display similar symptoms.

The instant invention teaches a method for detecting an anthrax pathogenicity factor in a biological sample. The anthrax pathogenicity factor is isolated and concentrated from the biological sample. The anthrax pathogenicity factor is subsequently reacted with a peptide substrate that is cleaved to yield at least two substrate cleavage products detected by one of several methods known in the art. As such relative catalytic efficiency of the anthrax pathogenicity factor is measured.

Multiple forms of anthrax pathogenicity factor are taught by and are detected by the present invention illustratively including lethal factor and lethal toxin.

The instant invention teaches a biological sample that is acquired by standard methods known in the art from a patient or other test subject illustratively including humans and other mammals. The biological sample illustratively includes whole blood plasma serum extracellular fluid cytosolic fluid pleural fluid or tissue.

A target form of anthrax pathogenicity factor is isolated and concentrated from the biological sample in an exemplary step through binding to beads coupled with an antibody specific to the anthrax pathogenicity factor. The beads employed are optionally magnetic thereby allowing for gentle and rapid separation from other components present in the biological sample. The isolation and purification substrate occurs on a solid substrate or other substrates known in the art. A solid substrate is illustratively a microtiter plate. Magnetic beads are optionally coated with protein G and an antibody specific to the anthrax pathogenicity factor. Antibodies operative herein illustratively include those derived from organisms including mammal human mouse rabbit monkey donkey horse rat swine cat chicken goat guinea pig hamster and sheep. The antibody selected is appreciated to be monoclonal or polyclonal. Antibodies specific for various targets are employed illustratively including anthrax protective antigen lethal toxin lethal factor and edema factor.

Following isolation and concentration the pathogenicity factor is reacted with a peptide substrate to determine the enzymatic activity specific for pathogenicity factor present in the biological sample. The instant invention teaches synthetic forms of a peptide substrate that contain between 2 and 100 residues. However it is appreciated that large protein substrates such as members of the mitogen activated protein kinase kinase family are also operative herein. The peptide substrate optionally is tagged with one or more detection taggant molecules to facilitate detection the taggants illustratively including a fluorophore a fluorescence quenching molecule or a light absorbing molecule biotin avidin horseradish peroxidase streptavidin and digoxin. Nonlimiting examples of peptide substrates operative in the present invention include sequence numbers Seq. Nos. 1 18.

The instant invention teaches several detection methods illustratively including mass spectrometry fluorescence resonance energy transfer fluorescence light absorption enzyme linked immunoadsorbant assay coupled enzyme assay continuous enzyme assay discontinuous enzyme assay flow cytometry FLIPR high performance liquid chromatography and colorimetric assay.

The instant invention also teaches an apparatus for isolating and detecting an anthrax pathogenicity factor that includes isolation and concentration of the pathogenicity factor by binding to magnetic beads. The apparatus includes a reaction chamber in which the isolated and concentrated pathogenicity factor is reacted with a peptide substrate that is subsequently applied to a matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometer MALDI TOF apparatus for detection and quantification of cleavage products.

Processes and substrates are provided to rapidly and reliably recognize infection by infection in an animal or human host. The present invention provides methods for rapidly isolating and concentrating LTx and its active component LF and then efficiently detecting the activity of LF as a marker of infection in a host.

By capitalizing on the enzymatic activity of the LF to cleave inventive peptide substrates suitable for rapid detection and quantitation in a hospital or laboratory setting the present invention has utility as a diagnostic test which guides patient treatment of . The inventive test is rapid highly sensitive and specific acute phase. The instant invention also has utility as a tool for screening specific compared to conventional testing lethal factor inhibitors and for monitoring infection an LF toxemia for vaccine candidate trials. The present invention has utility in monitoring LTx toxemia. The present invention affords a process to monitor onset progression and response to treatment kinetics of infection including the effectiveness of anthrax therapeutics.

Monitoring disease progression in a patient population is essential to providing optimal treatment following infective exposure to . Often distinguishing an infection by from other flu like or febrile illnesses is difficult particularly in a setting where exposure to is rare or the threat of bioterrorism is low. Early detection and identification of exposure in a bioterrorism situation is a benefit in tracking the infection source. Currently employed diagnostic techniques for identifying infection are ineffective from 4 to 8 days post infection. The present inventive process employs several levels of specificity including specific immunoabsorbance of LF or LTx and substrates that are highly specific for LF. Thus the present invention has the capability of detecting infection less than two days post exposure. It is appreciated that the present invention offers results within 4 hours of obtaining a biological sample such that directed treatment strategies may begin earlier and enhancing potential patient survival.

A biological sample is obtained from a patient or test subject and immediately sampled or alternatively frozen for later analysis at the situs of collection or remote from the source of the sample. A nonlimiting example includes samples taken in environments lacking state of the art diagnostic instruments. A simple blood sample is drawn into vacutainer or other tubes known in the art and then immediately frozen for prompt shipment. As a result a diagnosis of infection is obtained in as little as 12 24 hours following a patient presenting symptoms of exposure to

An inventive kit employs prepackaged anti LF or anti LTx coated beads to isolate LF from a biological sample. A reaction chamber is provided for isolation and purification. Buffers are optionally included with the kit to be illustratively used for washing the beads diluting the biological sample eluting the beads reacting with the peptide substrate reconstituting the peptide substrate storing the beads storing the peptide substrate freezing or otherwise storing the isolated and concentrated LF freezing or otherwise storing the cleavage products or preparing samples for detection. Suitable buffers illustratively include phosphate buffered saline PBS phosphate buffered saline plus Tween 20 PBS T HEPES buffered saline HBS HBS Tween 20 HBS T citrate phosphate buffers water or other suitable buffers known in the art. The reaction chamber is used for cleavage of a peptide substrate. Optionally a second reaction chamber is provided for cleavage of a peptide substrate. The isolated LF is appreciated to be amenable to freezing and shipment for remote analysis. It is further appreciated that cleavage products are also amenable to freezing for later detection quantification or analysis at a remote location and time. These or other methods of employing the present invention may be used to deliver rapid effective diagnosis on a worldwide scale in a time frame that is not possible with current diagnostic techniques.

It is appreciated in that that present invention is also applied to screening foodstuffs for human or other animal consumption. Wild animals or farm animals become infected by from food that is contaminated with the bacteria. People are commonly exposed to anthrax from contaminated animals or animal products. Biological samples from meat processing plants are rapidly screened for prior exposure to anthrax. It is appreciated that a biological sample illustratively includes whole blood plasma serum extracellular fluid cytosolic fluid or tissue and other fluids known to harbor the bacteria. Simple techniques known in the art may be employed to homogenize liquefy or otherwise process the sample for analysis by the present invention. In instances when tissue is sampled the sample is amenable to being frozen and analyzed remotely in time and place. Alternatively an inventive field kit is employed.

Soil samples are also analyzed by the present inventive process for the presence of . Direct soil samples are used or incubator cells may be employed to provide a system by which exposure may be studied.

The inventive method is performed using numerous biological samples illustratively including whole blood plasma serum extracellular fluid cytosolic fluid or tissue. Typically serum is used as a suitable biological sample due to the ease in obtaining a sample by a venous blood draw from a patient or other test subject. It is recognized in the art that numerous other biological samples are suitable in the present invention dependent on the application desired. By way of example a biological sample may be as simple as an aqueous buffering agent such as HBS or PBS any of which are spiked with known or unknown levels of LF. Cell growth media is also suitable as a biological sample for screening transfected cell cultures for expression of active LF according to the present invention. It is appreciated that other biological samples are used such as a homogenized tissue sample that may or may not have been infected with anthrax.

Numerous biological species are suitable as sources of biological samples for use in the inventive methods. As used herein a host synonymously described herein as a patient or subject is any organism able to sustain bacteria or produce LF and specifically includes nonhuman primates such as monkeys baboons chimpanzees and gorillas humans ruminates such as sheep cows and goats and rabbits. The inventive process is also operative as a diagnostic tool to identify and monitor the progression of infection by anthrax spores such as may occur following a bioterrorist attack. However it is recognized in the art that the invention is used in numerous other types of analyses illustratively including screening for suitable vaccines and for efficacy of therapeutics such as anthrax immune globulin AIG and anti PA antibodies in an in vitro screening assay where the source of the LF may be transfected protein expressing cell lines. Another nonlimiting use is the screening of cattle that that have been found dead on a ranch such that the remainder of the herd may be rapidly and properly isolated from any infected animals reducing the impact of a disease outbreak.

Upon selection of a biological sample detecting LF by the present inventive process involves isolating and concentrating LF in said biological sample. Preferably nonporous magnetic beads coated with protein G and reacted with antibodies that recognize and bind LF are employed to capture the LF from the biological sample. Magnetic beads have the advantage of requiring no centrifugation thus allowing magnetic bead regeneration without loss of binding capacity. Magnetic beads also allow for minimal loss of sample due to pipetting as magnetic beads migrate to the sides of the reaction tube. It is further appreciated that magnetic beads allow for small scale isolation methods minimizing biological sample requirements. Other bead types or compositions operative herein illustratively include agarose sepharose nickel or other materials known in the art. Numerous commercial sources are available for protein purification beads including New England Biolabs Quiagen and Bachem.

Protein G coated magnetic beads suitable for use in the present inventive process are prepared and reacted with a suitable antibody for recognizing and binding LF. Monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies or combinations thereof are suitable for selective LF binding. Preferably monoclonal antibodies are used that recognize a region on LF that does not result in interference with the protease activity of the toxin. The antibodies are readily derived from numerous organisms including but not limited to a human mouse rabbit monkey donkey horse rat swine cat chicken goat guinea pig hamster or sheep. Antibodies specific for LF are readily obtained from numerous commercial sources including HyTest Ltd Santa Cruz Biotechnology or Millipore. Preferably anti LF antibodies derived from a rabbit or a macaque monkey are reacted with protein G coated beads such that the antibodies are adsorbed to the beads. It is appreciated that antibodies directed to PA LTx EF edema toxin surface protein IsdC sortase B and extracellular excreted metalloproteinases produced by as detailed in A. I. Aronson et al. J. Biol. Chem. 187 3133 3138 2005 are similarly employed in conjunction with or as an alternative to LF. These antigen targets of antibodies are collectively defined as anthrax pathogenicity factor APF . A schematic of APFs is provided in with the exemplary LF and LTx couplet of toxins detailed in the following examples being highlighted. The beads are then blocked with bovine serum albumin BSA polyethylene glycol PEG or other blocking agents known in the art. A biological sample is incubated with the anti APF coated beads for sufficient time to allow equilibrium binding to develop generally between 1 minute and 3 hours depending on the affinity of the antibody and the anticipated concentration of APF in the biological sample. APF bound beads are then washed with a suitable buffer such as PBS T HBS PEG or other suitable buffering system known in the art to remove any unbound protein or other serum components. An appropriate APF peptide substrate is added to the washed beads and incubated between 1 minute and 20 hours and typically about 1 hour. However it is recognized in the art that the appropriate incubation time depends on substrate affinity kinetic or catalytic efficiency constants intrinsic to the selected peptide substrate such that a detectable amount of product is formed in the incubation time. Such constants are readily determined by techniques well known and commonly practiced in the art.

Peptide substrates operative in the present inventive process are selected based on known affinity and kinetic constants as well as by the method of detection to be employed under the inventive method. Preferably a peptide substrate possesses one potential scissile bond to simplify the kinetics of the cleavage reaction. The selected peptide substrate mimics the natural target of APF or is a natural target of APF depending on the assay detection method to be employed. Typically the selected peptide is comprised of between 2 and 100 amino acid residues and preferably contains more than 10 residues. Preferably the present invention is practiced with peptide substrates that mimic the sequence of the regions surrounding the scissile bond in natural LF target proteins. However it is appreciated that other amino acid residues are optionally substituted within the sequence. For example one or more amino acid residues within a sequence can be substituted by another amino acid of a similar polarity which acts as a functional equivalent. Substitutes for an amino acid within the sequence are illustratively selected from other members of the class to which the amino acid belongs. For example the nonpolar hydrophobic amino acids include alanine leucine isoleucine valine proline phenylalanine tryptophan and methionine. The polar neutral amino acids include glycine serine threonine cysteine tyrosine asparagine and glutamine. The positively charged basic amino acids include arginine lysine and histidine. The negatively charged acidic amino acids include aspartic acid and glutamic acid. Also included within the scope of the present invention are ligands or fragments or derivatives thereof which are differentially modified during or after translation e.g. by glycosylation phosphorylation acetylation sulfation linkage to an antibody molecule or other cellular ligands.

It is also appreciated that an appropriate substitution is optionally employed that increases the catalytic efficiency of the cleavage reaction. A nonlimiting illustration includes the substation of alanine for isolucine at the P1 position that results in a nearly 9 fold increase in catalytic efficiency. Turk B. E. et al. 2004 11 60 66 . A percent homology of greater than 50 is required and preferably greater than 90 . The percent homology is calculated by standard methods Current Methods in Sequence Comparison and Analysis Sequencing and Synthesis Selected Methods and Applications pp. 127 149 1998 Alan R. Liss Inc. Numerous other peptide sequences are known in the art. Representative peptides sequences operative in the present invention include 

Alternatively the peptide substrate is tagged with a biotin avidin horseradish peroxidase streptavidin or digoxin molecule. A nonlimiting example illustratively includes the addition of biotin to a residue within the peptide substrate such that upon cleavage a peptide of reduced size retains the biotin molecule s that is subsequently purified on an avidin column for further characterization or quantitation.

In a preferred embodiment a peptide substrate contains multiple molecular modifications such as a coumarin fluorophore 7 hydroxy 4 methyl 3 acetylcoumarinyl 386 nm 448 nm paired with either 4 dimethylaminoazobenzene 4 carboxyl DABCYL 454 nm or QSY 35 N 4 7 nitro 2 1 3 benzoxadiazol 4 yl amino phenyl acetyl 475 nm as the quencher. Thus a FRET based assay is available with little background fluorescence due to a FRET in the intact substrate between the fluorophore and the quencher that prevents light emission in the uncleaved peptide substrate. When the substrate is cleaved by APF and preferably LF an increase in fluorescent light emission by the coumarin fluorophore is readily detected with a bench top fluorometer.

Alternatively a substrate undergoes a colorimetric reaction. For example a substrate containing a p nitroaniline or other group known in the art results in a color change in the solution following substrate cleavage by APF such as LF. The creation of a species that modifies solution pH is also discernable through colorimetric monitoring of a pH indicator or use of an ion selective electrode. Such a colorimetric assay can be performed either continuously or discontinuously and is further amenable to plate based assay formats similar to the FRET based or other fluorescence assays described above.

The present inventive method is amenable to numerous detection protocols and apparatus. In a preferred embodiment a sample of the analyte is analyzed by MALDI TOF. MALDI TOF has the advantage of recognizing particular cleavage products by resulting peptide masses. Comparison with an internal standard fixes the cleavage product mass. Internal standards illustratively include adrenocorticotropic hormone ACTH bradykinin and angiotensin II. In a preferred embodiment an internal standard is an isotopically labeled peptide seven mass units higher than and corresponding to the sequence of the target cleavage peptide. Using a ratio of the area under the peak representing the target peptide and that representing the internal standard a relative quantity of the target peptide is obtained. Exemplary MALDI TOF spectra absent toxin and with 1 nanogram ng LF are shown in the presence of a standard at mass m z of about 1411 are provided in . Analyses of samples at numerous time points following addition of the peptide substrate to the reaction chamber allows for kinetic measurements of product formation and determination of the amount of APF present in the original biological sample. It is recognized in the art that numerous other forms of mass spectrometry may be employed as detection methods in the present invention such as electro spray ionization LC MS MS etc.

In another preferred embodiment detection of cleavage products is performed using a simple bench top fluorometer. Employing dual labeled peptide substrate with a fluorescent group placed either N or C terminal to the scissile bond and a quenching group placed an appropriate distance from the fluorescent group on the opposite end of the scissile bond allows for rapid and real time monitoring of reaction product formation following cleavage of the substrate reducing the FRET and resulting in an increase in observable fluorescence as shown in . Optionally the reaction is quenched by the addition of 1 mM ortho phenanthroline 10 mM EDTA after a known amount of time has elapsed following substrate addition to the reaction chamber. The magnitude of the fluorescence is measured and compared to a standard curve for determination of product formation per unit time that is then related back to the unknown activity of APF in the reaction. The endpoint analysis is particularly amenable to being performed in 96 well plate format for robotic processing and improving screening throughput. It is recognized in the art that both continuous and endpoint assay and detection methods are amenable to miniaturization to 384 well 1096 well or other plate based assay formats.

Screening APF inhibitors in vivo provides physiologically relevant information as to the potency bioavailability rate of clearance and efficacy of potential small molecule or antibody based inhibitors of APF. The present invention is particularly useful as a rapid high throughput assay format for screening such inhibitors. The detection limit using MALDI TOF analysis is as low as 5 picograms pg of specific LF activity and comparable for other APF on a mole basis The assay successfully detects 59 pg of specific LF activity in as little as 5 l of sera from host with inhalation anthrax. Antibodies are available or are raised against APF from numerous species commonly used for screening purposes such as murine rabbit guinea pig hamster canine swine or monkey. Techniques for raising antibodies to molecular targets are well known in the art. A nonlimiting example is early in vivo screening protocols employing mice who are dosed with small molecule or other compounds. The mouse is optionally subjected to inhalation anthrax or other forms to initiate an onset of infection. Following administration of a lead compound directed toward preventing anthrax infection proliferation ability of toxins to bind to target cells or other mechanisms of anthrax infection small blood samples are acquired and analyzed by the present invention for LF activity. As the present invention requires only modest serum quantities such as 5 l numerous time points are readily obtained from a single mouse allowing for in vivo kinetic measurements.

The present invention is also employed in screening protocols for the identification and trials of candidate vaccines by allowing rapid observation of the degree to which antibodies generated by a vaccine neutralize catalytic activity associated with a given APF.

As the present invention capitalizes on the activity of APF in a biological sample it is operative to predict the disease progression in animals that have been subjected to anthrax infection that may or may not have been pretreated with a vaccine candidate. A correlation is expected between the efficacy of a vaccine and reduced levels of APF present in a biological sample from a test host. As such sampling host tissues or fluid samples following the initiation of infection provides a real time readout of the progress of the infection. A reduction of the levels of APF activity in a host treated with a vaccine serves as a direct measure of vaccine efficacy. Thus the present invention has numerous advantages over simple death screening models as it is expected to provide a superior correlation with lower levels of vaccine efficacy providing investigators with data that allows for more complete differentiation between possible candidate vaccines. It is further appreciated that numerous additional parameters of protection may be analyzed using the present invention. The present invention is well suited to determine alterations in the rate of infection progression levels of free LF levels of LTx other APFs rate of disease resolution or other parameters common to the art to screen differentiate or monitor vaccine performance.

While the present invention detects 5 picograms pg of LF in a sample of 5 microliters l it is appreciated that the subject invention is readily practiced with a larger sample toxin quantity volume or both. The ability of specific antibodies coated on beads may be used to isolate LF LTx or other APFs in large sample volumes such as from wet soil by simple agitation of the sample such that the beads remain in suspension for the isolation period. In this way even dilute biological samples may be screened for the presence of anthrax.

Optionally the present inventive method is used to isolate and identify other proteases with specific substrates and is not limited to APFs. The present invention has utility as a diagnostic for a variety of disease conditions or deficiencies. These conditions and deficiencies illustratively include hepatitis enzyme deficiency erythropoietin catalase endotoxic shock sepsis adenosine deaminase for treatment of severe combined immunodeficiency lipid binding protein LBP purine nucleotide phosphorylase galactosidase beta glucuronidase antioxidants for cancer therapy anemia superoxide dismutase cancer growth factors for use in wound healing induction of red blood cell formation and the like interferon interferon epidermal growth factor granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF alpha IL1 gamma interferon phenylalanine ammonia lyase transforming growth factor arginase erythropoietin L asparaginase thrombopoietin uricase insulin like growth factor 1 insulin human growth hormone monoclonal antibodies tissue necrosis factor cardiovascular disease diabetes tissue plasminogen activator urokinase native or chimeric glucagon 1 antitrypsin insulinotrophic hormone clotting disorders antithrombin III other proteases or protease inhibitors coagulation factors Xa VIIa XIa XIIa IXa thrombin the presence or absence of cofactor clotting factors VIII V or others apolipoproteins particularly B 48 circulating scavenger receptor APO A1 which converts low density lipoproteins to high density lipoproteins gastrointestinal and pancreatic deficiencies obesity and feeding pepsin for esophageal reflux Ob gene product cholecystokinin CCK trypsin chymotrypsin bone diseases elastase carboxypeptidase calcitonin lactase for lactose deficiency PTH like hormone sucrase intrinsic factor pernicious anemia myasthenia gravis acetylcholine receptors Graves disease thyroid stimulating hormone receptor organ specific autoimmune diseases target of antibody in parentheses thyroiditis thyroid peroxidase insulin resistant diabetes with acanthosis nigricans or with ataxia telangiectasia insulin receptor allergic rhinitis asthma 2 adrenergic receptors juvenile insulin dependent diabetes insulin GAD65 pernicious anemia gastric parietal cells vitamin B12 binding site of intrinsic factor Addison s disease adrenal cells idiopathic hypoparathyroidism parathyroid cells spontaneous infertility sperm premature ovarian failure interstitial cells corpus luteum cells pemphigus intercellular substance of skin and mucosa bullous pemphigoid basement membrane zone of skin and mucosa primary biliary cirrhosis mitochondria autoimmune hemolytic anemia erythrocytes idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura platelet idiopathic neutropenia neutrophils vitiligo melanocytes osteosclerosis and Meniere s disease type II collagen chronic active hepatitis nuclei of hepatocytes systemic autoimmune diseases defect organ affected in parentheses Goodpasture s syndrome basement membranes rheumatoid arthritis globulin EBV related antigens collagen types II and III Sjogren s syndrome globulin SS A Ro SS B La systemic lupus erythematosus nuclei double stranded DNA single stranded DNA Sm ribonucleoprotein lymphocytes erythrocytes neurons gamma globulin scleroderm nuclei Scl 70 SS A Ro SS B La centromere polymyositis nuclei Jo 1 PL 7 histadyl tRNA synthetase threonyl tRNA synthetase PM 1 Mi 2 rheumatic fever myocardium heart valves and choroid plexus.

The present invention is further detailed with respect to LF and LTx purification and detection as representative of the present invention detection of other enzymatic APFs and other disease associated proteases. The following examples are not intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention and instead provide specific working embodiments.

Protein G coated beads are obtained from Invitrogen. 20 100 l of bead suspension are used to covalently link Ig from a 100 l sample to the beads according to the manufacturers protocol. To separate the beads the reaction tube is placed on a magnet for 1 min and the resulting supernatant discarded by aspiration. The beads are resuspended in phosphate buffered saline with 0.05 Tween20 pH 7.3 PBS TW and stored until ready for use Thorough washing is achieved by repeating the magnetic pelleting and resuspension steps three times.

Anti LF coated magnetic beads LF MABs are prepared using mouse monoclonal anti LF IgG that is prepared according to the manufacturer s protocol Invitrogen using 40 ug IgG 100 ul magnetic bead suspension.

A serum plasma pleural fluid or other biological sample is obtained from a patient or infected animal. The sample is diluted in 500 l PBS TW and mixed gently with 20 l MABsLF MABs for 1 hour. The beads with LF and LTx bound are retrieved washed three times in PBS TW then reconstituted in PBS TW for further analyses by mass spectrometry as shown in .

LF coated MABsMABs are incubated with 5 nmoles of synthetic peptide substrate SKARRKKVYPMENFPPSTARPT Seq. No. 1 in 200 l buffer over 2 hours at 37 C. to allow for cleavage product formation. Samples of the cleavage reaction are taken at times 5 10 15 30 45 60 90 120 and 240 minutes LF bound MABs in each sample are pelleted by magnetic separation and a small fraction 1 l of the cleavage product containing supernatant are removed for subsequent MS identification and quantitation as shown in .

The purification of LF and LTx in a 96 well microtiter plate format is provided in in which magnetic antibody beads are provided as detailed in Example 2 and bind LF from a sample per Example 3. The beads with LF bound are washed twice in PBS TW per Example 2 with a final wash in deionized water. LF is then eluted in deionized water and beads with bound LF are transferred to the polymerase chain reaction PCR plate and incubated in 40 l buffer for between 2 and 21 hours at 37 C. to allow the cleavage reaction to proceed. 1 l of cleavage reaction dilution with a proteinaceous internal standard is analyzed after 2 hours and 21 hours of incubation by MALDI TOF mass spectrometry. LF is detectable in this manner indicating that anti LF antibodies do not interfere with the active site for the cleavage reaction in LF. In the event that interference were to occur the mass spectrum as detailed in the lower left hand corner of is anticipated. Non interference by the antibody was predicted to provide a mass spectrum showing a depletion of cleavage substrate and intensity increase for masses associated with cleavage fragments as shown in the left middle portion of .

Protective antigen antibody for LTx retrieval begins with PA mAb that is specific for the distal portion of PA63 kilodalton as depicted in where the antibody bonds to PA63 remote from the PA lethal factor LTx interface. The PA mAb bound LTx is then reacted with a proteinaceous substrate or lethal factor where lethal factor enzymatic activity is detected by mass spectrometry as shown in right middle. An attempt to retrieve LTx with LF mAb requires that the LF mAb bind a protective antigen epitope distinct from the interaction interface between the protective antigen and lethal factor exposing LTx bound to LF antibody to a proteinaceous substrate for LF and allows for detection of LF enzymatic activity by mass spectrometry as shown in lower right to determine the efficacy of the present invention to detect LTx.

Four substrate peptides are compared for potential use in an inventive process. represent mass spectra of four different substrates LF1 1 RRKKVYPYPMEPTIA Seq ID. No. 14 LF 2 RRKKVYPYPMEPTIAK Seq ID. No. 3 LF 3 SPARRKKVYPYPMENPTPRSTPSPT Seq ID. No. 4 LF 4 SKARRKKVYPYPMENFPP STARPT Seq ID. No. 5 . shows the mass spectrum for LF 1 that is based on a FRET substrate optimized RET substrate optimized by Turk et al. 2004 11 60 66 LF 2 includes one additional lysine on the carboxy terminus is a mass spectrum for substrate LF 2 that includes one additional lysine on the carboxy terminus are mass spectra for substrates LF 3 and LF 4 respectively that include 10 additional amino acids based on the extended consensus sequence of MAPKK. For these reactions 10 ng LF is incubated with 5 nmoles of each substrate in 200 l buffer for 2 hours at 37 C. sampled at times 5 10 15 30 45 60 90 120 and 240 minutes for MALDI TOF analysis with relative quantification. At 120 minutes 1 l of each reaction is analyzed without ISTD peptides to acquire the spectra shown in . is a plot of the area ratio of the peaks for the amino terminal product peptides of relative to an ISTD peptide over time giving the relative rates of reaction for each peptide.

500 pg of LF are retrieved with LF MABs without affecting the ability of LF to enzymatically cleave substrate LF 4 in as demonstrated in . A like amount of LF 500 pg complexed with PA PA LF or LTx is also retrieved with LF MABs then mixed with buffer and substrate peptide LF 4 and incubated for 16 hours at 37 C. consistent with the procedures detailed in the above examples to obtain the mass spectrum of . LTx containing 500 pg of LF is retrieved with PA MABsMABs consistent with the above examples followed by mixing with buffer and LF 4 substrate peptide and incubated for 16 hours at 37 C. to obtain the mass spectrum of . The spectra of confirm the ability to purify LF with LF MABs and LTx with either LF MABs or PA MABs. These spectra establish that more substrate is consumed and more cleavage product peptide produced by LTx bound by PA MABs relative to LF MABs.

LF or LF PA are isolated from a patient serum sample by incubation with MABs for 40 min. LF bound MABs are then washed twice in PBS T and once in dHO to remove any unbound LF and serum components. For these reactions 10 ng LF is incubated with 5 nmoles of synthetic peptide substrate SKARRKKVYPMENFPPSTARPT Seq. No. 1 in 200 l buffer over 2 hours at 37 C. and sampled at times 5 10 15 30 45 60 90 120 and 240 minutes. A small fraction of the cleavage product is removed for subsequent MS identification and quantitation.

A small fraction 1 l of the peptide substrate cleavage reaction solution is removed and mixed with an internal standard ITSD . An ionization matrix such as Cyano 4 hydroxycinnamic acid CHCA is added and the sample spotted on a MALDI TOF plate in triplicate. The spectra is obtained in positive ion mode with delayed extraction on a suitable mass spectrometer such as a Voyager DE Pro mass spectrometer Perceptive Biosystems Framingham Mass. equipped with a 337 nm nitrogen laser and a single stage reflector. In this case mass spectra were collected from 750 to 3200 mass charge m z in MS positive ion reflectron mode on the Applied Biosystems 4700 and 4800 Proteomics Analyzers Framingham Mass. . These instruments use a nitrogen laser at 337 nm and each final mass spectrum was an average of 2400 laser shots. As the sequence and mass of the peptide substrate are known the cleavage products are readily identified.

The procedure of Examples 2 and 3 is repeated with polyclonal rabbit and macaque antibody as shown in the left panel mass spectra of . Magnetic antibody beads are prepared from serum of rabbit and macaques immunized with recombinant LF. These are compared to the LF MABs with the mouse monoclonal LF antibodies bound. The results show that the mouse monoclonal targets a single epitope that does not interfere with catalytic activity of LF since it can still easily cleave the peptide substrate as evident from the large product peptide at 1607.8 m z. The rabbit polyclonal which has many antibodies to several epitopes also does not interfere with the catalytic activity although the cleaved product peak intensity is less than that using the LF MABs. Conversely the macaque antibodies significantly neutralize the catalytic activity of LF very little substrate is cleaved and peptide products peaks have a reduced intensity.

To determine activity 500 pg of LF in complex with PA PA LF or LTx is placed in buffer and with no MABs peptide substrate LF 4 per and incubated for 16 hours at 37 C. with the resulting mass spectra being depicted in . This experiment is repeated with 500 pg of LF retrieved by LF MABs and mixed with buffer and substrate LF 4 in amounts as detailed above and incubated again at 16 hours at 37 C. with the resulting mass spectrum shown in . This experiment is again repeated with 500 pg LF only in buffer and incubated for 16 hours at 37 C. with LF 4 peptide substrate no MABs with the resulting mass spectrum shown in . indicate that under like conditions and in the presence of the same peptide substrate LTx alone had greater activity than the LF retrieved from LF MABs which in turn had greater activity than LF alone.

The mass spectrum of the LF cleavage reaction is provided in for a procedure detailed with respect to . The desired cleavage product mass 1607 m z is quantitated by ratio comparison to an isotopically labeled peptide of 7 mass units higher than the target at 1614 m z that will be added as an ITSD to normalize spot to spot signal intensity differences. shows magnified mass regions of the spectrum showing isotopic distribution. The spectra from three spots from one sample are shown in indicating the varied intensity differences. The area of the isotopic peaks for the 1607 m z LF specific target cleavage peptide analyte divided by the area isotopic peaks of the labeled ISTD gives the area ratio which allows absolute quantitation when plotted vs. concentration and normalizes the spot to spot area differences as shown in . A plot of the logof LF in ng ml versus the logof the area ratio is plotted as shown in . A sigmoidal fit and interpolation allows calculation of the concentration of cleavage peptide present. A standard curve is constructed by plotting the amount of LF pg versus the area ratio. Unknowns are calculated from the slope. Detection limits at 2 and 21 hours incubation 20 l LF and 200 l LF with an incubation time for 21 hours is summarized in .

Alternatively a peptide substrate that contains a fluorophore and a quenching molecule on opposing sides of the scissile bond will be employed to allow for detection of an increase in fluorescence following cleavage by LF or LTx. 25 l of a 6 M solution of peptide substrate Cou NleKKKKVLPIQLNAATDK QSY 35 GG NH Seq. No. 10 in assay buffer will be added to 30 l of the isolated and concentrated LF or LTx obtained from a biological sample as described. Cummings R. T. et al. 2002 99 6603 6606 . The cleavage reaction will be allowed to proceed for 2 hours and terminated at room temperature by the addition of 25 l of 4 mM ortho phenanthroline 40 mM EDTA. The resulting fluorescence will be read on an appropriate fluorometer excitation 355 nm emission 460 nm . The fluorescence value will be compared to a standard curve to determine the level of LF activity per unit reaction time.

Optionally a continuous assay protocol will be performed to identify and quantitate LF or LTx isolated from a biological sample. A reaction tube comprised of 25 l of a 6 M solution of peptide substrate Cou NleKKKKVLPIQLNAATDK QSY 35 GG NH Seq. No. 10 in assay buffer will be added to 30 l of the isolated and concentrated LF or LTx obtained from a biological sample and the reaction monitored continuously for 2 hours on an appropriate plate based fluorometer excitation 355 nm emission 460 nm . A standard curve comprised of increasing known quantities of LF or LTx will be present on the same plate and read simultaneously as the unknown samples. The rate of fluoresce increase of each unknown sample will be compared to the standard curve to determine the amount of LF activity present.

Three rhesus macaques are exposed to experimental infection using airborne spores of and monitored for onset of inhalation infection rate of infection progression and correlation with physiological complications. Biological samples of blood serum 5 l are taken from each animal prior to exposure to anthrax spores. Mass spectra of control reactions by the present inventive method demonstrate no observable background cleavage product at time zero as shown in lower left panel. Each animal is monitored and biological samples of serum are obtained each day. Each biological sample is assayed by the present inventive method for cleavage of synthetic peptide substrate SKARRKKVYPMENFPPSTARPT Seq. No. 1 m z 2820.5 . Cleavage products are identified and quantitated by MALDI TOF mass spectrometry. At day 2 significant levels of LF are present in the biological samples as demonstrated by increasing levels of cleavage products at m z 1232.8 and m z 1606.7 as shown in right panel. The larger fragment will be used for quantitative purposes by the inclusion of and ISTD seven mass units higher than the target m z 1614 . Levels of LF at day 2 are higher in animals that demonstrate increased survival time. Animal 1 shows the shortest time to mortality which correlates with the lowest level of LF activity. Animal 3 shows the longest time to mortality with a correspondingly high level of serum LF activity.

The inventive method is used to determine levels of LTx in rhesus macaque following a similar inhalation mediated infection by . Beads coated with MABs specific for PA that neither interfere with the interaction of PA with LF nor interfere with the catalytic activity of LF with respect to the target synthetic peptide substrates are employed. Comparisons between the levels of free LF and LTx are simultaneously obtained with the same biological sample at days 2 and 3 are shown in . The levels of free LF will be lower earlier in the infection cycle. At death the levels of LTx increase greater than 10 fold and are present at nearly equal molar levels to free LF indicating that severe toxemia is proportional to increased relative levels of LTx as shown in .

A murine model of vaccine induced protection are employed essentially as described by Peachman K. K. et al. 2006 74 794 797. Female CBA J mice 6 weeks old 15 group are purchased from the Jackson Laboratory Bar Harbor Me. and maintained with food and water ad libitum. Positive control mice are immunized by i.m. injection with 20 g of rPA mixed with alum. Animals are immunized at week 0 and boosted at weeks 2 and 4. Animals are bled at 2 week intervals and sera analyzed for rPA specific immunoglobulin G IgG by ELISA or for toxin neutralizing antibodies as measured by the dilution of antiserum required for 50 reduction in cellular cytotoxicity ED . At week 9 post immunization the mice are challenged by the intranasal route with 234 000 spores 10 50 lethal doses of Ames spores administered in a 50 l volume in the nasal cavity with a pipette. Biological samples of blood serum are obtained at day zero and each day until mortality or a maximum of 14 days post infection. Samples are processed by the present inventive method and subjected to identification and quantitation by MALDI TOF. Prior immunization results in decreased levels of free LF in the serum of both survivors and non survivors at mortality as shown in upper panel. However the levels of free LF will generally be much lower in vaccinated survivors than the deceased group. Similarly levels of free LF are lower in deceased animals that have been vaccinated relative to the survivors group as shown in lower panel.

Biological samples of whole blood serum plasma or pleural fluid is obtained upon hospitalization or as early as possible following a known or possible exposure to anthrax. Quantitation of biological sample LF or LTx levels is performed using the inventive method employing MABs specific for LF or PA and analyzed using MALDI TOF MS. Levels of LF in excess of 200 ng ml are detected in plasma or serum at day 4 post symptomatic as shown in . These levels are confirmed in patient pleural fluid. Plasma serum samples are obtained each day following hospitalization and levels of LF will decrease with time as also shown in right panel. Free LF levels in plasma serum and pleural fluid decrease at a similar rate also as shown in right panel. Similarly levels of LTx will be detected at day 4 post symptomatic and will be monitored with time. infection is confirmed in right panel using traditional diagnostic techniques at day 8 post symptomatic indicating that the present inventive method identifies infection at a much earlier time point such that proper treatment may begin sooner increasing chances for survival.

Synthesis of peptide substrates is performed as described generally by Cummings R. T. et al. 2002 99 6603 6606. Briefly an ABI Model 433A peptide synthesizer is employed using FastMoc chemistry including increased acylation times on a 250 M scale. Suitable reagents will be obtained from PE Applied Biosystems Polymer Laboratories Amherst Mass. and Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. .

Molecular reporter groups are optionally added to a peptide substrate on resin following peptide synthesis. Incorporation of materials at the N terminus will be accomplished by labeling with the commercially available N hydroxysuccinimidyl esters. Typical reactions will be performed on a 20 100 mol resin scale with a 1 10 fold excess of the label in a minimal volume 1 3 ml of N methylpyrrolidinone overnight. Incorporation of the two reporters for the FRET substrates will be accomplished by first labeling the N terminus. The second reporter will then be introduced by selectively removing the Lys Mtt protecting group CHClwith 2 trifluoroacetic acid and 3 triisopropylsilane room temperature 45 min resin washing and reaction with the label as described above. Dabcyl Edans FRET substrates are commercially available from www.emdbiosciences.com novabiochem and www.anaspec.com.

After incorporation of appropriate reporters the resin will be washed with NMP acetic acid CHCl and methanol 3 times each dried briefly in vacuo and the peptides cleaved with 95 trifluoroacetic acid 2.5 HO 2.5 triisopropylsilane for 90 min. After precipitation from cold diethyl ether the crude peptides will be purified on a Waters PrepLC 4000 system with a 25 400 mm 300 DeltaPak Ccolumn and a CHCN HO gradient both with 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid . Purified peptides will then be lyophilized and their molecular weight confirmed by mass spectral analysis. All peptides will be 95 pure by RP HPLC A .

Screening of LF inhibitor candidates will be performed in mice employing a toxemia model as described by Shoop et al. 2005 102 7958 7963. BALB c mice weight 22 g age 8 wk will be used. 32 mice will be allocated at random to one of four groups and each of the four groups then allocated at random to treatment with candidate LF inhibitor at 0 1 10 or 30 mg kg three times a day t.i.d. 0.25 1 and 3 hours relative to administration of LF and PA with vehicle. At time 0 all mice will be coinjected i.v. with 100 g of recombinant LF and 100 g of recombinant PA in a 150 l saline mixture into the mouse tail vein and blood serum samples will be obtained for analysis. 10 l of murine serum will be subjected to analysis by the inventive method and LF activity measured by MALDI TOF as described above.

Screening of LF inhibitor candidates will be performed in rabbits following infection with Ames spores as described by Shoop et al. 2005 102 7958 7963. Dutch belted DB rabbits weight 2 kg age 16 wk purchased from Covance Princeton N.J. will be used. Six DB rabbits will be dosed s.c. with LF inhibitor at 100 mg kg t.i.d. in saline for 7 days and six rabbits dosed s.c. with saline at the same times. Two hours after the first dose all rabbits will be challenged s.c. with 10Ames spores and observed for 21 days. At time 0 and each day for 21 days blood serum will be obtained. 10 l of murine serum from each time point will be subjected to analysis by the inventive method and LF activity measured by MALDI TOF as described above.

Various modifications of the present invention in addition to those shown and described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art of the above description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

Patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These patents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual application or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

