---

title: Network security scanner for enterprise protection
abstract: A method of monitoring levels of security conformity and preparedness of a plurality of network connected computing machines, obtains a report by remotely scanning the machines in segments. The machines might already be connected to commercial security software and a patch dispenser. The report includes definition dates and any files quarantined by the commercial security software, patch-management-software communication present and the patches received. The method uses the report and software (not installed on the scanned machines) to produce a Network Security Scanner for Enterprise Protection output to perform a security-preparedness audit of the scanned machines. The audit non-intrusively ascertains. If the scanned machines conform to user-defined fields and policies, and assists in selective security updating of the machines. The scanning, unrecognized by the scanned machines may be configured to suit their OS, and done periodically as desired. A computer readable medium executing the method is included.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08850587&OS=08850587&RS=08850587
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 08850587
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20070504
---
The present invention generally relates to remote access monitoring of computing and related machines. More specifically this invention relates to a system and computer program product for monitoring a plurality of computing machines in a company network to ascertain whether the machines are up to date with the company security policies and needs.

Ensuring system security in computing machines is heavily dependent on the proper use of an up to date version of antivirus protection antivirus signature and a reliable system patch environment. Ensuring proper security of the various computing machines in a company is of paramount importance since the computing machines are exposed to a high level of software security vulnerability. Several types of vulnerability are known including buffer overrun privilege elevation and validation flaw to name a few. The vulnerability could be caused by any virus worm. Trojan horse or any other malicious effort from intruders. The vulnerabilities are highly undesirable and cause deleterious consequences to the company or organization. In situations where a multitude of processing units and computing platforms within the network of a company need to be monitored as to their readiness for offering up to date security and protection there is no known simple mechanism or software available to check whether all the machines in the network are up to date with the company security policies and to provide a combined report of necessary data.

It is known to use antivirus solutions and patch management to address issues of network security in individual and group connected computing machines which might be part of a network. Most of the antivirus solutions available in the market might have a built in audit tool which is at best not effective in taking total stock of the defects with the clients for certain purposes. The ineffectiveness of the available antivirus solutions is because the built in audit tool will not detect the security preparedness of the client machine if the administrator privileged users stop the corresponding services in their workstation. Also the report generated by available tools does not contain the complete information needed by the security administrator. To continue to obtain a full scan of computers in a single segment it also requires significant time sometimes more than twenty five minutes for engineers striving to have control over virus defects in the system in initiate corrective actions. There have been situations where a dedicated system security or an IT engineer was deployed and had to spend almost a whole day for checking the antivirus console and for auditing the systems but still was unable to have full control. This setback and the increasing trend of virus incidents in many companies has resulted in a major negative observation in internal audits adversely impacting on efficiency and productivity while impeding an effort to fix these issues.

It is known that a security patch is a broadly released fix for a specific product addressing a security vulnerability. A security patch is often described as having a severity rating which actually refers to the MSRC Microsoft Security Response Center severity rating of the vulnerability that the security patch addresses. Patch management is the process of controlling the deployment and maintenance of interim software releases into production environments. It helps to maintain operational efficiency and effectiveness overcome security vulnerabilities and maintain the stability of the production environment.

The rise of widespread worms and malicious code targeting known vulnerabilities on unpatched systems and the resultant downtime and expense they bring is probably the biggest reason so many organizations are focusing on patch management. Along with these threats increasing concern around governance and regulatory compliance e.g. HIPAA Sarbanes Oxley has pushed enterprises to gain better control and oversight of their information assets. Also considering the addition in increasingly interconnected partners and customers and the rise of broadband connections and remote workers there results the perfect scenario that pushes patch management to the forefront of the list of security priorities of many organizations.

Patch management in certain scenarios is improper or inefficient since it might be based on lack of critical information and lack of the Microsoft Window Software Update Services SUS configuration in client computers that are running on Windows operating system. It has been observed that SUS is not installed or not configured properly in a considerable number of computer machines. The SUS console is generally not effective and there is no software available to find out the SUS configuration details in a multiplicity of computers which are part of a network. Sometimes there are issues because of an increasing trend of removing an IMG IT Management Group specific user account resulting in improper updating of patches. There is another scenario wherein eventhough the SUS client is configured properly when the SUS server machine pushes the patches it may not update the client machine since the IMG user account was deleted or its password was changed. There is no easy provision to find out if the user account was indeed deleted or if the password was changed whereby patch update is prevented.

Managing updates and patches for all the applications and operating system versions used even in a small company is fairly complicated and the situation only becomes more complex when additional platforms availability requirements and remote offices and workers are factored in.

An organization or enterprise that cannot determine and maintain a required level of trust within its operating systems and application software might have a number of security vulnerabilities which if left unaddressed could lead to a loss of revenue and intellectual property. Minimizing this threat requires the availability of properly configured systems use the latest security software and installation of the recommended software patches and updates.

Accordingly in a scenario where there is a large number of computers required to be monitored by an IT Management Group of a company to collect security status details on a periodical or daily basis the monitoring and control becomes a formidable task in the absence of a system to address the issues efficiently.

Norton antivirus installations provided by Symantec are known to be commonly used for security purposes in privately owned computers as well as a host of computing machines owned by a bigger company and deployed in different geographic regions. Tracking of Norton Antivirus defects and lack of upgrades across computing machines in different geographic locations become a real concern when the virus defects keep increasing in number and invasive ability and the network engineers need to struggle to fix these issues in a timely manner. Even though Symantec antivirus application offers a console the console provided for Norton antivirus installations is not effective for some purposes. Use of the Symantec console is at best time consuming and it is not reliable for all requirements of the IT Management Group IMG in an organization.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 108 782 issued on Aug. 22 2000 to Fletcher et al teaches distributed remote monitoring of network traffic which uses distributed nodes to collect traffic statistics. The statistics are forwarded to collectors which compile the statistics to create combined views of network performance. U.S. Pat. No. 6 892 227 B1 issued to Elwell et al on May 10 2005 teaches system method and computer program product for analyzing a network utilizing a host controller zone controller interface. U.S. Pat. No. 7 062 783 B1 issued to Joiner on Jun. 13 2006 teaches a system and method for business rule based network services utilizing a network wherein initially information relating to a plurality of computers is collected utilizing a plurality of agents coupled to the computers via a network.

Some of the earlier patents that are referenced above generally teach different methods or software solutions to scan analyze collect traffic statistics and detect intrusions in a network. Some of the other earlier patents relate to detection of network vulnerability through a database of security vulnerabiities or through deploying vulnerability information in a client computer teach different methods to manage a client computer or detect unauthorized entry to a client computer in a client server environment. Yet other prior patents teach different methods to check prevent or diagnose the viruses infected on a computer in the network.

Provided herein is a Network Security Scanner for Enterprise Protection NSSEP which comprises software developed for the IT Management Group of a company for their daily or periodical monitoring of remote computers for security vulnerability and selective patch management. The present software can be implemented across geographic locations with no software installation needed on the monitored computers and can drastically improve the virus prevention process and engineer productivity resulting in considerable cost saving to the organization. Any medium or large organization would benefit from a single solution as taught herein to secure and patch manage their computers in an unobtrusive manner in a known network.

Ensuring that every system is free from vulnerabilities is a challenge and the prime responsibility as well as of paramount importance to an IT Management Group of any organization. The efficacy of system security depends on the up to date antivirus version antivirus signature and the system patch environment. In known art some mechanisms exist to automate the updating of antivirus signatures and system patches. However there is no software available to check whether a computer machine is up to date with the company security policies or to audit the systems in a network with respect to antivirus solution and Windows Server Update Services client status and provide a combined report of necessary data from a multiplicity of computing machines owned by the company and situated in remote locations NSSEP as described herein is an in house solution that meets all IT Management Group requirements for most enterprises or companies to ensure conformity with user defined fields and policies and ensure network security without any software installation of the monitored machines. The NSSEP is compatible with Windows based operating systems.

The present invention provides a system method and computer program product that are provided for remotely accessing and scanning the computing machines incognito in the network to ascertain whether those are up to date with the company security policies. The present NSSEP is a software system that scans the remote computers by each segment and generates a report that perfectly caters the IT Management Group s requirements. In a typical application the present NSSEP system in a single application would require just two minutes to scan a subnet with accurate results.

The present NSSEP software as described herein provides a very high accuracy and a very high level of performance. A command prompt compactable version of this software can be used to schedule the scan operation and that is preferably executed through accessing the remote computers in batch files.

The invention in one form resides in a method of remotely monitoring levels of security preparedness of a plurality of computing machines for obtaining a report with intent to assess and selectively upgrade the security preparedness of the computing machines the computing machines being already connected to a receive security from a commercial security software comprising the steps of viewing and dividing a list of the plurality of computing machines into segments for remote access selectively accessing computing machines in selected ones of the segments remotely scanning the accessed machines in segments for obtaining a report of data including information relating to files quarantined by the commercial security software and information relating to Software Update Services client present in the accessed machines and generating a NSSEP report using said data to ensure conformity with user defined security fields and policies present in the scanned computing machines and selectively perform a security preparedness audit of the scanned computing machines accessed through the segments.

The invention in a second form is slightly modified and resides in a method used by a network administrator for remotely monitoring levels of security preparedness and patch management of a plurality of computing machines for obtaining a report with intent to assess and selectively upgrade the security preparedness of the computing machines wherein the computing machines may already be connected to a receive commercial security software from one or more vendors. The modified method includes the steps of viewing and dividing a list of the plurality of computing machines into for remote access selectively accessing and scanning computing machines in selected ones of the segments from the scanning obtaining a report of data including information relating to file quarantined by said commercial security software and information relating to Software Update Services client present in the scanned computing machines as well as implemented patches generating a NSSEP report using the data to perform a security preparedness audit of the scanned computing machines in the segments and selectively initiating corrective action to update security preparedness levels and implement patch management of the scanned computing machines as required.

In another form the invention resides in method of remotely monitoring levels of security preparedness and patch management of a plurality of network connected computing machines for an enterprise IT Management Group to obtain a report with intent to assess and selectively upgrade the security preparedness of the computing machines the computing machines being already selectively connected to receive security protection from at least one commercial security software vendor comprising the steps of viewing and dividing a list of said plurality of computing machines into segments for remote access selectively accessing computing machines in selected ones of the segments with no separate installation of any additional software in any of the plurality of the computing machines remotely scanning the accessed selected computing machines in the segments without network disturbance or performance issues including the step of configuring the steps of viewing and remotely scanning the computing machines with users of the scanned computing machines remaining unaware of the scanning for obtaining a report of data including information relating to files quarantined by the commercial security software and information relating to patch management software present in the selected computing machines as well as implemented patches and generating a NSSEP report using said data to perform a security preparedness audit of the scanned computing machines in the segments wherein said NSSEP report selectively includes required fields data of different software vendors products and selectively initiating corrective action to update security preparedness levels and selectively implement patch management of the scanned computing machines as desired by the IT management Group. By implementing the NSSEP and applying it to a plurality of client machines that need to be monitored complete workstation security and asset management can be achieved. The present approach can also be configured for pushing of files and applications and taking the back up of data from remote client machines. A command prompt compactable version of NSSEP is also available that can be scheduled and executed through a batch file.

The invention also includes a computer readable medium encoded with data instruction which when executed by a computing platform results in execution of a method as recited above.

The present NSSEP enables achieving an efficient audit of systems and client machines present in the network for example LAN and checks whether the client machines are up to date with the company security policies and provides a combined report of all necessary data. In one form the NSSEP has the following features including functions and advantages 

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below to be understood in conjunction with the accompanying figures that illustrate by way of example the implementation of embodiments of the invention. While the invention is described in connection with such embodiments it should be understood that the invention is not limited to any specific embodiment. On the contrary the scope of the invention is limited only by the appended claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternative modifications and equivalents. For the purpose of example numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention.

The present invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the present invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

The illustration in shows an exemplary central command server that initiates scanning of remote computing machines which are provided with commercial antivirus and security coverage e.g. Symantec and some of which might be part of one network or another. Some of the remote computing machines might include those located in different geographical regions. The remote computing machines are accessed expediently in segments to ultimately generate a consolidated report using the present NSSEP.

The software system of the NSSEP consists of an Executable Application and a Service. The network administrator or the IT engineer runs the Executable service exe from the central command server giving the IP address range in a thread as one of the inputs. The Executable takes the first IP Address from the given input list and starts the login to the remote machine. Once logged into the remote machine the Executable tries to start the service by assuming that the service is already deployed there. This is done to improve the performance by avoiding repeated deployment in subsequent runs. If however the service is not present then the process installs the service and starts it. From this point onwards the execution shifts to the service and the communication is from the server to the client. Now the Executable closes the connection and reconnects later to the port of the remote computing machine to get the data. Once the service confirms that the Executable starts listening to its port it writes the data to the port in the required format. When it is certain that the port is read by the Executable then the service closes the port and the service stops and disconnects by itself. Finally the Executable gets the data closes the socket and returns back to the thread. The thread might execute a group of fifty IP addresses. The same procedure will be followed till the end of IP address in the given segment and at the end the output will be written preferably into an excel format file as a report.

The report generated by this NSSEP software preferably includes the client computer details. Anti virus details including Parent server information and Definition whether way files are quarantined Software Update Services client configuration and the Operating System details. With the help of this NSSEP tool and a report generated therefrom the IT Management Group in an organization is able to reduce the virus defects drastically. From the report an engineer can identify non Windows machines in a network and can also check whether the computing machines present in each development center has the client specific Operating system. By the present approach virus defects are proactively monitored so that corrective actions can be taken promptly.

Expediently the present approach uses a solution that scans the network computers segment by segment and provides a combined report of antivirus version the definition date whether any files are quarantined and the Software Update Services client configuration along with other necessary data which are crucial to ensure that the systems are secure. The solution generates a snap shot report of the security preparedness of the client computer network which shall be used for checking security audit.

The present approach uses software which is scalable and can be extended to monitor any kind of remotely located computing machine. By extending the present software a modified report can be generated which supports complete Workstation Security Management including file sharing the number of user accounts password protection details as well as the Workstation Asset Management including hardware and software identification. By extending this software it is also possible to retrieve the details of patches installed or the missing patches in a remote computer. By using a modified version of the present approach it is also possible to achieve pushing of files and applications server push and client pull and obtaining of back up of data from remote machines. The present approach can also be extended to scan back bone specific machines in different segments in one shot.

The present NSSEP software in one form is known to have improved the productively on antivirus and patch management to 80 and also contributed to accomplish a near six sigma level of virus prevention process and patch management with great benefits.

The prior art console provided by different software vendors which provides the built in antivirus audit function is not as effective as the present NSSEP software since the prior art console does not detect all the vulnerabilities in all the client machines in the network. For example the report generated by Symantec console does not contain critical information required by the IT Management Group as explained herein. Additionally it takes typically more than twenty five minutes for a full scan of computers in a single segment when the Symantee system is used. In contrast the NSSEP software displays 100 accuracy and high performance and finishes each scan typically in two minutes.

The present NSSEP also has a command prompt compactable version which is a unique feature compared to other solutions the market possesses. Parallel solutions in the market include tools like IPsan utility and Winpeap application which when can only provide MAC address Machine name or OS name but do not provide a full spectrum service as the present NSSEP software does.

The exemplary software system consists of an MFC Application Executable in the server side and a service that runs in the remote client machine. The IT engineer runs the Executable for example one that is named as NssepServer.exe from the server machine giving the IP address range as one of the inputs. By way of example only illustrates fields present within the MFC Application Executable.

The Executable takes the first IP Address from the list and starts trying to login to that machine. If the machine is not present or not able to be accessed a corresponding message will be written on the report. Once logged in to the remote machine the Executable tries to start the service by assuming that the service is already deployed there. This is done to improve the performance by avoiding any delay in deploying the service in subsequent runs. If the service is not present then the NssepServer.exe copies the service to the client machine and starts it. The same procedure will be followed till the end of IP address in the given segment and at the end the output will be written into an excel format file.

NssepServer.exe is executed by passing an IP range as one of its parameters. A new thread is started for IP addresses for a group of 50 for example . Each IP address will perform the execution of all the above mentioned modules. The IP addresses of all the machines present in the network will be stored in a text file for the Executable s reference.

The server modules are not hardware modules but merely software elements installed with the purpose of initiating scanning of the client machines and obtaining an NSSEP report for purposes of monitoring the security preparedness level of the client machines from several angles as described herein.

The IP address validation module is responsible for validating the following details for any given IP address 

In the flow chart of after obtaining all the required data the output data is formulated as per requirement. A new port is opened to write data to the server to read. Thereafter the port is closed and the execution is handed back to the server.

Upon starting the service the module looks for the client windows registry and also executes a few DOS commands as below locally 

If there are any exception or unknown errors happening while reading the data then a proper message will be included with the data.

From this point onwards the RemoteRead module taken control of the service and at the end stops and un registers the service.

It is noted that products from Symantec such as LiveState Client Management Suite are expensive and do not always meet the requirements of all IT management groups. When such other products are deployed it would result in an additional cost to the organization in that they have to push patches to make up for the deficiencies.

The present invention includes a computer readable medium encoded with software data instruction which when executed by a computing platform would result in execution of a method as described and claimed herein. Different embodiments of the present subject matter can be implemented in software which can be used in any suitable computing environment. The embodiments of the present subject matter are also operable in a number of general purpose or special purpose computing environments or processors or processing units. Some computing environments include personal computers general purpose computers server computers hand held devices including but not limited to telephones and personal digital assistants PDAs or all types laptop devices multi processors microprocessors set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network computers minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments and the like to execute code stored on a computer readable medium or computer memory elements. The embodiments of the present subject matter may be implemented in part or in whole as machine executable instructions such as program modules that are executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like to perform particular tasks or to implement particular abstract data types. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local or remote storage devices.

Computer memory elements can include any suitable memory device s for storing data and machine readable instructions such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM hard drive removable media drive for handling compact disks CDs digital video disks DVDs diskettes magnetic tape cartridges memory cards Memory Sticks and the like chemical storage biological storage and other types of data storage.

 Processor or processing unit as referred to hereinabove includes any type of computational circuit such as but not limited to a microprocessor a microcontroller a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor a reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor a very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor explicitly parallel instruction computing EPIC microprocessor a graphics processor a digital signal processor or any other type of processor or processing circuit. The term also includes embedded controllers such as generic or programmable logic devices or arrays application specific integrated circuits single chip computers smart cards and the like.

In the foregoing detailed description of embodiments of the invention various features are grouped together in a single exemplary embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description of embodiments of the invention with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. It is understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. It is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description above. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. where used are merely labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

