---

title: Distributing printed documents
abstract: A system for distributing printed documents comprises print device logic comprising a Web Services server, wherein the print device logic is configured to send one or more Web Services messages that indicate attributes of a print device; sender print manager logic comprising a first Web Services client that is coupled over a network to the printer logic; wherein the sender print manager logic is configured to store the attributes, to request print history information from the print device, to determine one or more preferred print devices for one or more users based on the print history information, and to store a mapping of identifiers of the users in association with identifiers of the preferred print devices; wherein the sender print manager logic is configured to select one or more of the preferred print devices based on the mapping, and to initiate one or more print jobs to print a document on the selected preferred print devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08144349&OS=08144349&RS=08144349
owner: Eicoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08144349
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070111
---
The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In work environments with networked computers printers are often geographically distributed in the environment. Further computer users typically use many different software applications and one user of one computer in the network cannot easily determine what applications are in use by another user of a second computer in the network.

In this environment a first user may encounter difficulty distributing a particular electronic file or document to one or more other users. As a hypothetical example assume that one user Alice desires to distribute an electronic slide presentation to Bob and Carol. Alice has prepared the presentation using a hypothetical client based presentation software program called SuperSlide. Alice invites Bob and Carol to a meeting and wants Bob and Carol to view the presentation before the meeting or have a printed copy of the presentation available at the meeting. However Alice does not know if Bob or Carol have SuperSlide on their computers and SuperSlide is not a server based program. If Alice sends the SuperSlide presentation to Bob and Carol as a file attachment to an e mail message Bob and Carol may be unable to view the presentation. Alice needs a way to provide a viewable or readable electronic document to Bob and Carol without knowing what software Bob and Carol have available.

Various portable document formats have been proposed to solve this problem including Adobe Portable Document Format PDF from Adobe Systems Inc. San Jose Calif. However PDF and similar formats all require receiving users such as Bob and Carol to have a document reader installed and available on their machine.

In operating systems such as MICROSOFT WINDOWS XP a user can install on a client computer driver software for multiple printers including networked printers. The user can instruct the operating system that one of the printers is a default printer. Print requests are directed to the default printer unless the user specifies a different printer at the time of printing using a print dialog or other facility of the operating system and its applications.

Techniques for distributing printed documents are provided. In an embodiment a system for distributing printed documents comprises print device logic comprising a Web Services server the print device logic is configured to send one or more Web Services messages that indicate attributes of a print device sender print manager logic comprising a first Web Services client that is coupled over a network to the printer logic the sender print manager logic is configured to store the attributes to request print history information from the print device to determine one or more preferred print devices for one or more users based on the print history information and to store a mapping of identifiers of the users in association with identifiers of the preferred print devices the sender print manager logic is configured to select one or more of the preferred print devices based on the mapping and to initiate one or more print jobs to print a document on the selected preferred print devices.

In one feature the sender print manager logic is configured to request a job history from the print device to extract at least one user identifier of a user of the print device from the job history and to determine a preferred print device for the user based on the job history and the at least one user identifier.

In another feature the sender print manager logic is configured to request a job history from the print device to extract at least one print ticket from the job history to extract at least one user identifier of a user of the print device from the job ticket and to determine a preferred print device for the user based on the job ticket and the at least one user identifier.

In a further feature the sender print manager logic is configured to determine the one or more preferred print devices for the one or more users based on the print history by identifying that print device to which a particular user printed most often within a specified time period.

In yet another feature the sender print manager logic is configured to determine the one or more preferred print devices for the one or more users based on the print history by identifying that print device to which a particular user printed most often within a specified time period and based on how recently that print device was used. In still another feature the sender print manager logic is configured as an independent service.

In a further feature mail client logic is coupled to the sender print manager logic and the mail client logic is configured to request for a specified one of the users a preferred print device based on the mapping to initiate the one or more print jobs to print a document on the preferred print device and to send a notification message to the specified one of the users about the one or more print jobs.

In yet another feature mail client logic is coupled to the sender print manager logic and the mail client logic is configured to request for a specified one of the users a preferred print device based on the mapping to initiate the one or more print jobs to print a document on the preferred print device and to send a message to the specified one of the users identifying the preferred print device.

In an embodiment mail client logic is coupled to the sender print manager logic and the mail client logic is configured to perform upon execution sending a message to the specified one of the users and the message comprises a hyperlink receiving a selection of the hyperlink invoking and displaying an HTML document corresponding to the hyperlink and stored on an Intranet server that is coupled to the network and the HTML document comprises a list of print devices that are available in the network receiving a selection of one print device from among the list initiating a print job to print the document on the selected print device and sending a message to the specified one of the users identifying the selected print device.

In a further feature the system includes receiver print manager logic comprising a second Web Services client that is coupled over the network to the sender print manager logic and the receiver print manager logic is configured to perform upon execution storing in the mapping an identifier of the specified one of the users in association with an identifier of the selection of the one print device initiating one or more print jobs to print a document on the selected print device.

In an embodiment a computer implemented method comprises receiving a request to provide a printed electronic document to one or more computer users accessing a stored table of print devices in a computer network and the print devices host a Web Services module generating and sending to each of the print devices one or more Web Services requests to obtain one or more sets of print history data determining from the sets of print history data a primary print device for each of the one or more computer users generating and sending to each primary print device associated with the one or more computer users a request to print the electronic document.

In one feature the determining comprises determining from one or more print tickets within the sets of print history data a user identifier matching the one or more computer users.

In another feature one or more Web Services responses are received from the print devices and the determining comprises determining from the one or more Web Services responses one or more originating user identifiers matching the one or more computer users from within one or more job summaries in the responses.

In another embodiment the method further comprises creating and storing a table in memory that maps each user identifier among a plurality of user identifiers to a print device among the one or more print devices that is the primary print device for the associated user identifier determining whether the one or more computer users are identified in the table and determining a primary print device for each of the one or more computer users when the one or more computer users are identified in the table.

In still another embodiment receiving a request comprises receiving the request from an electronic mail client program hosted on a computer of one of the computer users.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method comprises receiving an electronic mail message directed to one or more computer users and comprising an electronic document accessing a stored table of print devices in a computer network and the print devices host a Web Services module generating and sending to each of the print devices one or more Web Services requests to obtain one or more sets of print history data determining from the sets of print history data a primary print device for each of the one or more computer users generating and sending to each primary print device associated with the one or more computer users a request to print the electronic document and appending to the electronic mail message information specifying that the electronic document has been sent to the primary print devices.

In one feature the appending comprises generating a copy of the electronic mail message for each of the one or more computer users appending to a copy for a particular one of the computer users information specifying that the electronic document has been sent to the primary print device for that particular one of the computer users.

Another feature comprises performing the accessing the generating and sending the Web Services requests and the determining using a print manager module and performing the receiving and the appending using an e mail client program that is logically separate from the print manager module. In yet another feature the determining comprises determining from one or more print tickets within the sets of print history data a user identifier matching the one or more computer users.

Yet another embodiment comprises receiving one or more Web Services responses from the print devices and the determining comprises determining from the one or more Web Services responses one or more originating user identifiers matching the one or more computer users from within one or more job summaries in the responses.

Still another embodiment comprises creating and storing a table in memory that maps each user identifier among a plurality of user identifiers to a name of a print device among the one or more print devices that is the primary print device for the associated user identifier determining whether the one or more computer users are identified in the table and determining a primary print device for each of the one or more computer users when the one or more computer users are identified in the table.

In one feature receiving a request comprises receiving the request from an electronic mail client program hosted on a computer of one of the computer users.

Another embodiment further comprises generating and sending to the one or more computer users a request to identify a preferred print device receiving user input from a particular computer user among the one or more computer users and the user input identifies a preferred print device for the particular computer user and generating and sending to the print device identified in the user input a request to print the electronic document.

Still another embodiment further comprises creating and storing a table in memory that maps each user identifier among a plurality of user identifiers to a name of a print device among the one or more print devices that is the primary print device for the associated user identifier determining whether the one or more computer users are identified in the table and determining a primary print device for each of the one or more computer users when the one or more computer users are identified in the table storing in the table in association with a user identifier of the particular computer user a name of the preferred print device identified in the user input.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Embodiments are described according to the following outline 

A plurality of print devices are coupled to network . In various embodiments print devices comprise printers multifunction printers document handling systems copiers copier scanners or other devices that can generate a printed output. Print devices may comprise ink jet printers laser printers flatbed printers or other printers.

For purposes of illustrating a clear example shows six 6 client computers and two 2 print devices . In other embodiments any number of client computers and print devices may be used. Further other data processing systems may be coupled to network such as routers switches servers and other devices.

In an example embodiment each of the client computers comprises a memory comprising mail client logic and print manager logic . Memory may comprise main memory system memory volatile memory or non volatile memory of any form such as static RAM DRAM FLASH memory etc. The mail client logic and print manager logic comprise logical elements that implement the functions that are further described herein and may comprise hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In an embodiment mail client logic comprises an e mail client application program such as Microsoft OUTLOOK EUDORA or other e mail client programs. However the depiction of mail client logic is merely one example of an application program of client computer that can interact with print manager logic as described herein. Alternatively an embodiment may comprise an application program such as an e mail client word processor database spreadsheet or other application program that requests the print manager to provide a particular document to one or more computer users. In another alternative mail client logic is omitted and the print manager logic interacts with an operating system or other functional elements of the client computer .

Print manager logic comprises Web Services client logic and a stored mapping that associates users with preferred print devices. Web Services client logic implements Web Services functions as further described herein including WS Device and WSD PrintService and the component standards thereof as defined by the World Wide Web Consortium W3C . Information about Web Services functions including version 0.7 of the Web Services standard is available at this writing at the domain w3c.org on the World Wide Web. Mapping may comprise a table linked list array or other data structure that stores information identifying users of the client computers in association with information identifying one or more print devices that an associated user prefers to use for printing.

In an embodiment each of the print devices comprises a memory that comprises a Web Services server which is coupled to a job history table and one or more other attributes . The Web Services server implements Web Services in the print device using the functions further described herein. Further the Web Services server maintains one or more logs or other stored data containing the history of all jobs that have been sent to the associated print device for a given period of time. The job history table stores information about print jobs that the print device has performed. The one or more other attributes comprise stored information about capabilities and attributes of the print device .

Referring now to in the memory of a print device the job history table may comprise one or more job print tickets A B N. For purposes of illustrating a clear example three 3 job print tickets are shown but alternate embodiments may comprise any number of job print tickets. Each of the job print tickets A B N comprises stored information describing a particular print job that the print device has completed. Each print ticket contains the name of a user who originated a particular print job. An example of a print ticket is shown in TABLE 1.

Each of the job print tickets A B N is accessible to the Web Services server using functions of an application programming interface API defined in Web Services.

Generally using the techniques herein a request is received to provide a printed electronic document to one or more computer users. In an embodiment a stored table of print devices in a computer network is accessed and the print devices host a Web Services module. Alternatively a client computer can send Web Services probe messages into the network and all print devices in the network that are enabled with Web Services will reply with a ProbeMatch message. The techniques provide for generating and sending to each of the print devices one or more Web Services requests to obtain one or more sets of print history data determining from the sets of print history data a primary print device for each of the one or more computer users and generating and sending to each primary print device associated with the one or more computer users a request to print the electronic document.

In any such embodiment the request may have any suitable form and the particular form used in an embodiment is not critical. The request includes information identifying an electronic document that is to be provided and information identifying which user s should receive a printed copy of the electronic document. For example the information identifying an electronic document may comprise a path name in a file system that is hosted in the client computer or in the network or in a server of the network. The information identifying an electronic document may comprise a fully qualified domain name FQDN including a file path. Further the information identifying which user s should receive a printed copy of the electronic document may comprise a list of user identifiers user names a group name a role identifier for a role to which one or more users belong a location in a directory service or other user identifying information.

In step a stored table of information about print devices is accessed. The stored table indicates what print devices are in the network and that are candidates as a preferred print device for the user s identified in the request received at step . For example the stored table may indicate both of the print devices since both are coupled to network . Alternatively the stored table may identify only a subset of all the print devices such as the print devices that are in a network segment or subnet that includes a client computer that is performing the process of . Thus when client computer is performing the process of step may involve obtaining information about only print device which is in the same network segment as client computer whereas print device is associated with other client computers in another part of network . Alternatively the client computer can access information about print devices in the network by sending a Web Services probe message into the network and parsing ProbeMatch messages which are received in reply from print devices in the network that are enabled with Web Services.

In step the process generates and sends one or more Web Services requests to the print device s that were identified based on accessing the stored table in step . The Web Services requests in effect ask each such print device s to reply with all print history data then currently maintained by the print device s . In response a print device sends a reply Web Services message that contains the contents of the job history table . TABLE 2 is an example job history response that conforms to version 0.7 of the Web Services specification.

In step the process determines from the print history data a primary print device for each of the users. Generally step comprises parsing or scanning the job history response to identify each user identifier for each particular print ticket and the print device that was used for that print ticket. However the data also may be subjected to heuristic analysis to determine a preferred print device by taking into account other information in the print tickets such as date and time of printing job state number of documents printed size of documents printed number of sheets printed etc.

In various embodiments different executable logic steps or algorithms may be used to identify a preferred print device for a user based on the print history data. As an example step may involve determining which print device was most frequently used by a particular user in a particular time period. Alternatively step involves determining which print device is closest to a particular user in terms of network topology. As another alternative step involves determining which print device a particular user used for that user s most recent print job.

In another alternative step involves determining which print device successfully completed the largest number of print jobs for a user. For example if a user printed eight jobs to Printer but all jobs aborted unsuccessfully but the same user successfully printed two jobs to Printer then Printer is probably the user s preferred printer even though the user sent more jobs to Printer . Under Web Services 0.7 information identifying job state as Success or Abort is included in the job summary within the job history list.

Still another alternative may involve matching a size of the current document to be printed against page count and document size information carried in the print tickets. For example assume that on Tuesday User A printed two documents each having more than 100 pages to Printer on Monday User A printed 32 documents each having less than 10 pages to Printer and on Wednesday User B wishes to provide User A with a three page document. Step could determine that Printer is User A s preferred print device because the page count of the current document most closely matches the average page count of Printer even though User A most recently used Printer .

Other heuristics and processes may be used. An effect of the approach herein is that one or more preferred print devices for a particular user are inferred from information indicating actual print device usage or print behavior of the user. The user is not required to actively specify which print device is preferred.

In one embodiment step results in determining one preferred print device for a user. Alternatively two or more preferred print devices are determined.

In step the process generates and sends a request to print the document to each primary print device of the particular user. Thus after at least one preferred print device is identified for a user the process sends the electronic document as requested at step to the preferred print device for that user.

The steps described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel for all of a plurality of users. An effect of the solution herein is that one user who wishes to distribute an electronic document to multiple users can ensure that each of the users receives a printed copy of the document even if the users cannot display the document on their client computers because they lack an application that can display the document.

Referring now to in an alternative approach at step an e mail message is received directed to one or more computer users and having an electronic document attached or included. For example mail client logic receives user input to compose a new message that includes a file attachment and user input that requests the mail client logic to provide the attached file to all users who are identified in the message as message recipients. Mail client logic communicates a request to print manager logic requesting the print manager logic to provide the attached file to the recipients. Print manager logic may define an application programming interface or other messaging interface for receiving such requests.

In an embodiment at step the print manager logic receives an entire e mail message including for example all headers as defined by Simple Mail Transmission Protocol SMTP or another mail protocol. Alternatively print manager logic receives a request identifying one or more users and identifying the attached file but does not receive an entire message and or message headers.

Steps to inclusive are performed according to the same functions and logic as described above for steps to inclusive of . As a result after step of the process of has determined a preferred print device for each recipient that is identified in the e mail message of step .

At step the e mail message received at step is appended to include information indicating that the attached file has been sent to the primary print devices of the recipients. For example step comprises appending a new SMTP X header to the message that identifies the preferred print devices to which the document was sent. Upon receiving and detecting such an X header the mail client logic can display a note or an alert message to the user of the client computer or take other action. The note or alert message may comprise a separate e mail message. The note or alert message can identify the name of the print device that was used to ensure that invitees who use multiple print devices can find the document. Alternatively step comprises modifying the body of the message to add information such as The attached file has been sent to your preferred print device where is the name used in the network or in a directory to denote the preferred print device.

Referring now to in one approach print job history information received in Web Services responses is used to create a stored mapping of preferred print devices in association with user identifiers. In an example process at step a client computer or print manager logic receives one or more Web Services message s that indicate attribute s of print device s and the client computer or print manager logic stores the attribute s for later use.

In an embodiment when networked print devices power up and come online in the network the print devices sent Web Services messages into the network to announce themselves and their attributes. The print manager logic of each client computer receives the Web Services messages at Web Services client decodes the messages and stores the attributes in memory for later use. Examples of attributes may include a name number and type of paper trays color capabilities font capabilities availability of processing engine for ADOBE POSTSCRIPT page description language and others.

In step print history information is requested from the print devices. For example print manager logic sends one or more Web Services requests to each of the print devices and the Web Services requests in effect as each of the print devices to provide the contents of its job history table . In response the print manager logic receives one or more sets of print history information in Web Services responses.

In step the process determines one or more preferred print device s for user s in the network based on the received print history information. Any of the techniques described herein in relation to step may be used to implement step .

In step a mapping is stored that associates identifier s of user s to identifier s of preferred print devices for those users. The mapping may comprise mapping in a client computer for example. An effect of the approach herein is that a client computer receives and stores information that associates users in the network to preferred print devices of those users. In one embodiment step results in determining one preferred print device for a user and step stores an identifier of the one preferred print device. Alternatively two or more preferred print devices are determined and stored in the mapping. The two or more preferred print devices may be stored in the mapping in priority order.

Subsequently in an embodiment the stored mapping can be used to automatically select a preferred print device for one or more users and to cause an electronic document to be printed automatically at the preferred print device for those users. For example in step based on receiving one or more user identifiers one or more preferred print devices are selected based on the mapping. Step can involve performing a look up operation in the table keyed to a user identifier resulting in retrieving a matching print device identifier from the mapping.

In step one or more print jobs are initiated to print an electronic document on the print devices that were selected at step .

The steps described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel for all of a plurality of users. An effect of the solution herein is that the memory of a client computer is modified to structure store retain and manage information indicating a preferred print device for a particular user without the user actively indicating which print device is preferred. A further effect is that one user who wishes to distribute an electronic document to multiple users can ensure that each of the users receives a printed copy of the document even if the users cannot display the document on their client computers because they lack an application that can display the document.

Steps to which are involved in creating the mapping of users to preferred print devices may be implemented to run independently and collect data periodically. Alternatively the steps can be triggered to run and collect data by an external program such as a mail client. In the case of a large work environment with many print devices steps to or the other print manager logic described herein may be implemented as an independent service on a server in network or another network.

An effect of the approaches herein is to automate document distribution without requiring a recipient to install or use an application program that can open or display a document that a sender needs to distribute. Embodiments are effective in spatially large office environments that support LAN connections of print devices.

In some situations certain steps of the approaches herein may be unable to determine a preferred print device for a user. For example the sender of an e mail message may be unable to identify a recipient s preferred print device because no print history information is available for that user because one or more print devices implement Web Services security and do not provide print history information in response to requests or because print devices do not respond to the sender s Web Services requests. Further a print device that a recipient generally prefers may not be appropriate at a particular time for example a user may receive a meeting invitation on a mobile PC at a time when the user is not in a normal work area that has the preferred print device.

In an embodiment the recipient is prompted in the e mail message to identify a preferred printer. Alternatively the sender may wish to give the recipient the flexibility to print the document when he or she chooses. For example the document might be confidential and the sender may not want to send the document it to a printer if the recipient is unavailable to retrieve the document from the printer.

In these situations benefits can be obtained in the approaches herein by requesting a user to provide information that identifies a preferred print device. Referring now to in an embodiment in step a message containing a hyperlink is sent to a particular user. For example print manager logic requests e mail client logic to create a new e mail message that is addressed to a particular user. The hyperlink identifies a Web service or network application that implements selecting print devices. In an embodiment the message and hyperlink do not require the recipient to open or display a document that the sender wishes to provide to the recipient. Thus an effect of the approach herein is that a recipient is not required to install or use an application that can read or display the document.

In step a selection of the hyperlink is received. For example the message recipient receives the message opens the message with an e mail client program that can process hyperlinks displays the message with the hyperlink and selects the hyperlink.

In response in step a list of available print devices is displayed. Each print device may have a hyperlink or other user interface widget to facilitate selecting the print device.

In step a selection of a print device is received. For example the recipient selects the hyperlink or other user interface widget associated with a particular print device.

In an embodiment also may be implemented as follows. A Sender composes HTML email message with an HTM enabled mail client. The Sender selects an Auto distribute document function of the mail client and identifies a document to print for recipients. The Sender addresses the message and sends to recipient. The Sender s Print Manager automatically appends to the message before it is sent The sender of this message has identified a document for printing to your local print device. To identify your local print device and print the document click here. 

The Receiver receives the message and clicks on click here. The Receiver s mail client invokes a browser DLL retrieves and displays an HTML document from an Intranet server on the enterprise LAN. The HTML document contains a list of print devices that are available in the network. The HTML document is dynamically populated with this information from an Active Directory server or other database. Each listed print device has a hyperlink.

The Receiver selects the link for a preferred print device. The network name or IP address of the preferred print device is sent to the Sender s Print Manager. The Sender s Print Manager then communicates with that print device using SOAP to obtain data for that print device and request the print job.

Alternatively the situations identified above are addressed using the print manager logic of to automatically obtain the Recipient s preferred printer without involving the recipient person. In an embodiment the print manager logic on a first client computer of a Sender communicates with print manager logic of a second client computer of the Recipient and exchanges information that specifies the Recipient s preferred printer. In an embodiment the print manager logic at each client computer communicates with the other using a special purpose messaging protocol rather than Web Services. Print manager logic of may implement a messaging service for the purpose of communicating with other instances of the print manager logic on other client computers.

In any of the embodiments described herein before initiating a print job on a print device for example at steps and the print manager logic may verify that the preferred print device can actually print the requested document. For example the print manager logic may verify that the preferred print device supports the language format and other characteristics of the print job. The print manager logic may perform such verification based on the attributes previously received from the print devices and stored by the print manager.

If such verifying indicates that the selected preferred print device cannot print the requested document then the document may be sent to a default printer or an implementation can select the next preferred printer for the recipient.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor .

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. All such media must be tangible to enable the instructions carried by the media to be detected by a physical mechanism that reads the instructions into a machine.

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system may comprise one or more user input devices such as pushbuttons keypads etc. for providing command input to the computer system. Computer system may comprise a display such as an LED display LCD display or individual lamps or LEDs for indicating system state or system functions to a user.

Computer system may comprise a printing system that comprises paper handling apparatus toner applying apparatus toner heating apparatus or ink jet application apparatus. Using printing system the computer system can transform data received by processor into a printed image on a page in the manner of a laser printer inkjet printer or other form of printer.

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the worldwide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

