---

title: System for managing the navigational usability of an interactive map
abstract: A graphical user interface for graphically managing the navigational usability of an interactive map is described. In one embodiment, the graphical user interface includes a layer hierarchy having a first layer and a second layer. The graphical user interface also includes a first display range bar associated with the first layer and configured to show a range of map scales at which the first layer is displayed in the digitized map. In addition, the graphical user interface includes a second display range bar associated with the second layer and configured to show a range of map scales at which the second layer is displayed in the digitized map.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07930072&OS=07930072&RS=07930072
owner: Autodesk, Inc.
number: 07930072
owner_city: San Rafael
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070828
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 814 946 filed Mar. 30 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 269 801. The aforementioned related patent application is herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to data management and more particularly to a system for managing the navigational usability of an interactive map.

Computer implemented geographic information systems are well known in the art and typically are configured to provide digitized maps to end users that contain information pertaining to a wide variety of features such as lakes rivers roads etc. In many instances computer implemented geographic information systems are configured to enable an end user to perform searches for a particular location within a given digitized map and also to choose a scale at which the digitized map is displayed.

The map developer determines the ranges of map scale at which each layer and associated graphics style s are displayed in the digitized map . For example the map developer may choose to show the minor road only in local maps since presenting minor roadways on a small scale map such as a map of the entire United States would be impractical. Conversely showing the names of the country and state in a map of a small suburb would be inappropriate. The choices made by the map developer regarding the map scale ranges for each layer directly affects the usability of the digitized map because displaying too much detail may result in an unreadable map while displaying too little detail may render the map less useful. Further since the time required to download the digitized map to an end user computing device directly relates to the amount of data required to generate the digitized map at a particular map scale the map developer also needs to consider how the various data weights of the digitized map at different map scales affect the navigational usability of the digitized map . For example data weights that are too large may cause downloading delays if the available bandwidth to the end user computing device is limited.

A given digitized map may include upwards of a hundred or more layers. When building such a map the map developer faces the difficult and tedious task of organizing and managing the data associated with all of the different layers of the map. Currently map developers manage the layer settings including the associated display ranges and graphics styles for each layer via individual dialog boxes. To globally organize all of the different layers of the map and the respective settings for those layers however map developers oftentimes rely on spreadsheets or even paper and pencil. These tracking methods fail to provide an efficient visual organization of the layers of the digitized map the ranges of map scales at which the various layers are displayed in the digitized map or the different graphics styles associated with the various layers of the digitized map. Further these methods provide no way of sampling the digitized map to test its navigational usability.

Therefore there is a need for a system that enables a map developer to efficiently organize and manage the layers of a digitized map based on parameters such as the draw priority of the various layers the graphics styles associated with each of the various layers and the ranges of map scale at which the various layers are displayed in the digitized map. Further there is a need for a system that enables a map developer to analyze data weights and transmission times of the digitized map at various map scales to determine the navigational usability of the digitized map.

One embodiment of a graphical user interface configured to organize and manage the layers of a digitized map includes a layer hierarchy having a first layer and a second layer. The graphical user interface also includes a first display range bar associated with the first layer and configured to show a range of map scales at which the first layer is displayed in the digitized map. In addition the graphical user interface includes a second display range bar associated with the second layer and configured to show a range of map scales at which the second layer is displayed in the digitized map.

One advantage of the disclosed graphical user interface and analyzer is that a map developer may efficiently organize and manage the layers of a digitized map based on the draw priority of the various layers the graphics styles associated with each of the various layers and the ranges of map scale at which the various layers are displayed in the digitized map. Another advantage is that a map developer may analyze data weights and transmission times of the digitized map at various map scales to determine the navigational usability of the digitized map.

The client computer may comprise any type of computing device such as for example a server machine a desk top computer a lap top computer a set top box game system or console or a personal digital assistant PDA . As illustrated the client computer generally includes a central processing unit CPU connected via a bus to a memory a storage element an input device an output device and a network interface device . The memory may be a random access memory RAM device sufficiently large to hold the necessary programs and data structures associated with the invention. While the memory is shown as a single entity persons skilled in the art will understand that in other embodiments the memory may comprise a plurality of modules and that the memory may exist at multiple levels from high speed registers and caches to larger lower speed DRAM chips.

Illustratively the memory contains one or more applications . In one embodiment the applications include without limitation a map author a web browser and a map viewer . The map author may be a map development software application utilized to create modify and electronically display map window files that define a digitized map such as the digitized map of . In one embodiment the map author includes a management tool for visually managing the various layers of a digitized map through a graphical user interface such as a map organization layer diagram not shown described below in conjunction with . The map author may further include an analyzer tool for generating and graphically displaying sample data weights and transmission times of the digitized map as described in further detail below in conjunction with . The web browser enables the client computer to communicate with the map server through the network and may include the map viewer as a plug in application. The map viewer enables an end user or a map developer at the client computer to access the digitized map and its associated data from the map server .

The memory also contains an operating system . Examples of suitable operating systems include without limitation Linux and Microsoft Windows as well as any operating systems designed for handheld devices such as Palm OS Windows CE and the like. More generally any operating system supporting the various functionalities disclosed herein may be implemented in conjunction with the invention.

The storage element may be any storage device configured to allow storage of data utilized in connection with the one or more applications and the operating system . In one embodiment the storage element comprises a direct access storage device. Although shown as a single unit in alternative embodiments the storage element may be a combination of fixed and or removable storage devices such as fixed disc drives floppy disc drives tape drives removable memory cards or optical storage. Further in other alternative embodiments the memory and the storage element may be part of one virtual address space spanning multiple primary and secondary storage devices.

The input device may be any device configured to input data or instructions to the client computer such as for example a keyboard keypad light pen touch screen track ball or speech recognition unit audio video player and the like. The output device may be any device configured to provide output to the user of client computer such as for example any type of conventional display screen. Although shown separately from the input device in alternative embodiments the output device and the input device may be combined into one element. For example the client computer may include touch screen or a display with an integrated keyboard for inputting data into the client computer .

The network interface device may be any entry exit device configured to allow network communications between the client computer and the server via the network . For example the network interface device may be a network adapter or other network interface card. Optionally the network interface device may comprise any suitable wireless interface to provide a wireless connection to the network .

The map server may be any type of standard server containing software applications configured to respond to map data requests from users of the client computer . Typically an application programming interface not shown facilitates communications between the map server and applications running on the client computer . The map server works in conjunction with the map author and the map viewer on the client computer to create and deliver digitized maps to the client computer .

The web server provides a connection point for the client computer to request information from the map server and the database over the network . The database is a repository for the map related data used by the map server . In one embodiment the database may be implemented as a relational database that accommodates different types of map data e.g. map attributes and map geometries . In other embodiments the database may be implemented as an XML database or an object relational database or formatted files.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented as application products for use with the networked computer system to support map development and more particularly to provide a means for graphically organizing and managing the various layers of a digitized map. The programs of the application product may be contained on a variety of signal bearing media. Illustrative signal bearing media include but are not limited to i information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as CD ROM disks readable by a CD ROM drive ii alterable information stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard disk drive or iii information conveyed to a computer by a communications medium such as through a computer or telephone network including wireless communications. The latter embodiment specifically includes information downloaded from the Internet and other networks. Such signal bearing media when carrying computer readable instructions that direct the functionalities of the invention represent exemplary but not limiting embodiments of the invention.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention may be part of an operating system or a specific application component program module object or sequence of instructions. The software of the invention typically is comprised of a multitude of instructions that will be translated by the native computer into a machine readable format and hence executable instructions. Also programs are comprised of variables and data structures that either reside locally to the program or are found in memory or on storage devices.

While the foregoing describes one system in which the invention may be implemented persons skilled in the art will recognize that in alternative embodiments the invention may be implemented on any type of a stand alone not networked computing device or equivalent system containing the components necessary to implement the various functionalities described herein. Persons skilled in the art will therefore understand that the hardware environment depicted in conjunction with the network computer system in no way limits the scope of the invention.

As shown the MOLD may include without limitation a name column a style column a range column and a bar chart with a current scale indicator . The name column is configured to enable a map developer to create a hierarchical ordering of the different layers of a digitized map. More specifically in one embodiment the name column may be configured to display layer groups sub layer groups and layers. A layer group resides at the top of the layer hierarchy and may be subdivided into layers and or sub layer groups. In one embodiment each layer group in the name column corresponds to a generalized feature displayed in the digitized map. For example a Roads layer group corresponds to all of the roads displayed in the digitized map.

A sub layer group resides in the middle of the layer hierarchy and may be subdivided into layers and or additional sub layer groups. In one embodiment each sub layer group in the name column corresponds to a subset of either a layer group or another sub layer group. For example a Major sub layer group is a subset of the Roads layer group and corresponds to all of the major roads displayed in the digitized map. Persons skilled in the art will understand that further dividing a sub layer group into additional sub layer groups creates another level in the layer hierarchy set forth in the name column and that a map developer may create as many levels of sub layer groups as is necessary to organize the layers of the digitized map as desired.

A layer resides at the bottom of the layer hierarchy and may not be further subdivided into layers or sub layer groups. In one embodiment each layer in the name column corresponds to a specific type of map feature that is displayed in the digitized map. For example a Hydrants layer includes all of the various fire hydrants displayed in the digitized map a Cities layer includes all of the various cities displayed in the digitized map and a Minor layer includes all of the various minor roads displayed in the digitized map.

As previously described herein the digitized map is rendered by superimposing each layer in the layer hierarchy on top one other in a predetermined order. In one embodiment the name column is configured to display the layers of the digitized map in the reverse order of the order in which the layers are superimposed on top of one another to render the digitized map. For example when rendering a digitized map at the scale of 1 2 000 the Cities layer would be superimposed on top of one or more layers organized under the Roads layer group and then the Hydrants layer would be superimposed on top of the Cities layer . In alternative embodiments the name column may be configured to display the different layers of the digitized map in any sort of order other than the layer draw order.

As also shown in hierarchical icons or layer nodes are utilized to facilitate management of the layer hierarchy set forth in the name column . Each layer group sub layer group and layer in the name column may be thought of as a node in the layer hierarchy and each such node is assigned a different hierarchical icon . When collapsed a given hierarchical icon appears as a plus sign and only the layer group sub layer group or layer associated with that hierarchical icon appears in the name column . For a node that is a layer group or a sub layer group a sign indicates that a combination of two or more layers and or sub layer groups is organized under that node. For example if the hierarchical icon for the Roads layer group were collapsed the sign would indicate that the Major sub layer group and the Minor layer are organized under the Roads layer group . Similarly the fact that the hierarchical icon for the Major sub layer group is collapsed indicates that a combination of one or more layers and or sub layer groups is organized under the Major sub layer group . As is described in further detail herein for a node that is a layer a sign indicates that one or more graphics styles are used to represent the map feature associated with that layer in the digitized map. For example if the hierarchical icon for the Cities layer were collapsed the sign would indicate that a city icon and a city icon are used to represent the various cities in the Cities layer in the digitized map.

When expanded a given hierarchical icon appears as a minus sign. For a node that is a layer group or a sub layer group when the hierarchical icon associated with that node is expanded each sub layer group and or layer organized directly under the node i.e. the next level down in the layer hierarchy appears in the name column . For example as shown in since the hierarchical icon associated with the Roads layer group is expanded the Major sub layer group and the Minor layer appear in the name column . As is described in further detail herein for a node that is a layer when the hierarchical icon associated with that node is expanded each graphics style used to represent the map feature associated with that layer in the digitized map appears in conjunction with the layer in the MOLD . For example as shown in since the hierarchical icon associated with the Cities layer is expanded the city icon and the city icon appear in conjunction with the Cities layer in MOLD .

Persons skilled in the art will recognize that the functionality associated with collapsing and expanding the hierarchical icons is similar to that provided by well known file management applications such as Microsoft Windows Explorer.

The style column is configured to display a graphical representation of the map feature associated with each layer of the digitized map. Each such graphical representation may comprise any type of visual variable including but not limited to icons patterns or designs of any shape color orientation texture size hue saturation and the like. For example differently shaped city icons and may be used to represent the various cities in the Cities layer thin lines of a particular color may be used to represent the minor roads in the Minor layer and thicker lines of different colors may be used to represent the various types of major roads in the layers organized under the Major sub layer group .

The map feature associated with a given layer may be graphically represented by either a single graphics style or by a set of two or more graphics styles. For example a minor road icon may be used to represent the minor roads in the Minor layer . By contrast the hydrant icon and the hydrant icon may be used to represent different types of fire hydrants in the Hydrant layer . For example the hydrant icon may be green and may represent fire hydrants that have a lower water pressure level and flow rate and the hydrant icon may be red and may represent fire hydrants that have a higher water pressure level and flow rate.

In addition as described in further detail herein for each set of graphics styles used to represent a given map feature a single display range may be common to all of the graphics styles within the set or each graphics style within the set may have an individualized display range. For example the hydrant icon and the hydrant have a common display range of 1 1 to 1 5 000. Thus both the hydrant icon and the hydrant icon are used to represent the various fire hydrants in the Hydrants layer at every map scale within this display range. By contrast the display range for the city icon is 1 1 to 1 10 000 and the display range for the city icon is 1 10 001 to 1 100 000. Thus when the digitized map is rendered at a scale falling within the former display range the city icon is used to represent the various cities in the Cities layer but when the digitized map is rendered at a scale falling with the latter display range the city icon is used to represent the various cities in the Cities layer.

Persons skilled in the art will understand that the MOLD may be configured to include one or more graphical representations or graphics styles for any type of feature that may be included in any type of digitized map.

The bar chart is configured to provide a graphical representation of the display ranges of the various nodes of the layer hierarchy set forth in name column . Note that a display range is referred to herein as the range of map scales for which the elements organized under a given node are displayed in the digitized map. As shown the bar chart may include without limitation summary bars and display range bars. If a hierarchical icon of a node in the layer hierarchy is collapsed then the bar chart includes a summary bar corresponding to that node. If the node is a layer group or a sub layer group then the summary bar is configured to indicate the display range s of the layers and or sub layer groups organized under that node. For example since the hierarchical icon of the Major sub layer group is collapsed the bar chart includes a summary bar indicating that the layers and or sub layer groups organized under the Major sub layer group have an aggregate display range of 1 1 to 1 100 000. Similarly since the hierarchical icon of a Rivers layer group is collapsed the bar chart includes a summary bar indicating that the layers and or sub layer groups organized under the Rivers layer group have an aggregate display range of 1 5 000 to 1 10 000.

If the node is a layer then the summary bar is configured to indicate the display range s of the graphics styles used to represent the map feature associated with that layer in the digitized map. For example if the hierarchical icon of the Hydrants layer were collapsed then the bar chart would include a summary bar corresponding to that node indicating that the hydrant icon and the hydrant icon have an aggregate display range of 1 1 to 1 5 000 where each icon has a common display range as previously described herein . Similarly if the hierarchical icon of the Cities layer were collapsed then the bar chart would include a summary bar corresponding to that node indicating that the city icon and the city icon have an aggregate display range of 1 1 to 1 100 000 where the city icon has an individualized display range of 1 1 to 10 000 and the city icon has an individualized display range of 1 10 001 to 1 100 000 as previously described herein .

If a hierarchical icon of a node in the layer hierarchy is expanded and the node is a layer group or a sub layer group then the bar chart includes neither a summary bar nor a display range bar for that node. For example since the hierarchical icon of the Roads layer group is expanded the bar chart does not include either a summary bar or a display range bar for that node. Similarly if the hierarchical icon of the Major sub layer group were expanded then the bar chart would not include the summary bar . Again the bar chart would not include any type of bar either a summary bar or a display range bar for that node.

If a hierarchical icon of a node in the layer hierarchy is expanded and the node is a layer then the bar chart includes a display range bar corresponding to each graphics style associated with that layer having an individualized display range and to each set of graphics styles associated with that layer having a common display range. Each such display range bar is configured to indicate either the individualized display range for each such graphics style or the common display range for each such set of graphics styles. For example since the hierarchical icon of the Hydrants layer is expanded and the hydrant icon and the hydrant icon have a common display range the bar chart includes a display range bar indicating that the common display range is from 1 1 to 1 5 000. Since the hierarchical icon of the Cities layer is expanded and the city icon and the city icon have individualized display ranges the bar chart includes a display range bar indicating that the individualized display range of the city icon is from 1 1 to 1 10 000 and the individualized display range of the city icon is from 1 10 001 to 1 100 000. Similarly since the hierarchical icon of the Minor layer is expanded and the minor roads icon has an individualized display range the bar chart includes a display range bar indicating that the individualized display range is from 1 1 to 1 50 000.

In alternative embodiments the bar chart may be configured to include summary bars corresponding to each node in the layer hierarchy even when the hierarchical icons of those nodes are expanded. For example the bar chart may be configured to include a summary bar corresponding to the Cities layer indicating that the city icon and city icon have an aggregate display range of 1 1 to 1 100 000. Similarly the bar chart may be configured to include a summary bar corresponding to the Roads layer group indicating that the layers and sub layer groups organized under the Roads layer group have an aggregate display range of 1 1 to 1 100 000. Persons skilled in the art will understand that in such embodiments the bar chart may include a summary bar for each node in the layer hierarchy set forth in the name column .

The range column is configured to display numerical values for the display ranges associated with each summary bar or display range bar included in the bar chart . For example the range column indicates the display range associated with the summary bar is from 1 1 to 1 100 000. Similarly the range column indicates that the display range associated with the display range bar is from 1 1 to 1 10 000 and that the display range associated with the display range bar is from 1 10 001 to 1 100 000.

The current scale indicator may be used to determine the layers and styles that are displayed in the digitized map at a particular map scale. More specifically the map developer may align the current scale indicator with a given map scale included in the display ranges and may visually inspect the bar graph to determine which display range bars included in the bar graph are intersected by the current scale indicator . The intersected display range bars correspond to the layers that are displayed in the digitized map at the selected map scale and indicate the graphics style used to represent the map feature associated with each of those layers at the selected map scale. For example as shown in the current scale indicator aligns with a map scale of 1 8 000 and intersects the display range bar and the display range bar . Thus at this map scale the map developer understands that the Cities layer and the Minor layer are displayed in the digitized map. The map developer further understands that at this map scale the city icon is used to represent the cities in the digitized map and that the minor roads icon is used to represent the minor roads in the digitized map. Aside from allowing map developers to determine which layers are presented at a particular scale selecting and dragging the current scale indicator changes the current display scale of the digitized map. For example if the current scale indicator is positioned at 1 10 000 the map developer views the map at a scale of 1 10 000 in the map development application.

Persons skilled in the art will recognize that if the map developer expands every hierarchical icon included in the layer hierarchy set forth in name column then the map developer may determine every layer and associated graphics style that is displayed in the digitized map at the selected map scale. In addition persons skilled in the art will understand that by moving the current scale indicator the map developer may determine the layers and styles displayed in the digitized map at a different map scale.

As described in further detail below in conjunction with Tables 1 3 the MOLD is configured to enable the map developer to interact with the layer hierarchy in the name column the graphics styles in the style column the display ranges in the range column the summary and display range bars in the bar chart and the current scale indicator to organize and modify the various layers of the digitized map. For example a Name tab is configured to enable the map developer to define and edit the different layer groups sub layer groups and layers set forth in the name column a Style tab is configured to enable the map developer to define and edit the different graphics styles in the style column a Range tab is configured to enable the map developer to define and edit the display ranges set forth in the range column and display range tabs are configured to enable the map developer to define and edit the different subsets of display ranges . Further the different graphical elements of the MOLD e.g. the graphics styles the summary bars and the display range bars are configured to be modified by the map developer through input devices such as a mouse a keyboard and the like. In addition the MOLD is configured with certain functionalities that enable the map developer to view various types of information about the different nodes in the layer hierarchy and the graphics style s associated with the various layers of the digitized map. Among other things the map developer may use this information to confirm modifications made to the graphical elements of the MOLD when building the digitized map.

Table 1 illustrates one embodiment of the functionalities related to the summary bars and the display range bars included in the bar chart that the map developer may use to organize and modify the layers of the digitized map. As persons skilled in the art will understand the summary bars and display range bars may be configured to enable the map developer to select two or more such bars together such that the map developer may modify the bars simultaneously thereby allowing uniform modifications to be made to the selected bars.

Table 2 illustrates one embodiment of similar functionalities that relate to the layers set forth in the name column . Although the functionalities set forth in Table 2 relate to layers in other embodiments similar functionalities may be provided for layer groups and sub layer groups.

Once the map developer has finished viewing and or modifying the various layers an OK tab may be clicked to save the modifications. The MOLD also includes a Cancel tab which may be selected to clear an undesirable modification and a Help tab which may be selected to access various types of user support information.

In one embodiment all or part of the MOLD may be incorporated into a map development software application such as the map author of . In alternative embodiments however all or part of the MOLD may reside in a stand alone software application that is configured to interact with a map development software application. In addition persons skilled in the art will understand that the MOLD may be configured such that any modifications made to a layer or to the organization of the layers in the MOLD are automatically reflected in the digitized map through the map development software application. Similarly the MOLD may be configured such that any modifications made to a layer or to the organization of the layers using the map development software application are automatically reflected in the MOLD .

As shown the analyzer may include without limitation a data weight scale a transmission time scale display ranges a graphical representation of data weights and transmission times a target client bandwidth selector a target resolution selector an analyze tab and a current scale indicator . The data size scale and the transmission time scale provide vertical scales for the graphical representation of the data weights and transmission times. The display ranges provide the horizontal scale for the graphical representation of the data weights and transmission times. In one embodiment the display ranges mirror the display ranges of the MOLD . In alternative embodiments however the display ranges and the display ranges may be different. The graphical representation of the data weights and transmission times comprises a plurality of points wherein each such point represents the data weight i.e. the amount of data transferred to the end user computing device of the digitized map at a given map scale and the transmission time of that data based on the display screen resolution and the available bandwidth to the end user s computing device. The target client bandwidth selector and the target resolution selector allow the map developer to select the available bandwidth and display screen resolution respectively of the end user s computing device. The analyze tab allows the map developer to request an analysis. The current scale indicator is used to select the map scales for which the data weights and transmission times are computed by the analyzer . The current scale indicator is similar to the current scale indicator of the MOLD and may include the same functionalities set forth above in conjunction with Table 3.

As also shown in the analyzer may be configured with certain other interactive features in addition to those described above. For example the analyzer includes a Data Size tab which is configured to enable the map developer to define and edit the various data weights included in the data weight scale a Time tab which is configured to enable the map developer to define and edit the various transmission times in the transmission time scale and display range tabs which is configured to enable the map developer to define and edit the different subsets of the display ranges .

To analyze the navigational usability of a digitized map with the analyzer the map developer selects the display screen resolution of the end user s computing device using the target resolution selector and the available bandwidth to the end user s computing device using the target client bandwidth selector . The map developer then selects the analyze tab to initiate the analysis. The analyzer is configured to select a random map scale at which the digitized map may be transmitted i.e. the map scale at which the end user may view the digitized map . The analyzer is configured then to compute the data weight of the digitized map at the selected scale as well as the transmission time of the digitized map at the selected scale. As previously described herein not all of the layers of the digitized map are necessarily used to render the digitized map at the selected map scale. A particular layer is used to render the digitized map at the selected map scale only if the display range associated with that layer includes the selected map scale. Persons skilled in the art will understand that the number of layers used to render the digitized map at the selected map scale the region of the digitized map displayed at that map scale and the amount of data included in each such layer determine the data weight of the digitized map at the selected map scale. Upon completing the relevant computations the analyzer displays a point in the graphical representation that indicates the data weight and the transmission time of the digitized map at the selected map scale given the selected display screen resolution and available bandwidth to the end user s computing device. The analyzer is configured to repeat this analysis for any number of randomly selected map scales within the display ranges . The graphical representation comprises the totality of points generated and displayed by the analyzer .

In an alternative embodiment shown in the analyzer may be configured to compute a separate data weight and transmission time for one or more different regions of the digitized map at each randomly selected map scale. The analyzer may be further configured to display a separate point in the graphical representation corresponding to each such region as described above. The graphical representation therefore includes multiple points for each randomly selected map scale. Such an embodiment is useful for example when the system transmitting the digitized map to the end user is configured to transmit only one such region at a time for each map scale. In yet another alternative embodiment the map developer may select each map scale used to generate the graphical representation using the current scale indicator .

Persons skilled in the art will understand that in other embodiments the analyzer may be configured to consider inputs other than the display screen resolution and the available bandwidth to the end user s computing device when computing the data weight and transmission time of the digitized map.

The map developer may use the analyzer when building the digitized map to determine whether the transmission time at any map scale exceeds a predetermined threshold that would inhibit end users from readily accessing the digitized map i.e. where the download time is too long . The map developer may then use this information to either modify one or more layers of the digitized map or reorganize the layers of the digitized map to improve the transmission times. For example the map developer may remove information included in particular layers to decrease the data weight of the digitized map at certain map scales. The map developer also may alter the number of layers or the specific layers included in the digitized map at certain map scales to decrease the data weight at those scales. For example as shown in the map developer may notice that the data weights of the regions of the digitized map at a map scale of 1 2500 are approximately 70 KB and that the transmission times at that scale are approximately 10 seconds. The map developer may modify the display ranges of a countries layer and a states layer of the digitized map such that these layers are displayed in the digitized map at the 1 2500 scale. As previously described herein decreasing the data weight of the digitized map typically decreases the transmission time since less data is being transmitted to the end user s computing device. Thus removing these two layers from the digitized map should increase the transfer rate at the 1 2 500 scales. The MOLD and the analyzer are configured such that the map developer may repeat the data weight transmission time analysis and layer modification reorganization processes until a desired result is achieved.

One advantage of the disclosed graphical user interface and analyzer is that a map developer may efficiently organize and manage the layers of a digitized map based on the draw priority of the various layers the graphics styles associated with each of the various layers and the ranges of map scale at which the various layers are displayed in the digitized map. Another advantage is that a map developer may analyze data weights and transmission times of the digitized map at various map scales to determine the navigational usability of the digitized map.

The invention has been described above with reference to specific embodiments. Persons skilled in the art however will understand that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. For example in alternative embodiments the MOLD may be adapted for software applications other than map development software application that also deal with scale dependant visibility navigation i.e. panning zooming and layering priorities. In addition the MOLD may be configured to include graphical or textual information about layer attributes other than display ranges associated graphics styles or draw priority. The foregoing description and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

