---

title: Apparatus and methods for locating, tracking and/or recovering a wireless communication device
abstract: Methods, systems, devices and computer program products are provided for locating, tracking and/or recovering a wireless communication device that has been misplaced, lost or stolen. In addition, the aspects provide for tracking or surveillance of the location or user in instances in which the wireless device has been loaned or is being used for covert surveillance. The aspects include communicating a locating state code to the targeted device, which detects the code and executes one or more routines that are associated with the respective code. In this regard, the targeted device is capable of carrying out different routines or sequences of actions depending on the state of the device, such as a misplaced state, a lost state, a stolen state or the like, which is based on the respective code.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08385883&OS=08385883&RS=08385883
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08385883
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070731
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 888 469 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Detecting Tracking and Recovering Stolen or Lost Mobile Devices filed Feb. 6 2007 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosed aspects relate to wireless communication devices and more particularly to systems methods and apparatus for locating and or tracking and or recovering a wireless communication device especially devices that have been lost stolen or misplaced.

Wireless communication devices have become a prevalent means by which majorities of people worldwide have come to communicate. Wireless communication devices have become smaller and more powerful in order to meet consumer needs and to improve portability and convenience. The smallness and portability of such devices make them highly susceptible to being misplaced lost or stolen. As the user penetration within the general population increases to include younger aged and senior aged users the likelihood for misplacing losing or having a device stolen tends to increase.

While many wireless communication devices are configured to provide password security protection the password is typically required at device power up. Thus if a device has been lost or stolen while the power is on the finder or the thief can use it as long as the device remains on. In many other instances users prefer to forego password security protection because logging on each time the device is powered up is viewed as tedious and unnecessary action.

When the user of the wireless communication device is confronted with a situation in which the device is misplaced lost or stolen it provides for a troublesome and at times traumatic experience. The wireless communication device such as a mobile telephone is no longer limited to providing a means for placing and receiving communication calls. The increased storage capacity and functionality of the devices may provide the user e wallet or mobile office functionality which allows the user to not only store contact information but also credit card information valuable and secured personal and business related information and the like. Thus permanently losing a device and having to replace a lost or stolen device is not merely a matter of just facing the economical burden of purchasing a new device it may also involve attempting to reacquire lost data changing previous secure personal and or business information cancelling credit cards and the like.

Users confronted with a misplaced stolen or lost wireless communication device typically perform one or more standard operations such as searching for the device reporting to the authorities that the device has been stolen contacting the service provider to get services turned off and if the device is permanently lost or stolen purchasing a new device. All of these standard options are less than attractive to the user as they require time effort cost and induce stress. In the case of a misplaced device which is reported as lost for the purpose of disconnecting services and is then subsequently found the user has to perform the tedious and time consuming process of re contacting the service provider to have the service reinstated.

Regardless of whether the wireless communication device is misplaced lost or stolen it is critical that the device be rendered unusable either temporarily until the device is found or returned or permanently if the device is stolen not found or not returned.

In other situations in which a user loans their device to some one else such as a parent loaning their device to their child a need may exist to track the location of the device and or the corresponding loanee. In another application it may be advantageous to provide a user a wireless communication device and nefariously track the location of the user or the user s actions. For example a law enforcement agency may desire to track the whereabouts or actions of a suspected criminal without the suspected criminal knowing that they are being tracked or their actions being monitored.

Thus a need exists to provide for locating tracking and or recovering wireless communication devices that have been misplaced lost or stolen. As such a need exists to provide disablement and secure the data stored on a wireless communication device that is misplaced lost or stolen. Additionally a need also exists for providing location and action tracking of wireless devices in the instance in which the device has been loaned or to provide covert surveillance by law enforcement of suspected criminals.

Present aspects provide for methods devices systems and computer program products for locating tracking securing and or recovering wireless communication devices that have been misplaced lost or stolen. In this regard present aspects rely on generating a communication data packet for example a Short Message Service SMS communication data packet at a secondary wireless device a web interface or a network service provider device. The communication data packet includes a locating state code that identifies one of a plurality of locating states that are operable on the targeted i.e. the misplaced lost or stolen wireless communication device. The locating states are associated with one or more predetermined routines that are operable on the targeted wireless device. In some aspects the locating state may be associated with a sequence of routines that are triggered on the device.

The predetermined routines may effectively disable lock the wireless communication device disable any application running on the wireless device such as a communication call application. Additionally the predetermined routines may trigger audible visual or sensory perceptible alerts to the possessor of the device that identify the device as being lost or stolen. The predetermined routines may additionally capture data such as geographic location data image data audio data and the like and communicate the data to the owner user of the targeted device to a network entity device or to a service provider device. In turn the captured and retrieved information may be used to locate the device and or the party who is in possession of the targeted device. Additionally the predetermined routines that capture and communicate data may be operated in a stealth mode so that conventional indicators that would normally be presented such as displayed lights or messages or audible tones are suppressed to insure that the finder thief is unaware that these routines are currently being executed.

One aspect is defined by method for locating a targeted wireless communication device. The method includes receiving at the targeted wireless communication device a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The communication data packet such as a data call packet or voice call packet may in some aspects take the form of a Short Message Service SMS communication data packet. The communication data packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which the targeted wireless device is operable. Each locating state is stored in a memory on the targeted wireless device and includes one or more predetermined location routines carried out by the targeted wireless device. The method additionally includes executing at least one of the one or more predetermined location routines on the targeted wireless communication device in response to detecting the location state code in the communication data packet.

The method may additionally include communicating a result of the execution of at least the one or more predetermined routines to at least one of a network entity a service provider and an owner user of the targeted wireless communication device via a secondary wireless communication device or a web interface. In one aspect of the method receiving the communication packet may trigger the wireless device to perform a predetermined sequence of routines corresponding to the one of a plurality of locating states associated with the locating state code. The location states may include but are not limited to a misplaced state a lost state a stolen state a tracking state an emergency surveillance state and a covert surveillance state. The plurality of routines associated with the location states may include but are not limited to disabling a keypad disabling a communication call disabling the wireless device disabling a specific application determining a geographic position capturing a still image capturing a moving image capturing audio enabling a sensory alarm deleting a first set of predetermined user data retrieving a second set of predetermined user data and locking access to a third set of user data.

An alternate related aspect is provided for by at least one processor configured for locating a targeted wireless communication device. The processor includes a first module for receiving at the targeted wireless communication device a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The data packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which the targeted wireless device is operable. Each locating state is stored in a memory on the targeted wireless device and comprises one or more predetermined location routines carried out by the targeted wireless device. The processor additionally includes a second module for executing at least one of the one or more predetermined location routines on the targeted wireless communication device in response to detecting the location state code in the communication data packet.

Another related aspect is defined by a computer program product for locating a targeted wireless communication device that includes a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The communication data packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which the targeted wireless device is operable. Each locating state is stored in a memory on the targeted wireless device and comprises one or more predetermined location routines carried out by the targeted wireless device. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing the computer to execute at least one of the one or more predetermined location routines on the targeted wireless communication device in response to detecting the location state code in the communication data packet.

A further related aspect is provided for by an apparatus that includes means for receiving at the targeted wireless communication device a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The communication data packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which the targeted wireless device is operable. Each locating state is stored in a memory on the targeted wireless device and comprises one or more predetermined location routines carried out by the targeted wireless device. The apparatus additionally includes means for executing at least one of the one or more predetermined location routines on the targeted wireless communication device in response to detecting the location state code in the communication data packet.

Yet another aspect is defined by a wireless communication device. The device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The device includes a communication module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The communication module is operable to receive a communication data packet such as a data call packet or voice call packet having a predetermined format. In one aspect the communication data packet may be a Short Message Service SMS communication data packet. The communication data packet includes a location state code that is associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which the wireless communication device is operable. The wireless communication device also includes a location recovery module for assisting in determining a location or recovering of the wireless communication device. The location recovery module stored in the memory and executable by the processor to operate the wireless communication device in at least one of a plurality of predetermined locating states. The location recovery module further includes a plurality of location routines each corresponding to at least one of the plurality of locating states. The location recovery module is operable to initiate execution of a predetermined one or more of the plurality of location routines based on recognition of the locating state code in the communication data packet.

In some aspects the location recovery module is further operable to communicate results of the execution of the predetermined one or more of the plurality of location routines to at least one of a network entity service provider and a user of the targeted wireless communication device via a secondary wireless device and or a web interface. In some aspects the location recovery module is further operable to trigger the wireless device to perform a predetermined sequence of routines corresponding to the one of a plurality of locating states associated with the locating state code. In some aspects the location recovery module is further operable to store an indicator value of the location state code in a non volatile memory location on the targeted wireless device checking the non volatile memory location when restoring power to the wireless device to determine the indicator value and re enabling the one of the plurality of predetermined locating states corresponding to the indicator value. The plurality of locating states may include but are not limited to a misplaced state a lost state a stolen state a tracking state an emergency surveillance state and a covert surveillance state. The plurality of location routines may include but are not limited to disabling a keypad disabling a communication call disabling the wireless device disabling a specific application determining a geographic position capturing a still image capturing a moving image capturing audio enabling a sensory alarm deleting a first set of predetermined user data retrieving a second set of predetermined user data and locking access to a third set of user data.

Yet another aspect is defined by a method for locating a targeted wireless communication device. The method includes generating a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The communication data packet may correspond to a voice call packet or a data call packet. In one aspect the communication data packet may be a Short Message Service SMS data packet. The communication data packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which a targeted wireless communication device is operable. Each locating state is associated with one or more predetermined routines operable on the targeted wireless communication device. The method also includes communicating the communication data packet to the targeted wireless communication device.

In some aspects the method may include receiving results of execution of the one or more predetermined routines that are executed on the targeted wireless communication device in response to detecting the location state code in the communication data packet. In some aspects generating a communication data packet that includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of locating states associated with a predetermined sequence of routines that trigger the targeted wireless communication device to perform the predetermined sequence of routines. In one aspect in which the communication data packet is a SMS communication packet the packet may include a payload having a location recovery identifier operable to invoke location recovery on the targeted wireless communication device a personal identifier operable to identify the generating party as an authorized party a code associated with one of the plurality of locating states and a variable length field operable to set parameters associated with the one or more predetermined routines.

A related aspect is provided for by at least one processor configured for locating a targeted wireless communication device. The processor includes a first module for generating a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which the targeted wireless communication device is operable. Each locating state is associated with one or more predetermined routines operable on the targeted wireless communication device. The processor includes a second module for communicating the communication data packet to the targeted wireless communication device.

A further related aspect is defined by a computer program product configured for locating a targeted wireless communication device. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium. The medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to generate a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which a targeted wireless communication device is operable. Each locating state is associated with one or more predetermined routines operable on the targeted wireless communication device. The medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing the computer to communicate the communication data packet to the targeted wireless communication device.

Another related aspect is provided for by an apparatus. The apparatus includes means for generating a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which a targeted wireless communication device is operable. Each locating state is associated with one or more predetermined routines operable on the targeted wireless communication device. The apparatus also includes means for communicating the communication data packet to the targeted wireless communication device.

Yet another aspect is defined by a communication device. The communication device may include a secondary wireless communication device a network device such as a web server and or a service provider server or any other device used to locate track and or recover a targeted wireless communication device. The device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The device also includes a communication module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The communication module is operable to generate a communication data packet having a predetermined format. The packet includes a locating state code associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states in which the targeted wireless communication device is operable. Each locating state is associated with one or more predetermined routines operable on the targeted wireless communication device. The communication module is also operable to wirelessly communicate the communication data packet to the targeted wireless communication device.

Thus present aspects provide for methods apparatus devices systems and computer program products for locating tracking and or recovering wireless communication devices that have been misplaced lost or stolen. In addition the aspects provide for tracking or surveillance of the location or user in instances in which the wireless device has been loaned or is being used for covert surveillance. The aspects rely on communicating a locating state code to the targeted device which detects the code and executes one or more routines that are associated with the codes. In this regard the targeted device is capable of carrying out different routines or sequences of routines depending on the state of the device such as misplaced state lost state stolen state or the like.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The various aspects are described herein are in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

Present aspects provide for systems devices apparatus methods and computer program products for locating tracking and attempting to recover wireless communication devices that have been misplaced lost or stolen. In this regard present aspects rely on generating a communication data packet for example a Short Message Service SMS communication data packet at a secondary wireless device a web interface or a network service provider device. The communication data packet includes a locating state code that identifies one of a plurality of locating states that are operable on the targeted i.e. the misplaced lost or stolen wireless communication device. The locating states are associated with one or more predetermined routines that are operable on the targeted wireless device. In some aspects the locating state may be associated with a sequence of routines that are triggered on the device.

The routines may effectively disable lock the wireless communication device and or disable any application running on the wireless device such as a communication call application. In addition to disabling or locking the device the routines may trigger jamming or scrambling of communication signals such as voice or data signals. Additionally the routines may trigger audible visual or sensory perceptible alerts to the possessor of the device that identify the device as being lost or stolen. The routines may additionally capture data such as geographic location data image data audio data and the like and communicate the data to the owner user of the targeted device to a network entity device or to a service provider device. In turn the captured and retrieved information may be used to locate the device and or the party who is in possession of the targeted device. Also once data is captured and retrieved from the wireless device routines may provide for data to be removed deleted from the device. Additionally the routines that capture and communicate data may be operated in a stealth mode so that conventional indicators that would normally be presented such as displayed lights or messages or audible tones are suppressed to insure that the finder thief is unaware that these routines are currently being executed. Also the routines may change an operational mode such as changing the targeted device from a silent or vibrate ring state to an audible ring state.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of a system for remotely accessing a wireless communication device that has been misplaced lost or stolen to initiate the locating tracking and or attempted recovery of present aspects. The user owner of the targeted wireless communication device which may be categorized as misplaced device a lost device a stolen device or a device that requires tracking or surveillance may remotely access the device through various communication channels. The communication channels provide for generating and communicating a communication data packet such as an SMS message or the like which includes a locating state code for identifying one of a plurality of locating states for example a misplaced state a lost state a stolen state a tracking state a surveillance state such as an emergency surveillance state or a covert surveillance state and the like that are operable on the targeted wireless communication device. As will be described at length infra. the locating states are associated with one or more predetermined location routines that are operable on the targeted wireless device. In many aspects a locating state is associated with a predetermined sequence of routines or actions that are executed to locate track and attempt to recover the target device .

As shown in the user owner may borrow or otherwise obtain an alternate or secondary wireless communication device to generate and communicate the requisite communication data packet to the targeted device. In addition the user owner may interface with a web interface through a PC laptop not shown in or any other device having network access to the Internet. In such aspects user owner will provide necessary inputs to the web interface to initiate the generation and communication of the requisite communication data packet to the targeted device. In another aspect user owner may communicate with a network service provider entity and the network service provider entity may provide the necessary inputs to a network server to initiate the generation and communication of the requisite communication data packet to the targeted device. Alternatively any other communication mechanism capable of generating and communicating the necessary communication data packet to the target device may also be used to initiate the location tracking and attempted recovery process according to the present aspects.

Additionally target device may be operable to execute emergency covert surveillance routine that provides surveillance of a location if an emergency event requiring surveillance occurs. For example if a major accident occurs such as an automobile accident or a kidnapping abduction occurs. The emergency covert surveillance routine may be operable to activate the still or moving image capture routine to capture still or moving image data the geographic location determining routine for determining location the audio capture routine for capturing audio and the like. Additionally as shown in the targeted device may be operable to execute input mechanism application and or device disablement routine that may operable to disable any input mechanism such as the keypad any application executable on the device such as communication call applications or disable the device in its entirety. The targeted device may also be operable to execute various forms of sensory alarm routines . Sensory alarm routines may trigger audible alarms such as a series of periodic or continuous audible tones or a pre recorded message visual alarms such as messages displayed on the target device display or vibrational alarms which cause the device to vibrate periodically or continually. Sensory alarm routines serve to acknowledge to the general public that the device is misplaced lost or stolen. The emergency covert surveillance routine may be operated when the emergency surveillance state is invoked or the emergency covert surveillance routine may be operated in a stealth mode when the covert surveillance state is invoked.

Additionally the target device may be operable to execute power reserve routine that is operable maintaining a power reserve for the location tracking and or recovery process. For example power may be reserved for determining location GPS fixes capturing image data and communicating with the remote communication device such as a secondary wireless device PC or network entity.

In addition the target device may be operable to execute any other locating tracking recovery and or surveillance routine that may be operable to assist in accomplishing recovery of the target device . For example the locating routine may include a routine for changing an operational mode such as changing the targeted device from a silent vibrate or low volume ring state to an audible or high volume ring state. Often the user of the targeted device will misplace the device while the device is in the silent vibration or low volume ring state. These states prohibit the device from being located by merely calling the device and listening for the ring tone. In addition in certain instances it may be necessary to change the misplaced targeted device from an off state to an on state prior to changing the ring tone state or performing other locating routines on the targeted wireless device. Other locating tracking recovery and surveillance routines may include routines operable for jamming scrambling or otherwise corrupting the communication data such as voice data text data image data or the like. Referring to a block diagram is depicted of the system for locating tracking and attempting recovery of a target wireless communication device . As previous discussed a remote computing device is employed to generate and communicate the requisite communication data packet to the target device . The remote device may include but is not limited to an alternate or secondary wireless device in the possession of the user owner of the targeted device a PC accessible to the user owner and having access to a web interface operable for generating and communicating the requisite communication data packet and a network entity device operated by network service provider representative . The target device which may be in the possession of finder thief receives the communication data packet detects the locating state code in the communication that is associated with a locating state and executes one or more locating routines associated with the locating state.

The remote computing device includes a computer platform having a processor and a memory . The memory includes a communications module operable for generating and communicating communication data packet which may correspond to a voice call packet or a data call packet. In one aspect communication data packet is defined as a Short Message Service SMS data packet. which will be discussed in detail infra. provides for an exemplary payload for an SMS data packet according to an aspect. The communication data packet will include a locating state code that is associated with one of a plurality of locating states which are operable on the target device . Each locating state may be associated with one or more location routines that are executable on the target devices .

The targeted wireless communication device includes a computer platform having a processor and a memory . The memory includes communications module operable for receiving communication data packet which as previously discussed may correspond to a voice call packet or a data call packet. In one aspect communication data packet is defined as a Short Message Service SMS data packet. The communication module is operable to parse the locating state code from the communication data packet and communicate the locating state code to the location recovery module . The location recovery module is operable for matching the locating state code to an associated locating state and triggering the execution of the locating routines that are associated with the locating state. Examples of locating states include but are not limited to a misplaced state a lost state a stolen state a tracking state a surveillance state such as an emergency surveillance state or a covert surveillance state and the like. Additionally each state may include sub states for varying the routines associated with a state or varying the sequence in which routines are executed. As previously noted each location state is associated with one or more location routines and in some aspects the location state may be associated with a predetermined sequence of routines. Examples of location routines include but are not limited to an input mechanism disablement routine an application disablement routine a device enablement disablement routine a device state change routine such as a ring state change routine a geographic location determining routine a still image capture routine a moving image capture routine an audio capture routine a sensory alarm routine a user data retrieval routine a user data deletion routine a user data lockdown routine a captured data upload routine and the like.

Referring to an exemplary payload of a SMS communication data packet is shown. As previously discussed SMS may be used as the communication module for communicating the requisite communication data packet from the remote device or to the target device . The payload may include a location retrieval application identifier field operable for identifying the payload upon receipt by the target device as being associated with the locating retrieval application. The payload may additionally include personal user owner identifier field operable for identifying the user network service provider representative or the like as an authorized entity for implementing the location recovery application on the target device . In this regard authentication insures that the target device is not placed in a locating state by an unauthorized individual or entity. The payload may additionally include a locating state code field operable for identifying the locating state that is to be operational on the target device .

The payload of SMS communication data packet may include a variable length field operable for setting parameters for the one or more routines that are associated with the locating state. For example parameter settings may include the frequency required for location determinations the frequency at which images or audio are captured the memory location of data that is required to be deleted an audible message to be produced a visual message to be displayed or the like. In this regard the variable length field provides for the parameters related to the location routine to be dynamically defined by the user owner and or network service provider based on the current requirements dictated by the user owner and or network service provider.

Referring to according to one aspect a detailed block diagram representation of targeted wireless communication device is depicted. The wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods for sharing locating and attempting recovery of a wireless communication device can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as communication module and location recovery module stored in the memory of target wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices. In some aspects API may serve to launch the location routines upon receipt of the communication data packet detection of the accompanying locating state code and determination of the associated locating state . Alternatively one or more of the location routines may be in an always on state running in the background on the target device otherwise referred to as a silent mode and are awaiting receipt of the communication data packet detection of the accompanying locating state code and determination of the associated locating state prior to moving to an active state that captures data activates an alarm or performs another location related action.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity .

For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the communication module and location recovery module . For example processing subsystems may include locating and tracking devices applications that are implemented in conjunction with locating routines . Exemplary processing subsystems may include imager camera Global Positioning System GPS sensor alarm motion detector audio recorder scrambler and any other apparatus that is implemented in relation to a locating routine . Alternatively one or more of the processing subsystems shown in may exist as modules applications and or logic stored in memory .

The memory of computer platform includes communications module operable for receiving communication data packet which as previously discussed may correspond to a voice call packet or a data call packet. In one aspect communication data packet is defined as a Short Message Service SMS data packet. The communication module is operable to identify the communication data packet based on payload identification as being a location recovery communication data packet. Additionally the communication module is operable to authenticate the sender of the communication data packet based on an authentication identifier in the payload. The communication module is operable to parse the locating state code from the communication data packet and communicate the locating state code to the location recovery module . Additionally communication module may be operable to parse the variable length field that includes locating routine parameters and communicate the locating routine parameters to the location recovery module .

The memory of computer platform also includes location recovery module that includes location recovery logic operable to match the locating state code to one of a plurality of locating states. The location recovery module is operable for matching the locating state code to an associated locating state and triggering the execution of the locating routines that are associated with the locating state. Examples of locating states include but are not limited to a misplaced state a lost state a stolen state a tracking state a surveillance state such as an emergency surveillance state or covert surveillance state and the like. Additionally each state may include sub states for example a major lost state and a minor lost state for varying the routines associated with a state or varying the sequence in which routines are executed. The location recovery logic may also be operable for applying the locating routine parameters to the applicable location routine .

Additionally location recovery logic may be operable to place a locating state identifier flag in a non volatile portion of memory to identify the current location state that the target device is experiencing. By placing locating state identifier flag in non volatile memory the device is insured of returning to the current location state if the device temporarily loses power for example if the battery is removed followed by the subsequent restoration of power. The locating state identifier flag may define an associated expiration parameter that dictates removal of the identifier flag from the memory after a stated period of time or an additional communication data packet may be received that provides for the termination of a locating state and the deletion of the identifier flag from memory .

The memory of of computer platform also includes one or more location routines that are associated with one or more of the plurality of locating states . As shown location routines may include but are not limited to audio capture routine image capture routine location determination routine sensory alarm alert routine emergency covert surveillance routine user interface disablement routine application device disablement routine user data lockdown retrieval deletion routine reserve power routine and any other locating related routine . The audio capture routine and the image capture routine are operable to record audio and still and or moving images periodically or based on the occurrence of an event for example a call event. The audio and image data may subsequently be used to determine the identity of the finder thief of the wireless device or identify the location of the device based on the surrounding environment. The location determination routine is operable to determine a geographic location of the target device using GPS sensors or any other conventional means of determining geographic location. Captured image and or audio data and geographic location data may be periodically updated to the user owner of the target device via the secondary wireless device and or a web interface a network entity such as a server associated with a web interface and or a network service provider representative for subsequent analysis for attempting to determine the location of the lost stolen device and or the identity of the finder thief. Additionally the audio capture routine the image capture routine and the location determination routine may be executed in a stealth mode so that conventional indicators that would normally be presented such as displayed lights or messages or audible tones are suppressed to insure that the finder thief is unaware that these routines are currently being executed. The stealth mode may be the mode of choice for a covert surveillance state.

The sensory alarm alert routine may be operable to provide audible visual or vibrational alarms on the device. For example an audible alarm may be provided periodically continually and or at an increasing volume to identify the device as a misplaced lost or stolen device. The audible alarm may also be configured to present an audible voice message that may be defined within the routine or the voice message may be provided to the routine dynamically via the variable length field in the communication data packet. In another aspect the alarm alert routine may be configured to provide a visual alarm or message that may be displayed on the device. The message that is displayed may be defined within the routine or the message may be provided to the routine dynamically via the variable length field in the communication data packet. For example in one aspect if the device is lost user contact information may be displayed for contacting the user owner of the device or a self addressed or network service provider addressed shipping label with pre postage may be displayed to allow the finder of the device to conveniently place the device in a postal box for delivery to the user owner or service provider. In other aspects the alarm alert routine may be configured to vibrate the device either periodically or continually to alert the finder thief that the device is misplaced lost or stolen.

The emergency covert surveillance routine is operable to provide surveillance of a location if an emergency event requiring surveillance occurs for example if a major accident occurs such as an automobile accident or a kidnapping abduction occurs. In these instances a targeted wireless communication device in the possession of an accident kidnapping victim or someone close to the accident kidnapping may be remotely accessed via a secondary wireless device PC and or network device in the control of a law enforcement entity an emergency service provider or any other person entity concerned with the safety and welfare of the victims. Additionally other remote devices may signal the targeted wireless device for initiating the surveillance routine . For example air bags in an automobile may be configured to send upon deployment a wireless signal to the targeted wireless communication device to activate the surveillance routine . In addition the targeted wireless communication device may be configured to self activate the emergency covert surveillance routine if a event occurs such as placement of an emergency call e.g. a 911 call or detection of impact of an automobile accident based on a motion detector processing subsystem in the targeted wireless device .

The emergency covert surveillance routine may be operable to activate the still or moving image capture routine to capture still or moving image data the geographic location determining routine for determining location the audio capture routine for capturing audio and the like. In certain aspects the remote surveillance requesting party such as a law enforcement agency emergency service provider or the like may have the ability to remotely control the surveillance mechanisms once they are activated. For example the surveillance requesting party may be able to provide inputs to a user interface to remotely access and control the image capturing devices such as controlling movement and direction of the image capturing device and the like. Once the information is captured it may be wirelessly communicated to the requesting entity or any other law enforcement entity emergency service provider or the like. In a kidnapping event or any other event involving a criminal party the surveillance routine may be operated in a stealth mode so that conventional indicators that would normally be presented such as displayed lights or messages or audible tones are suppressed to insure that the kidnapper criminal is unaware that these routines are currently being executed. For example if the location state is defined as a covert surveillance state the surveillance routine may be operated in the stealth mode to elude the perception of surveillance from wrongdoers.

The user interface disablement routine and the application device disablement routine are operable to disable a user input mechanism or output mechanism such as the keypad or touch screen of the target device any application that is executable on the device such as a communication call application a contact phone book application and or the like or disable the device in its entirety. The user interfaces applications and or the device may be disabled permanently or disabled periodically to allow for the device to periodically capture data such as image and or audio data determine location and upload the data accordingly.

The user data lockdown retrieval deletion routine may be operable to lockdown the user data to prohibit a finder thief from accessing any or all of the user data. The user data retrieval deletion routine may also be operable to retrieve the user data from the device communicate the retrieved data to a network database and subsequently delete the user data from the targeted device.

The reserve power routine may be operable to maintaining a power reserve for the location tracking and or recovery process. For example power may be reserved for determining location GPS fixes capturing image data and communicating with the remote communication device such as a secondary wireless device PC or network entity. The power reserve routine may implement a timer to awaken power up the device at predetermined intervals for determining a location capturing image data setting off a sensory alarm and or communicating with the remote communication device. In addition the power reserve routine may implement a timer to provide for the device to execute a sleep mode standby mode or auto shutoff after a predetermined time period. In alternate aspects the reserve power routine may implement and or the targeted wireless device may include a back up power supply such as a secondary battery or solar cell that is implemented if the primary battery is removed or damaged such as removal damage by a thief criminal or the like. In addition to primary power source failure or exhaustion the reserve power routine and or back up power supply may be executed or implemented in response to predetermined events including but not limited to periodic time intervals an SMS message an emergency signal a voice command or the like.

Other locating related routines may include but are not limited to a routine for changing an operational mode such as changing the targeted device from an off state to an on state or a limited on state . Additionally changing an operational mode may include changing from a silent vibrate or low volume ring state to an audible or high volume ring state to facilitate locating a misplaced lost or stolen targeted device.

Additionally locating related routines may include a communication corruption routine operable for corrupting any and or all communication transmitted from and received by the targeted wireless device . For example a communication corruption routine may jam communications such as voice data and the like by introducing noise or otherwise scrambling any and or all transmitted and received communication signals. In such aspects the wireless device may include a scrambler in the processing subsystems that may be remotely accessed. The scrambler is operable to inject random noise into all communications including voice text images and video data. The scrambler may also use a secondary radio transmitter for example to emit a jamming signal with additional white Gaussian noise.

As previously noted the locating state is associated with one or more locating routines and in some aspects the locating state is associated with a sequence of locating routines. For example a stolen state may define a sequence of locating routines that initially perform location determination routine audio capture routine and or image capture routine followed by sensory alarm routine user data lockdown retrieval deletion routine and or disablement routines and or . In another example a misplaced state may define a sequence of sensory alarm routine followed by lockdown retrieval deletion routine and or disablement routines and if the device is not located within a prescribed time period.

Additionally as previously noted target wireless communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provide for user input to interface with an application such as communication module and or location recovery module . Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display operable to display messages or visual alerts alarms to the finder thief of the target device .

Referring to according to another aspect a detailed block diagram of a computing device operable to generate and communicate a communication data packet that includes a location state code. The computing device may include any type of computerized communication device such as personal computer PC cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and or may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wired or wireless computing device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across a wired or wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present computing apparatus and associated methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wired or wireless computing device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The computing device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless and or wired network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device.

Memory of computer platform additionally includes communications module operable for generating and communicating communication data packet which may correspond to a voice call packet or a data call packet. In one aspect communication data packet is defined as a Short Message Service SMS data packet. The communication data packet may include a location recovery identifier operable for identifying the communication data packet as a location recovery related communication data packet that provides for executing the related location recovery module upon receipt by the target device . The communication data packet may additionally include a personal user owner identifier operable for authenticating the user owner of the target device and or the network service provider as an individual or entity authorized to perform location tracking and or recovery on the target device . Additionally the communication data packet includes a locating state code that is associated with one of a plurality of locating states which are operable on the target device . Each locating state may be associated with one or more location routines that are executable on the target devices . The communication data packet may additionally include locating routine parameters defined in variable length field that allows for text inputs. By defining locating routine parameters in the communication data packet the user owner of the target device or the authorized sending entity is able to dynamically control the location tracking and attempted recovery of the target device.

The memory of computer platform may include recovery module that includes recovery analysis logic operable for analyzing the data captured by the target device. The recovery analysis logic may analyze captured and uploaded geographic location data image data and or audio data to determine the location of the target device and or the identity of the finder thief. While the recovery module is depicted as being embodied in the same device that generates and sends the communication data packet to the target device to initiate the location recovery process in many aspects the recovery module may be embodied in a separate network device such as a service provider controlled network device a tracking service controlled network device a law enforcement controlled network device or the like.

In network personal computer can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN . Further a network server such as service provider server may be in communication with network device via the wired network . PC and network server may generate and communicate communication data packets and upload location related captured data from the target device . PC and network server may be present on the cellular telephone network with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. PC and or network server communicate with carrier network through data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communication devices and by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method for locating a wireless communication device is depicted. At Event a targeted wireless communication device receives a communication data packet. The communication data packet has a predetermined format such as SMS or like and includes a locating state code. The locating state code is associated with one of a plurality of predetermined locating states which are operable on the targeted wireless device is operable. Each locating state is stored in a memory on the targeted wireless device and includes one or more predetermined location routines carried out by the targeted wireless device. The locating state may include but is not limited to a misplaced state a lost state a stolen state a tracking state a surveillance state such as an emergency surveillance state or covert surveillance state and the like. Receiving the communication data packet may trigger the target wireless device to perform a predetermined sequence of routines corresponding to the one of a plurality of locating states associated with the locating state code. Additionally the communication data packet may include a variable length field for dynamically setting parameters associated with the one or more predetermined routines. In most aspects the communication data packet is received wirelessly from a remote device however in some aspects the communication data packet may be internally generated and received.

At Event the target wireless device executes at least one of the one or more predetermined location routines on the targeted wireless communication device in response to detecting the location state code in the communication data packet. The location routines may include but are not limited to disabling a keypad disabling a communication call disabling enabling the wireless device disabling a specific application changing an operational state of the wireless device such as changing the ring state of the device determining a geographic position capturing a still image capturing a moving image capturing audio enabling a sensory alarm deleting a first set of predetermined user data retrieving a second set of predetermined user data and locking access to a third set of user data. Executing the routines may further include operating the wireless device in a stealth mode that disables output by the wireless device of user perceptible indicators generated during execution of the one or more predetermined location routines in a non stealth mode. The stealth mode is commonly implemented during a covert surveillance state.

At optional Event the target wireless communication device may communicate data that results from the execution of at least the one or more predetermined routines to at least one of a network entity a service provider and a user of the targeted wireless communication device. In this regard geographic location data image data and audio data may be uploaded or otherwise communicated to a network entity a service provider and a user of the targeted wireless communication device.

At Event the communication data packets are communicated to the targeted wireless communication device and at optional Event receiving data resulting from the execution of the one or more predetermined routines on the targeted wireless communication device in response to detecting the location state code in the communication data packet.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus present aspects provide for methods devices systems and computer program products for locating tracking and or recovering wireless communication devices that have been misplaced lost or stolen. In addition the aspects provide for tracking or surveillance of the location or user in instances in which the wireless device has been loaned or is being used for covert surveillance. The aspects rely on communicating a locating state code to the targeted device which detects the code and executes one or more routines that are associated with the codes. In this regard the targeted device is capable of carrying out different routines or sequences of routines depending on the state of the device such as misplaced state lost state stolen state or the like.

Many modifications and other aspects will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the aspect is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

