---

title: Logically centralized scrap management using planning operations
abstract: The present disclosure relates to methods, systems, and software for processing or otherwise managing scrap information in a business application. For example, the software can instantiate a planning business object using production model data for production activities. The business object data and scrap information may be used to calculate requirements for a production planning model. The calculations may include adding an activity yield to activity scrap and fixed resource scrap to generate a component quantity. The component quantity can be multiplied by a component scrap ratio to generate additional component requirements. The component quantity may be added to the additional component requirements to determine a total quantity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08190461&OS=08190461&RS=08190461
owner: SAP AG
number: 08190461
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20070420
---
This disclosure relates to inventory or production management and more particularly to systems and software implementing logically centralized scrap management.

Modern businesses typically employ software such as an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP program that is configured to manage a portion or all of the business s inventory production sales personnel contacts billing and so forth. For example a business may utilize such software to help manage production. Part of this management may include calculating and planning the scrap quantity that will result from production of an item component or kit. These scrap quantities can then be included in the planning run and in the calculation of production costs. In some existing software three scrap calculations may be supported namely assembly scrap i.e. the scrap that results from the production of an assembly component scrap i.e. the scrap of a component that may break during production of an assembly and operation scrap i.e. faulty materials that were taken into account in assembly scrap may not be passed on to the next operation and instead removed . In certain cases assembly scrap increases the order quantity of the assembly and subsequently increases the order quantity for corresponding components. The dependent requirements of the material components can therefore be increased correspondingly. With respect to component scrap the dependent requirements can increase quantity of the component. If a scrap quantity was planned for a higher level assembly assembly scrap and component scrap are added to the component level. Operation scrap commonly refers to the quantity of one component that is to be processed in an operation such that the planning run is more exact and service and quantity consumption can be determined more precisely. If the component is contained in an assembly for which an assembly scrap quantity has been maintained the system may only take the operation scrap into account.

The present disclosure relates to methods systems and software for processing or otherwise managing scrap information in a business application. The scrap information may include activity scrap fixed resource scrap and component scrap. The software can be operable to instantiate a planning business object using production model data for production activities. The business object data and scrap information may be used to calculate requirements for a production planning model. The calculations may include adding an activity yield to activity scrap and fixed resource scrap to generate a component quantity. The component quantity can be multiplied by a component scrap ratio to generate additional component requirements. The component quantity may be added to the additional component requirements to determine a total quantity. Requirements may be calculated for various activities and can include an activity duration. The duration can be calculated by multiplying the component quantity and the duration per component. The calculation of the requirements may include calculating each requirement for each activity beginning after a process has begun.

The software may be further operable to perform one or more scrap checks during initialization of the planning business object. The scrap check may include identifying the component scrap from a material master object if a particular bill of material object does not store the component scrap. In some cases the scrap check may include converting a unit of measure for the fixed resource scrap if the fixed resource scrap unit of measure does not match a unit of measure of the particular component for the activity.

Moreover some or all of these aspects may be further included in respective systems or other devices for executing implementing or otherwise managing scrap information. The details of these and other aspects and embodiments of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the various embodiments will be apparent from the description and drawings as well as from the claims.

The present disclosure relates to methods systems and software for processing or otherwise managing scrap information in a business application. Such business applications can utilize many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. For example this business software may be designed to utilize business objects. Business objects are typically objects in an object oriented computer program that encapsulate various business related tasks. For example an inventory program may employ business objects to represent warehouses sources of supply vendors items and the like. Typically business objects encapsulate all of the data and behavior associated with the business process or entity that it represents. For example a business object may be responsible for loading an order from a database modifying any data associated with that order and then saving the order back to the database. Utilizing business objects to help manage scrap information helps provide better possible coverage of the requirements of manufacturing business.

Specifically scrap information can be mapped e.g. accounted for in a business model into scrap related to assembly production operations resources and other business activities. In general the scrap information may be mapped and maintained in the business application. This business application may use various models to apply planning and costing functionalities to scrap quantities. For example the business application may use scrap information and a master planning business object to dynamically calculate production planning requirements that reflect the assignment of scrap to a particular product or assembly. In some cases the mapping process may provide the ability to include scrap costs in a material requirements document e.g. bill of material for a particular product or assembly. As such the entire cost of creating and or assembling a product and the amount of scrap product created can be determined and stored in a material master object. The material master object generally includes basic information used to manage a particular material. The data may be of a descriptive nature e.g. size dimension weight etc. and data with a control function e.g. material type industry sector etc. . Moreover such functionality may be used on scrap information to determine excess consumption of materials and services. In particular the business application can automatically add scrap information to a set of material requirements for a production order proposal for example.

The business application may also employ a scrap management system able to generally outline system procedures in materials planning which can account for and plan some or all future requirements during the creation of order proposals e.g. independent requirements dependent requirements and so on . The scrap management system may instantiate business objects and models in order to calculate requirements for production planning and to release scrap information or other documents. In short while generally described as business application the scrap management system may include any tool application programming interface API application or environment that allows a user to modify configure and utilize the stored scrap information and related data. In certain cases the production planning system may provide on demand cross organizational capabilities such as virtual networks of business partners who can obtain visibility of scrap quantities across a whole supply chain.

In some embodiments the techniques and components in this disclosure may operate independent of their calling software applications. As such messaging updates and document exchanges can be performed synchronously or asynchronously using eXtensible Markup Language XML documents Virtual Storage Access Method VSAM files flat files Btrieve files comma separated value CSV files or user interfaces. Document exchanges such as scrap reports may be received or retrieved in an interface internally e.g. production planning module or externally e.g. production or assembly site . In some embodiments the inventory management system can receive an XML document containing a stock modification e.g. a physical movement of inventory directly from an external interface

Turning to an example scrap management system for calculating production planning requirements using business data and scrap information is illustrated. When appropriate the system may utilize a production planning module to map production scrap to the appropriate business objects e.g. master planning business object or other business entity. The system includes a server for managing the business objects and applications that host scrap information details. The server can typically be accessed in a stand alone fashion such as a website within any suitable productivity tool whether enterprise software email application and others selected by the user or automatically interfaced or in a cooperative fashion with a third party search engine. In other words system may manage and share a knowledge base of software assets or other data services often using metadata that can easily be integrated into different developer and end user tools.

System is typically a distributed client server system that spans one or more networks such as network . As described above rather than being delivered as packaged software system may represent a hosted solution often for an enterprise or other small business that may scale cost effectively and help drive faster adoption. In this case portions of the hosted solution may be utilized by a first entity while other components are utilized by a second entity. Moreover the processes or activities of the hosted solution may be distributed amongst these entities and their respective components as well as other business partners in the supply chain. In some embodiments system may be in a dedicated enterprise environment across a local area network or subnet or any other suitable environment without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

Turning to the illustrated embodiment system includes or is communicably coupled such as via a one bi or multi directional link or network with server production point assembly point and one or more clients at least some of which communicate across network . Server comprises an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process and store data associated with system . Generally provides merely one example of computers that may be used with the disclosure. Each computer is generally intended to encompass any suitable processing device. For example although illustrates one server that may be used with the disclosure system can be implemented using computers other than servers as well as a server pool. Indeed server may be any computer or processing device such as for example a blade server general purpose personal computer PC Macintosh workstation Unix based computer or any other suitable device. In other words the present disclosure contemplates computers other than general purpose computers as well as computers without conventional operating systems. Server may be adapted to execute any operating system including Linux UNIX Windows Server or any other suitable operating system. According to one embodiment server may also include or be communicably coupled with a web server and or a mail server.

Illustrated server often includes local memory . Memory may include any memory or database module and may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component. Illustrated memory includes a master planning business object and a material master object . But memory may also include any other appropriate data such as HTML files or templates messages data classes or object interfaces unillustrated software applications or sub systems and others. Consequently memory may be considered a repository of data such as a local scrap information repository for one or more applications.

Master planning business object may generally represents a logically centralized object for storing and or managing scrap information. Often this business object is executed or invoked and may represent a scrap document or link including the scrap information for one or more components. In this fashion multiple implementations or instances of the particular or similar business objects may reference or link to the scrap document. As shown in the master planning business object includes or references data structures for activity scrap fixed resource scrap and component scrap . The various scrap types may provide information for system such that the system may dynamically calculate production requirements e.g. materials labor and other activities for a business application for example. Activity scrap represents a total of possible variable causally indistinguishable scrap arising from one stage of production. For example one activity e.g. component placement board assembly and such may produce a known level of activity scrap each time the activity is performed. Fixed resource scrap represents scrap that arises when a machine produces a set number of rejected items regardless of a run quantity. For example fixed resource scrap may arise out of tooling and setup activities for a product or assembly. Component scrap may be used to record scrap from production of a particular component in an assembly. It may cause an increase in component requirement quantities but generally does not impact production time or resource consumption. In some embodiments the component scrap is defined in the bill of material for a particular assembly. The component scrap may provide details about how much scrap is expected for the mounting of the assembly.

Although only three types of scrap are depicted master planning business object may include any or all scrap information according to accounting records. In some embodiments the master planning business object may also include assembly scrap and other types of scrap as deemed usable by the system . Assembly scrap is an approximate value for the quantity of assemblies rejected. Further assembly scrap is generally not entered manually but is instead calculated as the arithmetic mean of activity scrap . Assembly scrap may be recorded and stored for pricing and controlling purposes in the system.

In general the scrap type can be assigned according to which activity material or process produces the scrap. In one embodiment the material master object may assign the scrap type. The material master object may represent a data record containing basic information required to manage a material. This data can be sorted according to various criteria. In addition to this data the material master object may include data that is automatically updated by the system such as stock levels . The material master object data can be directly maintained by a user at the production point or the assembly point or another client of the system .

In this disclosure the term material represents a tangible product such as a sellable article packaging auxiliary material or expendable supplies. As such the material master object may include a description for any or all of the aforementioned materials. Similarly the term product represents a commodity that is the object of the business of a company and serves to create value for this company. A product can be tangible or intangible. A product can have relationships to other products or objects.

Scrap material can generally be created at a production point and an assembly point . The production point can house tools equipment and operators to transform raw materials into finished components. Similarly assembly point may create scrap while assembly finished goods and products. In general the production point may receive a bill of material to create a product. The bill of material may include a structured list that defines and describes the components that are used in the production of a material or product. In some embodiments the expected scrap values for fixed resource scrap can be included in the bill of material. The assembly point may receive instructions from the production point . For example the bill of material may be electronically transferred from point to point to ensure proper build instructions and updated scrap quantities.

In some embodiments production point and assembly point may be internal or external to a company and may be located in the same area or building. For example a third party manufacturing site may have both a production point and an assembly point to carry out operations. In other embodiments the production point may be at a separate facility that the assembly point . In operation the production point and assembly point may create scrap information internally or externally. The scrap information can be transferred between production and assembly and further may be transferred to any or all of server or client for example.

Returning to server it also includes processor . Processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of server such as for example a central processing unit CPU a blade an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA . Although illustrates a single processor in server multiple processors may be used according to particular needs and reference to processor is meant to include multiple processors where applicable. In the illustrated embodiment processor executes or requests execution of at least business application and production planning module .

The techniques and components described herein may be implemented within an enterprise resource computing system such as business application . At a high level business application is any application program module process or other software that may change delete generate or otherwise manage scrap information according to the present disclosure. The business application may be stored in a nonvolatile storage location such as a distributed storage device or other repository perhaps exterior to the server and some or all be transferred to memory for active use by the system . Memory may include point to reference or otherwise store business data used by the business application or the production planning module . In certain cases system may implement a composite application . For example portions of the composite application may be implemented as Enterprise Java Beans EJBs or design time components may have the ability to generate run time implementations into different platforms such as J2EE Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition ABAP Advanced Business Application Programming objects or Microsoft s .NET. Application may be a child or sub module of another software module or enterprise application not illustrated without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Indeed application may be a hosted solution that allows multiple parties in different portions of the process to perform the respective processing. For example client may access application on server or even as a hosted application located over network without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

More specifically business application may be a composite application or an application built on other applications that includes an object access layer OAL and a service layer. In this example application may execute or provide a number of application services such as customer relationship management CRM systems human resources management HRM systems financial management FM systems project management PM systems knowledge management KM systems and electronic file and mail systems. Such an object access layer is operable to exchange data with a plurality of enterprise base systems and to present the data to a composite application through a uniform interface. The example service layer is operable to provide services to the composite application. These layers may help composite application to orchestrate a business process in synchronization with other existing processes e.g. native processes of enterprise base systems and leverage existing investments in the IT platform. Further composite application may run on a heterogeneous IT platform. In doing so composite application may be cross functional in that it may drive business processes across different applications technologies and organizations. Accordingly composite application may drive end to end business processes across heterogeneous systems or sub systems. Application may also include or be coupled with a persistence layer and one or more application system connectors. Such application system connectors enable data exchange and integration with enterprise sub systems and may include an Enterprise Connector EC interface an Internet Communication Manager Internet Communication Framework ICM ICF interface an Encapsulated PostScript EPS interface and or other interfaces that provide Remote Function Call RFC capability. It will be understood that while this example describes the composite application it may instead be a standalone or relatively simple software program. Regardless application may also perform processing automatically which may indicate that the appropriate processing is substantially performed by at least one component of system . It should be understood that this disclosure further contemplates any suitable administrator or other user interaction with application or other components of system without departing from its original scope. Finally it will be understood that system may utilize or be coupled with various instances of business applications . For example client may run a first business application that is communicably coupled with a second business application . Each business application may represent different solutions versions or modules available from one or a plurality of software providers or developed in house. In some instances multiple business applications may request scrap calculations to be performed in parallel using the same production planning module .

At a high level production planning module is any application program module process or other software that may instantiate a logically centralized master planning business object using production model data for an activity and calculate production planning requirements such as materials resources and expected scrap from the data. More particularly the production planning module can be generated from a production model to release production data e.g. materials scrap activities operations and so forth for planning purposes. The production planning module may include production bill of operations data and production bill of material data used for the planning of production processes. The production planning module may be used to create production planning orders including scrap information for each order. In particular the production planning module may calculate requirements for the production planning model using master planning business object and scrap information and . Further details regarding the production planning module will be described with respect to .

Server may also include interface for communicating with other computer systems such as clients over network in a client server or other distributed environment. In certain embodiments server receives data from internal or external senders through interface for storage in memory and or processing by processor . Generally interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with network . More specifically interface may comprise software supporting one or more communications protocols associated with communications network or hardware operable to communicate physical signals.

Network facilitates wireless or wireline communication between computer server and any other local or remote computer such as clients . Network may be all or a portion of an enterprise or secured network. In another example network may be a VPN merely between server and client across wireline or wireless link. Such an example wireless link may be via 802.11a 802.11b 802.11 g 802.20 WiMax and many others. While illustrated as a single or continuous network network may be logically divided into various sub nets or virtual networks without departing from the scope of this disclosure so long as at least portion of network may facilitate communications between server and at least one client . For example server may be communicably coupled to one or more local repositories through one sub net while communicably coupled to a particular client or remote repositories through another. In other words network encompasses any internal or external network networks sub network or combination thereof operable to facilitate communications between various computing components in system . Network may communicate for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and other suitable information between network addresses. Network may include one or more local area networks LANs radio access networks RANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs all or a portion of the global computer network known as the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. In certain embodiments network may be a secure network associated with the enterprise and certain local or remote clients .

Client is any computing device operable to connect or communicate with server or network using any communication link. For example client is intended to encompass a personal computer touch screen terminal workstation network computer kiosk wireless data port smart phone personal data assistant PDA one or more processors within these or other devices or any other suitable processing device. At a high level each client includes or executes at least GUI and comprises an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process and store any appropriate data associated with system . It will be understood that there may be any number of clients communicably coupled to server . Further client business partner and user may be used interchangeably as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Moreover for ease of illustration each client is described in terms of being used by one user. But this disclosure contemplates that many users may use one computer or that one user may use multiple computers. For example client may be a PDA operable to wirelessly connect with an external or unsecured network. In another example client may comprise a laptop that includes an input device such as a barcode scanner RFID scanner keypad touch screen mouse or other device that can accept information and an output device that conveys information associated with the operation of server or clients including digital data visual information or GUI . Both the input device and output device may include fixed or removable storage media such as a magnetic computer disk CD ROM USB drive or other suitable media to both receive input from and provide output to users of clients through the display namely the client portion of GUI or application interface .

GUI comprises a graphical user interface operable to allow the user of client to interface with at least a portion of system for any suitable purpose such as viewing application inventory or other transaction data. Generally GUI provides the particular user with an efficient and user friendly presentation of data provided by or communicated within system . For example GUI may present the user with the components and information that is relevant to their task increase reuse of such components and facilitate a sizable developer community around those components. GUI may comprise a plurality of customizable frames or views having interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operated by the user. For example GUI is operable to display certain data services in a user friendly form based on the user context and the displayed data. In another example GUI is operable to display different levels and types of information involving data services based on the identified or supplied user role. GUI may also present a plurality of portals or dashboards. For example GUI may display a portal that allows users to view create and manage historical and real time reports including role based reporting and such. Of course such reports may be in any appropriate output format including PDF HTML and printable text. Real time dashboards often provide table and graph information on the current state of the data which may be supplemented by data services. It should be understood that the term graphical user interface may be used in the singular or in the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Indeed reference to GUI may indicate a reference to the front end of production planning module as well as the particular interface accessible via client as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Therefore GUI contemplates any graphical user interface such as a generic web browser or touchscreen that processes information in system and efficiently presents the results to the user. In some embodiments server can accept data from client via the web browser e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox and return the appropriate HTML or XML responses to the browser using network .

The production planning module may utilize various business objects such as master planning business subject . One implementation of such a logically centralized master planning business subject is production model which helps manage the production plan for expected scrap materials resources activities tooling and such. The production model is generally based on the bill of material and the routing in an enterprise resource planning system . The production model can determine the flow of materials and the necessary capacity profiles. In some embodiments several production models can exist for one product. In general the production model may be split into various production segments . Each production segment includes bill of operations information from a production bill of operations and bill of material information from a production bill of material . The production model may also include an engineering change order a supply planning area a product a source of supply and a resource . The activities planned and performed in the above model may produce scrap information such as quantities of unusable material or product. In operation the production planning module may calculate and map this scrap information into business objects e.g. master planning business object according to scrap types such as activity scrap fixed resource scrap component scrap and in some cases assembly scrap. Overall the calculations can be carried out by the production planning according to the production model .

Turning to the illustrated embodiment an identity package includes an identity BO that represents a combination of all user accounts of a person document or entity in a system landscape. It may also contain settings for system access and the associated user rights and restrictions.

The production model package includes a production model BO that represents a production process in a production point that may be defined by a network of production segments . The production segment package includes a production segment BO that represents a part of a production process in a production point specified by a network of operations and assigned materials for the production of a material.

The bill of operations package includes a bill of operations BO a planning operation BO a planning operation alternative BO a BO Production bill of operations and a planning operation activity BO . In general information can be passed from the bill of operations BO to the planning operation BO on to the planning operation alternative BO .

In some embodiments the component scrap may be managed in the bill of material and may indicate how much scrap is expected for the mounting of a particular assembly. The bill of material package includes a bill of material BO an item group BO an item group item BO a BO production bill of material and a variant BO . In general the bill of material BO may pass information into the item group BO and the variant . The item group may pass information to the planning operation alternative BO .

The engineering change order BO represents a set of instructions to make changes to a number of objects from the areas of engineering or production. The supply planning area BO groups requirements stocks and other requirements coverage elements with the purpose of being together taken into account in net requirements calculation of supply planning. The product package includes a product BO and a BO material . The source of supply package includes a source of supply BO and a logistic relationship BO . In general the source of supply BO may pass information to the logistic relationship BO . The resource kernel package includes a resource kernel BO and a resource BO . Several off page connectors are shown in and will be discussed with reference to .

Referring to the released planning production model is illustrated with several business objects. The business objects include a released planning production model BO the production segment BO a production segment operation BO an activity BO a capacity requirement BO an alternative BO a change state BO a description BO a production segment material assignment BO a production segment material input BO a change state BO a Usage BO a production segment material output BO a production segment main product material output a production segment co product material output BO and a production segment by product material output BO .

As indicated by off page connectors A O and B the released planning production model BO may receive input from the production model BO the identity BO and the logistic relationship BO . For example preliminary production planning information is used to create the released planning production model . The released planning production model BO may send information into the production segment BO . As shown by off page connectors C G and I production segment BO may receive information from the BO production bill of operations and the BO production bill of material .

The production segment BO may send information into the production segment operation BO the production segment material assignment BO and the production segment material input BO . The production segment operation BO may receive information from the planning operation activity BO as well as send off page connector D information to the business object . The production segment operation BO may send information into the activity BO the alternative BO and the description BO . The activity BO can receive information from the planning operation activity .

The activity BO may send information to itself and into the capacity requirement BO . The capacity requirement BO may send information to the resource BO off page connector P which can then be sent to the resource kernel BO . The resource BO may also respond to the capacity requirement BO .

As indicated by off page connector E the alternative BO may receive information from the planning operation alternative BO in the bill of operations package . The alternative BO may send information to the change state BO to change the state of a bill of operations.

The production segment material input BO may receive off page connector H information from the item group item BO . The production segment material input BO may pass the information to the change state BO . BO may send the information to the usage BO . The change state BO may also receive input from the engineering change order BO off page connector K and the BO Material off page connector M .

The production segment material output BO may send information to the change state BO . The change state BO can receive information from the production segment main production material output BO the production segment co product material output BO and the production segment by product material output BO . As indicated by off page connector N the production segment BO may send information to logistic relationship BO .

Referring to the released planning production model further includes several business objects that can receive data from the logistic relationship BO off page reference Q . The business objects include a hierarchical element BO that can send information to a hierarchical view description BO the supply planning area BO connected by off page reference L the planning operation BO a planning operation relationship and a hierarchical view filter condition BO .

At a high level illustrates components for assigning scrap in various business objects according to one implementation. The business objects may represent various entities within a production model. As shown the business objects BO include a material BO a bill of material BO a production segment BO a production model BO a resource BO and an activity BO . In some cases scrap information can be stored in other business objects in the system including master planning BO and material master object .

The material BO represents a product such as a sellable article packaging auxiliary material or expendable supplies. The product represents a tangible or intangible commodity that is the object of the business of a company and serves to create value for this company. The product can contain other products or belong to another product for example. In some embodiments the product can have relationships to other products or objects.

The bill of material BO represents a complete and structured list that defines and describes the components that are required in the production of a material or family of similar materials. The list may include the object number of each component together with the quantity and unit of measure.

The production segment BO represents part of a production process in a production center specified by a network of operations and assigned materials for the production of a material. The production segment BO may include application data for a business document e.g. scrap information . The production model BO is generally defined as a model of a production process in a production center that is defined by a network of production segments.

The resource BO represents an asset that contributes to the sourcing production or delivery of a product. For example the resource may be a user or tool involved in a production process that have capacities allocated to them. Resources can be subdivided into resource categories such as production line labor and storage to name a few examples.

The activity BO represents a structured view of activities of various types in order to plan and document all actions and interactions related to business partners. For example the activity BO may include some or all of the process steps for executing an operation such as setup process tear down and wait. In some embodiments the activity may represent a separate step within an operation.

Each of the above described business objects can store scrap information. As such the type of scrap may determine which business object receives the scrap information. Referring to the process illustrated depicts component scrap CS assigned to the material BO . For simplicity the component scrap may be recorded in the material BO independent of the related bills of material. The component scrap that can be stored in the material BO may also be applied to any or all bills of material for the material concerned. Accordingly illustrates the material as a component arrow of the bill of material and further indicates the component scrap in the bill of material BO . In some embodiments when component scrap information is added to a particular bill of material the information may override current component scrap stored in the material master object .

Some or all of the bill of material BO information may be provided to the production segment BO . A portion of the information may include assembly scrap information. In general assembly scrap AS is automatically determined as the arithmetic mean of the activity scrap and is thus not typically included in planning scrap determination. For example the production segment may have assembly scrap assigned to and may include several production processes to which assembly scrap can be assigned. The assembly scrap is generally expressed as percentage of the total assembly quantity for this production segment. As shown by arrow the production segment BO may receive assembly information from the material BO . Similar to the production segment BO the production model BO can be assigned assembly scrap information that has been automatically determined. Additionally the production model BO may receive finished product information arrow from the material BO . The finished product information can be used to calculate scrap values for one or more activities. In this case assembly scrap information is normally expressed as a percentage of the total quantity of the finished product and is determined as the arithmetic mean of the production segment assembly scrap.

Fixed resource scrap depicted as fRS may be assigned to the resource BO . In some embodiments fixed resource scrap may alternatively be assigned to an activity in the bill of operation. The scrap assignment includes both the number of scrap parts and the unit of measure. The fixed resource scrap generally relates to the resource that is assigned. The assignment may be included in the resource BO if the resource e.g. material or activity is typically used to make the same product and the amount of resource scrap may be fixed e.g. approximately the same each build . In some embodiments fixed resource scrap is assigned in relation to activities that process a material if the activity is preceded by a setup activity. Moreover resource scrap relating to an activity may override resource scrap related to the resource business object

In some embodiments different materials may be assigned with different numbers of fixed scrap items depending on the physical properties of the materials. In such cases a user may set resource scrap in relation to an activity on a bill of operation e.g. routing for the production of the material. Moreover if it is known what components the activity processes the properties of the material can be allowed for in the scrap calculation.

The activity BO may be assigned fixed resource scrap and activity scrap depicted as AcS . Activity scrap is assigned to the production activity in relation to which it arises. In particular the activity scrap may be expressed as a percentage of a total activity quantity in the activity business object . Illustrated activity BO is included in the bill of operation . The bill of operation includes one or more operations and one or more planning operations . The operations describe one or more actions within a production plan. For example an operation can include any number of assembly production inspection network or other office actions. The planning operations may be an independent part of a set of operations executed on a processing unit. As shown in activities generally have a material flow indicator from planning operation to performing the operation . The flow can be set to illustrate whether the quantities produced go onto a follow on activity downstream or into inventory.

The scrap data stored in any or all of the above business objects can be used to create a released planning production model . The released planning production model represents a released version of a production model that can include the production bill of operations and production bill of material data used in the planning of a production process. The production planning activities may be generated from a production model to release the production plan for expected scrap materials resources activities tooling and such. The production planning module may implement a planning production model .

In operation the system may provide planning for production processes. The planning process may be triggered by creating a production planning order for a defined product and a defined quantity. For subsequent planning the production planning order may use information that is collected in a particular released planning production model assigned to the product. When requested by a system user the released planning production model is exploded by calculation of the input component quantities and time and resource reluriemtns based on the process yield. Scrap calculations can be included in this calculation operation.

In general production planning module may calculate the scrap values for some or all activities in a particular bill of operation. For example production planning module may calculate the activity scrap and then calculate the fixed resource scrap using the activity scrap as input. In some cases the scrap information can be stored in the selected business object as percentages. The stored percentages generally apply to the total of all materials made during a stage of production.

The calculation explosion discussed above includes calculating component quantities to be processed in each of the activities. The component quantities may be the component input quantities used to obtain a yield for the next activity. Calculations may begin when the finished product yield is received in the production model and or obtained in the system . The activity used in the calculations may pertain to the process sequence to which the finished product is assigned.

The following equations may be used to calculate the component quantities and scrap values within an activity. For example the activity scrap A may be calculated using the following equation 

The variable duration of an activity can also be calculated. Activity scrap and fixed resource scrap may be used to calculate the variable duration of an activity as well as the capacity consumption for the activity. To calculate the variable duration T the system may use the following equation 

In scrap calculations the quantity units of measure in which the product is being produced are noted and considered. For example for some units of measure such as pieces or bottles fractions may not be recorded or produced. Similarly some production points have rules requiring larger units such as pallets or cardboard boxes rather than singular units. In such cases the production planning module may round up the quantities to be produced to the nearest full unit. In some embodiments the quantities may not be rounded up until all component quantities across the production process have been calculated to avoid passing rounding difference from activity to activity.

In some embodiments the various scrap types may impact component quantities and processing time of the activities. For example the activity scrap may raise a component requirement and a total quantity undergoing processing. Activity scrap may also raise the total time for an activity and activity consumption. Similarly fixed resource scrap may raise the component quantity and total quantity undergoing processing. The fixed resource scrap may also raise the time required for the activity and resource consumption. Both the activity scrap and the fixed resource scrap may raise an output quantity of a preceding activity when there is a material flow. In a similar fashion the component scrap may raise the component requirement.

In this example the first activity creates 14 pieces of activity scrap 2 pieces of fixed resource scrap and 15 pieces of component scrap . The yield output is 120 pieces into the second activity . The second activity creates 6 pieces of activity scrap and 7 pieces of component scrap . The yield output is 114 pieces into the third activity . The third activity creates 12 pieces of activity scrap and 2 pieces of resource scrap . The yield output is 100 pieces and the production order requested is fulfilled. Although the production quantity and activity duration calculations are not depicted in one or more of the above equations can be used in this example to calculate the total production quantity and activity durations respectively.

In operation the master planning business object is instantiated using some portion of production model data operation . For example a user may create a production order and enter GUI to plan the order. The creation of the production order may instantiate the business object . The production order may include one or more bills of material any or all of which may include activities. The activities can create scrap that may undergo assignment to a particular business object. As such the system may perform a check to determine the unassigned scrap levels at various points in the activities operation . If unassigned scrap is not found the method may end and be performed again upon instantiation of master planning business object . But if unassigned scrap is found in the system then the production planning module may generate a component quantity operation . For example the module may implement calculations similar to the equations described above to combine activity yield with activity scrap and fixed resource scrap to generate a component quantity.

Next the production planning module may multiply the component quantity calculated above and the component scrap ratio to generate additional component requirements operation . For example the additional component requirements may include the duration of the activity. Accordingly the duration of the activity can be calculated by multiplying the component quantity and the duration per component. Other requirement calculations are possible.

Upon determining further requirements e.g. scrap information the production planning module may add the component quantity to the additional component requirements to determine a new total quantity operation . For example more components can be added to the production order if the scrap values increase during production of the order. Upon calculating the further requirements the scrap determined may be assigned to the appropriate business object operation . For example if the new requirement was created from an activity the scrap for the requirement can be assigned to the activity business object. Similarly if the scrap is created from the requirement of more components the scrap can be assigned to the bill of material business object or the material business object. Once calculated this logically centralized scrap information may be used to develop a production planning model.

The preceding flowchart and accompanying description illustrate exemplary method . System contemplates using or implementing any suitable technique for performing these and other tasks. It will be understood that these methods are for illustration purposes only and that the described or similar techniques may be performed at any appropriate time including concurrently individually or in combination. In addition many of the steps in these flowcharts may take place simultaneously and or in different orders than as shown. Moreover system may use methods with additional steps fewer steps and or different steps so long as the methods remain appropriate. In other words although this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments and generally associated methods alterations and permutations of these embodiments and methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the above description of example embodiments does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

