---

title: Automated unique call announcement
abstract: Automated unique call announcements for incoming telephone calls are provided. When a call is received at a mobile or wired telephone, a variety of data about the calling party, for example, caller identification and profile data for the calling party and data associated with the called party, for example, scheduling data, contacts data, and contextual data, such as time of day, may be used for generating a text-to-speech message that may be played to the called party as a unique call announcement. If desired, a standard or customized ring tone may be played before, after, or before and after presentation of the unique call announcement. In addition, voice command functionality may be provided for allowing a called party to direct a disposition of an incoming telephone call without answering the incoming telephone call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08280025&OS=08280025&RS=08280025
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08280025
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 498 filed Jun. 29 2007 and entitled MOBILE TELEPHONE INTERACTIVE CALL DISPOSITION SYSTEM and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 049 281 filed Mar. 15 2008 and entitled APPENDING CONTENT TO A TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION which applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

In modern mobile and wired telephones methods and systems are used for identifying a calling party. For example a text based caller identification may be displayed in a screen on a telephone to allow a called party to see an identification of a calling party before a telephone call is answered. A text to speech TTS system may be used to speak aloud a name presented in a caller identification field in association with a calling party. Some telephones allow custom ring tones to be assigned to specific telephone numbers but the assignment of custom ring tones to specific numbers is not an automated process. In busy working and leisure environments in which it is often difficult to look at a ringing telephone or to have a unique ring tone for every potential calling party it is difficult to efficiently and adequately screen incoming telephone calls to determine whether a particular call should be answered. Furthermore ring tones text based and TTS based caller identifications lack contextual information that may be of use to a user in a mobile telephone environment for determining whether to answer an incoming call for example a location of the calling party a method of call a gender of the calling party scheduling information for the called party and the like.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the invention solve the above and other problems by providing automated unique call announcements. When a call is received at a mobile or wired telephone a variety of data about the calling party for example caller identification and profile data for the calling party and data associated with the called party for example scheduling data contacts data and contextual data such as time of day may be used for generating a text to speech message that may be played to the called party as a unique call announcement. If desired a standard or customized ring tone may be played before after or before and after presentation of the unique call announcement. In addition voice command functionality may be provided for allowing a called party to direct a disposition of an incoming telephone call without answering the incoming telephone call.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing automated unique call announcements UCA for incoming telephone calls for allowing a called party to adequately and efficiently screen incoming telephone calls prior to answering a particular incoming telephone call. According to embodiments of the invention when an incoming telephone call is received at a mobile or wired telephone a ring tone for the incoming telephone call is retrieved for provision to the called party via a speaker of the called party s mobile or wired telephone. As will be described below the ring tone may be a standard ring tone provided by the called party s telephone or the ring tone may be a customized ring tone that is customized for a particular calling party. After the retrieval of a ring tone for provision to the called party information is retrieved about the calling party and about the called party that may be used for providing a unique call announcement that may be presented to the called party via a text to speech engine for allowing the called party to screen an incoming telephone call without having to look at the called party telephone.

Information gathered on the calling party and on the called party for providing an automated unique call announcement may include location information for the calling party call data contextual data scheduling data call urgency data and the like. A configurable combination of these types of data may be used for providing a text to speech unique call announcement to the called party to allow the called party to more adequately and efficiently screen an incoming telephone call. For example caller identification information for a calling party location information for a calling party and scheduling information for a called party may be gathered for an incoming telephone call to produce a unique call announcement such as call from Bob Jones from his office at your appointed call time. 

According to embodiments the unique call announcement may be converted from text to speech by a text to speech TTS engine and the call announcement may be presented to the called party instead of or in combination with a ring tone. Thus the calling party may hear the unique call announcement for the calling party which will provide the called party with information about the incoming call to allow the called party to determine whether the incoming call should be answered.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention but instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention may be utilized for both mobile and wired telephones. For purposes of illustration embodiments of the present invention will be described herein with reference to a mobile telephone having a telephone system but it should be appreciated that the components described for the mobile telephone with its mobile telephone system are equally applicable to a wired telephone having similar or equivalent functionality for providing unique call announcements described herein.

The following is a description of a suitable mobile device for example the camera phone or camera enabled computing device discussed above with which embodiments of the invention may be practiced. With reference to an example mobile computing device for implementing the embodiments is illustrated. In a basic configuration mobile computing device is a handheld computer having both input elements and output elements. Input elements may include touch screen display and input buttons and allow the user to enter information into mobile computing device . Mobile computing device also incorporates a side input element allowing further user input. Side input element may be a rotary switch a button or any other type of manual input element. In alternative embodiments mobile computing device may incorporate more or less input elements. For example display may not be a touch screen in some embodiments. In yet another alternative embodiment the mobile computing device is a portable phone system such as a cellular phone having display and input buttons . Mobile computing device may also include an optional keypad . Optional keypad may be a physical keypad or a soft keypad generated on the touch screen display. Yet another input device that may be integrated to mobile computing device is an on board camera .

Mobile computing device incorporates output elements such as display which can display a graphical user interface GUI . Other output elements include speaker and LED light . Additionally mobile computing device may incorporate a vibration module not shown which causes mobile computing device to vibrate to notify the user of an event. In yet another embodiment mobile computing device may incorporate a headphone jack not shown for providing another means of providing output signals.

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention is used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. To summarize any computer system having a plurality of environment sensors a plurality of output elements to provide notifications to a user and a plurality of notification event types may incorporate embodiments of the present invention.

In this embodiment system has a processor a memory display and keypad . Memory generally includes both volatile memory e.g. RAM and non volatile memory e.g. ROM Flash Memory or the like . System includes an Operating System OS which in this embodiment is resident in a flash memory portion of memory and executes on processor . Keypad may be a push button numeric dialing pad such as on a typical telephone a multi key keyboard such as a conventional keyboard or may not be included in the mobile computing device in deference to a touch screen or stylus. Display may be a liquid crystal display or any other type of display commonly used in mobile computing devices. Display may be touch sensitive and would then also act as an input device.

One or more application programs are loaded into memory and run on or outside of operating system . Examples of application programs include phone dialer programs e mail programs PIM personal information management programs such as electronic calendar and contacts programs word processing programs spreadsheet programs Internet browser programs and so forth. System also includes non volatile storage within memory . Non volatile storage may be used to store persistent information that should not be lost if system is powered down. Applications may use and store information in non volatile storage such as e mail or other messages used by an e mail application contact information used by a PIM documents used by a word processing application and the like. A synchronization application not shown also resides on system and is programmed to interact with a corresponding synchronization application resident on a host computer to keep the information stored in non volatile storage synchronized with corresponding information stored at the host computer. In some embodiments non volatile storage includes the aforementioned flash memory in which the OS and possibly other software is stored.

As briefly described above the applications may include a variety of applications useful in providing information with which an automated unique call announcement may be generated. For example the applications may include an electronic scheduling calendaring and contacts application for example MICROSOFT OUTLOOK with which electronic mail calendaring information scheduling information and contacts information may be maintained by the called party on the called party telephone computing device . For example a contacts module of such an application may be used to store contact information for example name address telephone number and the like for a variety of contacts that may include calling parties from which the called party may receive an incoming telephone call. A calendaring or scheduling component of such an application may allow the called party to enter a variety of scheduling information including appointments for meetings for example an appointment for which the called party may receive an incoming telephone call. Such contacts calendaring and scheduling information may be stored at storage .

The applications may include additional applications useful for providing unique call announcements. For example a global positioning system GPS application for obtaining location information for the calling or called party may be provided. For example if the calling party is calling from the mobile telephone computing device a global positioning system application may be utilized for determining a location of the calling party and for presenting that information to the called party for use in a unique call announcement. Other positioning systems may be utilized as alternates to a global positioning system. For example an application programming interface API may be utilized in the mobile telephone for calling a local or remote location service and for passing contact information or other identifying information for a calling party to a location service for returning location information for the called party.

The unique call announcement UCA module is a software application operative to provide an automated unique call announcement. According to embodiments when an incoming call is received the unique call announcement module is operative to retrieve a standard or unique ring tone and to retrieve information about the calling or called party for generation of a unique call announcement as described herein. According to embodiments the UCA module may use information about the calling party received from and incoming call and information about both the calling party and the calling party maintained for both parties at the mobile telephone or available via a local or remote information source for example Internet based information sources accessible by the mobile telephone computing device via a distributed network. An example of information about a calling party received with the incoming call includes caller identification information which is data that travels with the incoming call that identifies the calling party by telephone directory number calling party name address or other identifying attributes.

The text to speech TTS engine is a software application operative to receive text based information from the unique call announcement module and to generate an audible announcement from the received information. As is well known to those skilled in the art the TTS engine may access a large lexicon or library of spoken words for example names places nouns verbs articles or any other word of a designated spoken language for generating an audible announcement for a given portion of text. The lexicon of spoken words may be stored at storage . According to embodiments of the present invention once an audible announcement is generated from a given portion of text the audible announcement may be played via the audio interface of the telephone computing device through a speaker earphone or headset associated with the telephone for providing a unique call announcement to the called party. For example if the call announcement module passes a text item such as call from Bob at his office to the TTS engine the TTS engine may utilize a large lexicon of spoken words to generate an audible announcement of call from Bob at his office that may be played to the called party via a speaker on the telephone or via an associated earphone or headset.

The voice command VC module is a software application operative to receive audible input at the telephone and to convert the audible input to a command that may be used to direct the functionality of the telephone and to dispose of incoming telephone calls according to embodiments of the present invention. According to one embodiment the voice command module may be comprised of a large lexicon of spoken words a recognition function and an action function. The lexicon of spoken words may be stored at storage . When a command is spoken into a microphone of the telephone computing device the voice command module receives the spoken command and passes the spoken command to a recognition function that parses the spoken words and applies the parsed spoken words to the lexicon of spoken words for recognizing each spoken word. Once the spoken words are recognized by the recognition function a recognized command for example forward this call to Joe may be passed to an action functionality that may be operative to direct the activities of the telephone . For example a spoken phrase such as forward this call to Joe may be utilized by the voice command module to invoke the forwarding functionality of the telephone to retrieve a forwarding telephone number for the forwarded to party from a contacts database and to cause the incoming telephone call to be forwarded or otherwise processed as directed.

System has a power supply which may be implemented as one or more batteries. Power supply might further include an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements or recharges the batteries.

System may also include a radio that performs the function of transmitting and receiving radio frequency communications. Radio facilitates wireless connectivity between system and the outside world via a communications carrier or service provider. Transmissions to and from radio are conducted under control of OS . In other words communications received by radio may be disseminated to application programs via OS and vice versa.

Radio allows system to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. Radio is one example of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

This embodiment of system is shown with two types of notification output devices. The LED may be used to provide visual notifications and an audio interface may be used with speaker to provide audio notifications. These devices may be directly coupled to power supply so that when activated they remain on for a duration dictated by the notification mechanism even though processor and other components might shut down for conserving battery power. LED may be programmed to remain on indefinitely until the user takes action to indicate the powered on status of the device. Audio interface is used to provide audible signals to and receive audible signals from the user. For example in addition to being coupled to speaker audio interface may also be coupled to a microphone to receive audible input such as to facilitate a telephone conversation. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention the microphone may also serve as an audio sensor to facilitate control of notifications as will be described below.

System may further include video interface that enables an operation of on board camera to record still images video stream and the like. According to some embodiments different data types received through one of the input devices such as audio video still image ink entry and the like may be integrated in a unified environment along with textual data by applications .

A mobile computing device implementing system may have additional features or functionality. For example the device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

Having described an operating environment for embodiments of the present invention above with respect to it is advantageous to describe an operational implementation to further illustrate embodiments of the present invention. is a logical flow diagram illustrating a method for providing automated unique call announcements.

The routine begins at start operation and proceeds to operation where an incoming call is received from a calling party on the telephone computing device described above. As described above embodiments described herein are equally useful with a mobile or wired telephone computing device . At operation the unique call announcement UCA module detects the incoming telephone call and briefly interrupts operation of the telephone computing device for preparation of and presentation of a unique call announcement.

At operation the unique call announcement module retrieves a standard or customized ring tone for the incoming call from storage . For example if the called party has selected a standard ring tone for all incoming telephone calls then the standard ring tone will be retrieved for presentation to the called party in association with the received call. On the other hand if the called party has assigned a customized ring tone to one or more contacts the unique call announcement module may map caller identification for the incoming telephone call to a customized ring tone assigned to a contact maintained by the calling party that matches the caller identification of the incoming telephone call. Retrieval and presentation of a standard or customized ring tones for an incoming telephone call may be optional. For example a unique TTS call announcement may be provided instead of a standard or customized ring tone. Alternatively a standard or customized ring tone may be presented first to alert the calling party of an incoming telephone call followed by the presentation of a TTS call announcement. Alternatively a standard or unique ring tone may be presented briefly followed by the presentation of the TTS call announcement followed by a final presentation of the standard or customized ring tone. For example a standard or customized ring tone may be presented at a configured volume followed by a fading out gradual reduction in volume of the standard or customized ring tone followed by a presentation of the TTS call announcement followed by a fading in gradual increase in volume of the standard or customized ring tone.

At operation the UCA module retrieves information for generation of a unique call announcement that may be presented to the called party. At operation the call announcement module may utilize a location functionality for obtaining location information on the calling party as described above. For example a global positioning system GPS may be utilized at the calling party telephone for generating a location of the calling party and for transmitting the location information to the called party along with the incoming telephone call. Alternatively the called party telephone may utilize a location service for passing information known about the incoming calling party to obtain location information. For example an application programming interface API may be utilized by the called telephone for passing a caller identification of an incoming calling party to a location service for example an Internet based location service for obtaining an address or physical location associated with a caller identification of the incoming calling party. In addition the UCA module may obtain location information for the incoming calling party by passing caller identification for the incoming calling party to a contacts database maintained by the called party in the storage for obtaining location information for the calling party. For example if the incoming telephone call matches the calling party s office then the calling party s office may be returned as the location of the calling party for the incoming telephone call.

At operation the UCA module may obtain call data for the incoming call for use in generation and presentation of a unique call announcement. For example call data may include the time and date of the call a cell tower location at which the incoming call originated which may be used to further supplement the location information described above a time zone in which the incoming call originates and caller identification information for identifying the incoming call and for use in obtaining information about the incoming call such as information contained in a contacts database by the called party. In addition call data for the incoming call may include the last call time and date from the calling party and a last contact method if known for the calling party for example instant messaging electronic mail telephone etc. As should be appreciated last contact method information may be maintained in the called telephone computing device in association with a caller identification for the incoming telephone call.

At operation contextual data for the incoming telephone call may be obtained by the UCA module . According to embodiments contextual data associated with the incoming telephone call may be obtained from a variety of sources. Contextual data may be attached to or tagged to the incoming call for example call data described above at operation . Contextual data may be obtained from sources such as contacts databases calendaring application databases and the like. In addition such contextual information may be obtained from local on the device sources or may be obtained from remote sources via a distributed network such as an intranet or the Internet via the radio . For example identification information for the incoming telephone call may be used to search an Internet based source for contextual information about the calling party.

Examples of contextual data may include a gender for the incoming telephone call which may be useful in generating and providing a unique call announcement as described below. For example the call announcement module may map a caller identification for the incoming call to a contacts database for determining whether the incoming caller is male or female. Similarly an age of the calling party and a nationality of the calling party may be obtained as contextual data for the incoming telephone call. For example if it is known that the calling party associated with the incoming telephone call is an elderly male caller from Italy the text to speech engine may generate a unique call announcement using a synthesized elderly male voice with an Italian accent to provide a tonal uniqueness to the provided call announcement.

Other contextual data may be associated with other information such as scheduling information provided below. For example if scheduling information associated with the calling party is known from the called party s scheduling data and the scheduling information indicates that the calling party is calling at a time when the calling party is at a noisy outdoor event for example a sporting event then the UCA may adjust the unique call announcement accordingly. For example if it is known that the calling party is calling from a scheduled event that is known to be noisy then the UCA may cause the telephone computing device to adjust the volume of the call announcement or may provide synthesized outdoor activity noise to further provide unique qualities to the presented call announcement.

Additional contextual data may include a list of potential topics to discuss between the calling party and the called party based recent or past communications between the parties or based on scheduling data associated with the parties described below. By obtaining such contextual data a subject of a given call may be integrated into the call announcement. For example a calling party Bob places a call to a called party Joe. The UCA may obtain data on a recent string of communications about a document the two parties are collaborating on and the UCA may obtain an upcoming appointment for the two parties to produce an example announcement to the calling party of Hello Bob if this is about the document we are working on press 1 if it is about our 3 00 pm appointment press 2 or if it is personal press 3. If the calling party presses 1 the called party may hear an announcement or receive a text based notification of Bob is calling about the document. Thus the contextual nature of the announcements allows for helpful information to be passed between the calling and called parties without requiring the called party to answer the telephone call.

At operation the call announcement module may obtain scheduling information for the calling party via a calendar scheduling application that may be useful in providing a unique call announcement. For example based on the time of an incoming call the call announcement module may review an electronic calendar or scheduling data for the called party for generating a unique call announcement. For example if a caller identification associated with the calling party maps to a scheduled conference for the called party a unique call announcement such as call from Bob as scheduled at 1 00 p.m. may be provided via the TTS engine . In addition scheduling data may be provided for the calling party via the calling party s telephone computing device . That is in addition to caller identification and other call data for the incoming call scheduling data for the calling party may be provided with the call which in turn may be used by the call announcement module . For example if the incoming call includes scheduling data showing that the calling party will be in a meeting in thirty minutes then a unique call announcement may be provided such as call from Bob his next meeting begins in thirty minutes so that the called party may decide not to answer the incoming call but will know from the unique call announcement that the calling party will be in a meeting thirty minutes from now.

In addition scheduling information may be useful for adjusting or providing tonal characteristics to a call announcement. For example if it is known from scheduling data from a calling party that the calling party is calling from his office synthesized or canned office type sounds may be provided as background for the call announcement to provide interesting context for the call announcement. For another example if it is known that the calling party is at a sports event synthesized or canned noise associated with sporting events may be played as background sounds to the call announcement to provide interesting contextual qualities to the call announcement. For another example if it is known that the called party must be at a dental appointment in ten minutes an announcement may be provided that alerts the calling party that he must attend his dental appointment which may impact his decision as to whether to answer the incoming call. For example a unique call announcement such as call from Sarah your dental appointment begins in five minutes may be provided for providing a scheduling context to the incoming telephone call.

At operation any urgency data applicable to an incoming call may be utilized by the call announcement module for providing a unique call announcement. For example if the calling party applies an urgency factor to the incoming call or if scheduling data from the incoming call or from the called party s scheduling information indicates that calls from this calling party are of a certain urgency nature this information may be useful in providing the unique call announcement. For example if a call is received from a calling party that is marked as urgent a unique call announcement may be provided such as urgent call from Jim he will be departing for New York in one hour. 

At operation the call announcement module passes any textual data or information gathered for the incoming call as described above for operations to the TTS engine for generation of an audible unique call announcement that may be provided to the called party. According to embodiments the textual information provided to the TTS engine may be structured by the UCA module before the information is passed to the TTS engine. For example the information passed to the TTS engine may be structured according to a variety of useful structuring languages such as the Extensible Markup Language XML for associating various tagged components of a text string with information obtained in association with an incoming telephone call. For example a canned text string such as call from is calling from . Such a structured text string may then be populated by the UCA module by inserting a name for the calling party in the name tag a gender based pronoun for example he she his her for the gender based pronoun tag and a location of the calling party for the location tag. The populated text string may then be passed to the TTS engine for generation of an audible version of the text string for presentation as a unique call announcement. As should be appreciated the example marked up text string is for purposes of illustration only and is not intended to illustrate a well formed mark up language text string such as may be available according to XML.

At operation the generated TTS announcement may be adjusted based on call caller context information obtained by the UCA module as described above. For example if it is determined that the calling party is a young female the TTS string may be generated with a synthesized or canned young female voice for providing a contextual quality to the played announcement. For another example if it is known that the calling party is calling from a noisy sporting event as described above the synthesized or canned background noise typically associated with an outdoor sporting event may be applied to the TTS announcement for providing contextual tonal qualities to the call announcement. In addition to the examples described above other tonal qualities that may be provided include tonal qualities based on the time of day of a call. For example if an incoming call is received at night a whisper type voice volume and quality may be used for the call announcement.

According to an embodiment the TTS call announcements described herein may be configurable by the called party by programming the UCA module . For example a given called party may program the UCA module to provide unique call announcements with only caller identification information and free busy schedule information. Thus call announcements according to this configuration would contain only an identification of the calling party and any available free busy scheduling information for the calling party. For example such a call announcement may be provided as call from Bob Brown on cell his next meeting is in five minutes. Another calling party may configure the call announcement module to provide call announcements containing caller identification plus a friendly name for the calling party if available plus a location of the calling party. An example of such a call announcement may include call from mom at work. Another configurable call announcement may include caller identification information plus call history if available. An example of such a call announcement may include this is the fifth call from Joe Green in thirty minutes. 

Another configurable call announcement may include caller identification plus scheduling information for the called party. An example of such a call announcement may include call from Sarah as scheduled at 2 00 p.m. Another example call announcement configuration may include caller identification information plus urgency information. An example of such a call announcement may include urgent call from Frank. As should be appreciated the example configurations described herein are for illustration purposes only and are not limiting of the vast numbers of different types of call announcement configurations that may be used. For example one configuration may omit caller identification information and provide only scheduling information. An example of such a call announcement may include this is your 2 00 p.m. call. Alternatively the configuration of a given call announcement may be decided by the UCA module based on available information for generating a unique call announcement. For example if the call announcement module is able to obtain caller identification information scheduling information and location information associated with the incoming call then a call announcement may be configured to include each of these types of information.

At operation after the TTS based unique call announcement is generated according to the information obtained for the TTS presentation and according to any tonal adjustments configured for or desired for the TTS presentation the TTS presentation may be provided to the called party as a unique call announcement. As described above in addition to the unique call announcement a standard or customized ring tone may be provided before after or before and after the provision of the unique call announcement or the ring tone may be omitted altogether and the unique call announcement may be provided as the only indication of the incoming call.

At operation according to one embodiment the voice command module may be utilized by the called party to dispose of the incoming call. For example if the called party decides to forward the incoming call to another person based on the content of the unique call announcement the called party may speak a call forwarding voice command into a microphone of the telephone computing device for issuing a voice command to the voice command module . For example the called party may determine that the incoming call is best handled by another person based on information provided in the unique call announcement. Thus the called party rather than answering the incoming call may speak the words forward this call to Tom. The voice command module will receive the words spoken by the called party and will pass the received words to a speech recognition function based on a lexicon of words and commands for preparing an actionable command that may be used in disposing of the call. For example based on the spoken command forward this call to Tom the voice command module may automatically forward the incoming call to the designated person. According to one embodiment the called party may command the UCA module via key press via dual tone multi frequency DTMF key tone recognition.

Alternatively the voice command module may be configured for presenting a TTS command back to the called party to verify the command is understood by the voice command module . For example in response to the command forward this call to Tom the voice command module may present a TTS announcement back to the commanding called party such as do you want to forward this call to Tom If the voice command presented back to the commanding called party is accurate the called party may respond according to any number of suitable means for example by speaking an audible command back to the voice command module such as yes or no or by selecting a key from the telephone computing device such as numeral one pound star or the like. After the unique call announcement and any associated ring tone is provided to the called party as described and after any voice command provided by the called party is processed the routine ends at operation .

Advantageously according to embodiments of the present invention a called party may receive a unique call announcement that obviates a need for the called party to remove his her eyes from a current task when an incoming call is received and obviates a need for a called party to program customized ring tones for various calling parties. If a call is not answered by the called party contextual information provided in the unique call announcement will greatly enhance the information available to the called party in determining whether and when to return the call. In addition contextual information is useful to visually impaired users who may learn interesting and valuable contextual information about an incoming call whether or not the incoming call is answered.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

