---

title: Systems and methods for communication with foreign language speakers
abstract: Instant messaging (IM) is provided and translated between parties that speak different languages, such as between a foreign language speaker and an entity. One or more converters may convert the foreign language speaker's speech to IM text in the speaker's language, which may then be translated into a language used by the entity. The foreign language speaker may provide IM text instead of speaking, and this IM text in the foreign language may be translated into IM text in a language used by the entity. The translated IM text or the speech converted from the translated IM text may then be provided as text, or may be converted to speech and provided as speech, to the entity, or a representative associated with the entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08630840&OS=08630840&RS=08630840
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08630840
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070911
---
Currently a foreign language speaker communicates by phone with a representative of an entity such as a financial services company through a third party interpreter if the speaker and the representative do not speak the same language. This process requires the third party to translate languages and relay information between the foreign language speaker and the representative. This leads to increased cost and phone call times and often leads to confusion for the foreign language speaker and the representative. Additionally the foreign language speaker may be unaware of who the third party is and what they might do with the information that is being provided translated and relayed.

Instant messaging IM is provided and translated between parties that speak different languages such as between a foreign language speaker and an entity. One or more converters may convert the foreign language speaker s speech to IM text in the speaker s language which may then be translated into a language used by the entity. The foreign language speaker may provide IM text instead of speaking and this IM text in the foreign language may be translated into IM text in a language used by the entity. The translated IM text or the speech converted from the translated IM text may then be provided as text or may be converted to speech and provided as speech to the entity or a representative associated with the entity.

The converter s and translator s may also translate the response communication such as speech or IM text from the entity into IM text in the language used by the foreign language speaker. This translated IM text may then be provided to the foreign language speaker or may be converted to speech in the foreign language and provided to the foreign language speaker.

The conversation between the foreign language speaker and the representative can take place using speech from the parties that is converted to IM text and then translated or using IM without speech or using a combination of speech and IM for example.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A connection is established between a foreign language user s telecommunications device such as a phone or computing device and a telecommunications device such as a phone or computing device associated with an entity . A user may use the telecommunications device to initiate a call with the entity or vice versa. The telecommunications device may be any known phone or computing device with telephone functionality and in some implementations may be capable of sending and receiving IM messages. Such devices are well known and their descriptions are omitted for brevity.

The entity may be a company such as a financial services company or bank for example and comprises one or more translators that convert IM text from one language to another language. Languages that may be translated to and from include English Spanish German French and Russian for example though any language may be translated to and from depending on the application s or system s used to perform the actual translations described further herein.

The translator s may translate an IM message received from the user s telecommunications device or generated based on signals received from the telecommunications device to an IM message in a different language such as a language that is used or preferred by the entity or a representative of the entity. The translator s may also convert IM from the representative to an IM message in a different language such as a language used by the user who is communicating with the entity via the telecommunications device . The translation may be performed by the same translation device s and or module s or by different translation devices and or modules. Various IM protocols described further herein may be supported.

In an implementation the entity further comprises one or more text to speech speech to text converters . The converter s may convert the instant message from the user s device or the translated instant message based on the user s transmitted instant message to speech that may then be provided to the representative. The converter s may also convert the representative s speech to an instant message in the representative s language which may then be translated to the user s language prior to being provided to the user.

Alternatively the speech from the user or representative is directly translated into an instant message in the language that the recipient uses and the intermediate operation of converting the speech to an instant message of the speaker s language prior to translating into the recipient s language may not be used. In this manner the parties may communicate with each other by speaking and listening without a third party translator and the parties do not have to prepare instant messages. This provides further efficiencies as the parties do not have to type or read IM text. The converter s may contain a well known text to speech converter and a well known speech to text converter where the text that is being converted to and from may be text pertaining to an instant message. The text to speech converter and the speech to text converter may be separate components modules or applications for example.

In an implementation one or more representatives are associated with the entity and may have one or more computing devices on which to receive and transmit IM messages. The entity may also comprise one or more computing devices that may operate in conjunction with software modules and one or more data storage devices . The data storage device s may contain user information that had been previously received and stored e.g. with respect to a user s accounts. This data may be personal information such as the user s marital status age address account information etc. for example and may be used to confirm the identity of the user or to personalize data pertaining to the user that is presented to the representative. An example computing device is described with respect to .

Software modules are shown that may be used in the performance of the example techniques described herein in conjunction with the other various elements and components described herein. Example software modules include modules for maintaining a connection between a user and a representative retrieving user and other data from storage performing translations of instant messages packaging information for transmission and generating information that may be useful to the representative and the user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module.

As noted above a connection is established between the telecommunications device and the entity . The connection may comprise a telephone network a local area network a wide area network the Internet or any combination thereof for example.

At operation a user may place a call through a phone or computing device which may be IM enabled to the entity. A recipient such as a representative associated with the entity may be notified both that the incoming call is from a foreign language line and what the user s language is and may answer the call at operation . There may be a separate phone number for each foreign language. The entity may know which language the incoming call is likely to be in based on which phone number has been used to make the incoming call. The notification to the representative may be in the form of a displayed window message or other indicator on the representative s computer monitor or display or a notification over the representative s telephone for example. In an implementation a button icon or link for example is provided that the representative can select to answer the call and begin a voice or an instant messaging conversation with the user.

At operation the representative may generate an instant message in answering the call. The instant message may request authentication information from the user or may be another type of greeting for example. Authentication of the user may involve a password code credential key etc. Authentication techniques are well known and their descriptions are omitted for brevity. The instant message may be translated from the representative s language to the user s language at operation . The instant message in the user s language may then be delivered to the user at operation .

The user receives an instant message and may respond with an instant message in his language at operation . The instant message sent by the user s device may be received and converted to an instant message in the representative s or other recipient s language at operation by translating the instant message from one language to another language. The instant message may then be delivered to the representative at operation . In this manner a two way conversation may continue between the user and the representative at operation until the session ends. It is contemplated that timestamps may be used so that messages between the user and the representative do not overlap.

Thus a user may confer with a representative or other call recipient via instant messages that are translated into the particular language of each party whether the parties speak the same language or different languages. Because there is no need for a third party translator time and expense are saved and the user s information is more secure and is maintained in greater privacy.

Alternatively the IM messages that are to be delivered to the user are converted to speech and then delivered to the user. In this manner the user does not have to type and read instant messages and therefore does not need to use an IM enabled phone or computing device. is an operational flow of another implementation of a method that provides instant messaging between two parties who speak different languages.

At operation a user may place a call to an entity. As in the implementation of a representative associated with the entity may be notified both that the incoming call is from a foreign language line and what the user s language is and may answer the call at operation . At operation the representative may generate an instant message in answering the call and the instant message may be translated from the representative s language to the user s language at operation .

At operation the instant message in the user s language is converted to speech which may then be delivered to the user. Alternatively the instant message in the representative s language may be directly translated and converted to speech in the user s language bypassing the operation of generating an instant message in the user s language based on the instant message in the representative s language.

The user receives the instant message verbally in the user s language and may respond with speech in his language at operation . The speech may be converted to an instant message in the user s language at operation and then translated to an instant message in the representative s language at operation . Alternatively the speech may be converted directly to an instant message in the representative s language without first converting the speech to an instant message in the user s language.

The instant message may then be delivered to the representative. In this manner a two way conversation may continue between the user and the representative at operation until the session ends. As with the implementation of timestamps may be used so that messages between the user and the representative do not overlap.

Alternatively instant messages from a user may be converted to speech that is provided to a representative and or the representative may speak in response and this speech is converted to IM which may then be translated and provided to the user in the user s language either as instant messages or as speech. is an operational flow of another implementation of a method that provides IM between two parties who speak different languages.

The implementation of may be similar to that described above with respect to and includes both the conversion of IM text to speech prior to delivery to the recipient of the call and conversion of the recipient s speech to IM text which may then be translated and provided to the user. In an implementation the recipient may be a representative of an entity such as a financial services company or a bank for example.

At operation a user may place a call to an entity and at operation a recipient such as a representative of the entity answers the call and is alerted that the user is speaking a different language. At operation the representative may speak and the speech is converted to an instant message.

Operations to are similar to operations to described with respect to . The instant message may be translated from the representative s language to the user s language at operation and the instant message in the user s language may be converted to speech at operation which may then be delivered to the user. Alternatively the instant message in the representative s language may be directly translated and converted to speech in the user s language bypassing the operation of generating an instant message in the user s language based on the instant message in the representative s language.

The user may receive the instant message verbally in the user s language and may respond with speech in his language at operation . The speech may be converted to an instant message in the user s language at operation and may then be translated to an instant message in the representative s language converted to speech and delivered at operation . Alternatively the speech may be converted directly to an instant message in the representative s language without first converting the speech to an instant message in the user s language.

Thus a spoken message is provided to the representative so that a two way spoken conversation may continue between the user and the representative at operation until the session ends. Thus neither party has to generate an instant message though instant messages may be generated and utilized in response to the parties spoken messages.

A text remover strips the text and other information e.g. identifier header etc. from the instant message. A language translator translates the stripped text to a desired language. Any language translation application or system that translates text from one language to another language may be used. A message packager packages the translated text into an appropriate instant message package for delivery e.g. via an Internet chat system.

It is contemplated that each of the parties to a call may be a person or an automated system involving computers phones or both. It is also contemplated that the call recipient described herein may initiate the call e.g. the representative of the entity initiates the call . In such an implementation the representative s call may be initiated as an IM or speech converted to IM translated into the language appropriate for the user and delivered to the user who would be the call recipient.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

