---

title: Monitoring activities of daily living using radio frequency emissions
abstract: Briefly, in accordance with one or more embodiments, a monitoring system is capable of monitoring the Activities of Daily Living (ADL) of one or more persons occupying a building. The monitoring system includes an information handling system having a radio-frequency (RF) scanner capable of scanning the RF ambient environment of the building. When an individual uses devices in the building that emit RF signals or emissions, the RF signals are detected by the RF scanner and analyzed by the information handling system. The characteristics of the detected RF signals are compared to a database of signature of known devices. If a detected RF signal matches the signature of a known device, the use of the device is logged into a database for ADL analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798573&OS=08798573&RS=08798573
owner: Intel-GE Care Innovations LLC
number: 08798573
owner_city: Roseville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070822
---
In some healthcare environments certain individuals may benefit from monitoring of their Activities for Daily Living ADL . Typically systems that have been implemented for such ADL monitoring utilize various specialized equipment having sensors monitors video surveillance or other devices that are carried on the body of the monitored individual or that are otherwise invasive in the ordinary everyday life and activities of the monitored individual.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and or clarity of illustration elements illustrated in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further if considered appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding and or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuits have not been described in detail.

In the following description and or claims the terms coupled and or connected along with their derivatives may be used. In particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical and or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical and or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements may not be in direct contact with each other but yet may still cooperate and or interact with each other. For example coupled may mean that two or more elements do not contact each other but are indirectly joined together via another element or intermediate elements. Finally the terms on overlying and over may be used in the following description and claims. On overlying and over may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical contact with each other. However over may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other. For example over may mean that one element is above another element but not contact each other and may have another element or elements in between the two elements. Furthermore the term and or may mean and it may mean or it may mean exclusive or it may mean one it may mean some but not all it may mean neither and or it may mean both although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In the following description and or claims the terms comprise and include along with their derivatives may be used and are intended as synonyms for each other.

Referring now to a diagram of a building such as a house having a radio frequency ambient environment capable of being monitored in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. As shown in a monitoring system may be capable of monitoring Activities of Daily Living ADL of one or more individuals inhabiting a building which may comprise for example a house apartment condominium. Such a building may include various rooms such as a kitchen dining room living room bedroom and so on. Monitoring system may include an information handling system having a wireless radio frequency RF scanner and or spectrum analyzer capable of receiving RF signals in the RF ambient environment of building . In one or more embodiments building may include various devices that transmit signals or energy at one or more RF frequencies whether intentionally transmitting RF communication signals or unintentionally radiating energy at or near RF .frequencies. For example building may include a television that may transmit and or radiate RF energy capable of being detected by information handling system . In another example a microwave oven may radiate RF energy capable of being detected by information handling system . As further examples building may include a cordless telephone emitting RF communication signals and or a personal computer PC having a wireless local area network WLAN adapter and or a wireless wide area network WWAN adapter capable of transmitting RF communication signals for example WLAN signals in compliance with an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 a b g n standard a Bluetooth standard an Ultra Wideband UWB standard or the like and or WWAN signals in compliance with an IEEE 802.16 standard a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX standard a Third Generation Partnership Plan 3GPP standard and so on although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments information handling system includes an RF spectrum scanner capable of searching for anomalies in the ambient RF environment for detection of physical activity of a monitored individual based on the individual using or operating various devices in building . Such an RF spectrum scanner is capable of continually or occasionally scanning the RF spectrum within building for anomalous RF signals or energy having levels above the level ambient RF background noise in the RF ambient environment . When an anomaly is detected by information handling system the resultant detected RF signature in question may then be compared to a database of one or more known and or recognized RF signatures. Such a database may be stored locally in information handling system or optionally stored in a remote information handling system coupled to information handling system via a network such as the Internet. An inference engine which may be tangibly embodied as a computer program or instructions capable of being executed by information handling system is capable of utilizing RF signature data detected in RF ambient environment as primary and or corroborating data in the assessment of Activities of Daily Living ADL of the one or more monitored individuals. Such an interference engine may be based at least in part on standard machine learning or correlation techniques although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments an example of how information handling system may be utilized to implement ADL monitoring may be as follows. An individual in building may use cordless telephone to make a telephone call. Cordless telephone emits an RF signal during operation for example for communication between the handset and the base of cordless telephone in accordance with a Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT standard. The RF signal emitted by cordless telephone may comprise an RF signal having an operational frequency ranging from about 1.92 GHz to about 1.93 GHz. Such an RF signal is capable of being detected by the RF scanner of information handling system which may be detected as a signature based at least in part on the signal level signal frequency signal power and so on. The signature of RF signal is forwarded from the RF scanner of information handling system to an interpreter which may comprise a computer program or instructions executed at least in part by a processor of information handling system and or at least in part by circuitry or logic devices of information handling system . The interpreter may determine if the detected signature is valid and registered that is having previously been determined to exist in the known environment of building . As cordless phone may have a recognized signature the inference engine can make the decision that someone in building is using cordless phone . The detected activity may be time stamped by information handling system and recorded in a database for future access by information handling system or some other device or user although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments if the detected RF signature is recognized but not registered in the environment of building an annotation may be made in the database of the presence of that signal for later analysis and or for possible inclusion in future decisions. For example an individual inhabiting building may purchase a new microwave oven that was not previously known to exist in building by information handling system . In one or more embodiments the signature of a microwave oven may be known to information handling system for example the signature of a microwave oven may be stored in the database but not specifically registered as a known entity of building . If such a new signature of a previously unregistered device having a known signature in the database is detected by information handling system an assumption may be made that there is a new microwave oven in building . In one or more embodiments the assumption may be confirmed to verify the correctness of the assumption. In the event it can be confirmed that there is a new microwave oven in building microwave oven may be registered as a known entity in the database and the signature of the new microwave oven may be utilized in future decision processes. However in the event a new RF signature is not recognized by information handling system the new RF signature may be recorded in the database for characterization. Once a device is characterized it can be included in the database of known signatures to be included in all future detections although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments monitoring system may involve the installation of an RF sweeping receiver as information handling system without requiring additional monitoring devices or equipment in building and or on the body of a monitored individual. Thus monitoring system may involve a reduced installation complexity cost and or invasiveness to the environment of building and or the monitored individuals. Using monitoring system capturing RF signatures in such a non invasive manner allows the user to make changes to aspects of their living environment and or daily activities without adversely affecting the performance of monitoring system for example without requiring recalibration or adjustment of monitoring system after such changes to the environment or daily activities although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments any device that emits RF signals or energy may be utilized as part of monitoring system . For example in addition to the discussed examples of a television microwave oven cordless telephone or personal computer other devices capable of being monitored by monitoring system may include lights fans motors wireless doorbells remote controls cellular telephones personal digital assistants gaming devices alarm systems and so on. The RF emissions of such devices may be detectable by information handling system without requiring the use of discrete sensors or other devices. Furthermore in one or more embodiments one or more additional specific RF emitting devices may be introduced into building for enhanced data collection for example a device having a unique customizable RF signature that emits an RF signal in response to a discreet action by a monitored individual. For example such a device may be attached to a door and may be capable of emitting an RF signal when the door is opened or closed. In one or more embodiments information handling system is capable of mapping raw RF signatures present in RF ambient environment of building to take into account RF interference and or fringing effects to take such interference and or infringing effects into account when monitoring the RF signatures of the various devices in building. For example the RF signals emitted by the devices may be attenuated by walls furniture or other architectural features of building which information handling system may take into account. Furthermore the complexity and or customization of the system may be contained on the host side that is on information handling system . As a result most or all of the processing and maintenance of monitoring system may be limited to a single device that is capable of operating based on the potentially any device capable of emitting an RF signature on the client side although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a block diagram of an information handling system capable of monitoring a radio frequency ambient environment in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. Information handling system as shown in may tangibly embody monitoring system of . Although information handling system represents one example of several types of computing platforms information handling system may include more or fewer elements and or different arrangements of elements than shown in and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

The processes and or displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing device and or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or a more specialized apparatus may be constructed to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings described herein.

As discussed herein a process may be generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts and or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated. It may be convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers and or the like. However these and or similar terms may be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

In one or more embodiments a database may refer an organization of information created stored accessed edited and or otherwise utilized by a computing platform. In one or more embodiments a tag may refer to a command contained in a file object and or document that may specify how the file object and or document and or a portion thereof may be formatted. In one or more embodiments metadata may refer to information pertaining to data contained in a file object and or document for example formatting information date of creation date of editing date saved how data was obtained and or from where data was obtained. Such metadata for example may be utilized in for database management purposes and or for data warehousing of multiple databases although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments an application programming interface API may refer to a set of routines protocols and or tools utilized to cause a program to operate in conjunction with an operating system. In one or more embodiments an operating system may refer to a program to execute on a computing platform to handle input and or output commands file management printing displaying storing and or communicating of information for the computing platform. However these are merely examples of database and or operating system functions and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

In one or more embodiments information handling system may comprise one or more processors such as processor and or processor which may comprise one or more processing cores. One or more of processor and or processor may couple to one or more memories and or via memory bridge which may be disposed external to processors and or or alternatively at least partially disposed within one or more of processors and or . Memory and or memory may comprise various types of semiconductor based memory for example volatile type memory and or non volatile type memory. Memory bridge may couple to a graphics system to drive a display device not shown coupled to information handling system .

Information handling system may further comprise input output bridge to couple to various types of systems. I O system may comprise for example a universal serial bus USB type system an IEEE 1394 type system or the like to couple one or more peripheral devices to information handling system . Bus system may comprise one or more bus systems such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI express type bus or the like to connect one or more peripheral devices to information handling system . A hard disk drive HDD controller system may couple one or more hard disk drives or the like to information handling system for example Serial ATA type drives or the like or alternatively a semiconductor based drive comprising flash memory phase change and or chalcogenide type memory or the like. Switch may be utilized to couple one or more switched devices to I O bridge for example Gigabit Ethernet type devices or the like. Furthermore as shown in information handling system may include a radio frequency RF block comprising RF circuits and devices for wireless communication with other wireless communication devices of monitoring system of . For example RF block may include an RF scanner capable of scanning the RF ambient environment of building although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a plot of a radio frequency spectrum of a building such as a house in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. As shown in plot may represent RF signals and or emissions present in RF ambient environment of building . The gain or level of such RF signals measured in decibels dB is plotted on the vertical axis with versus frequency measured in Hertz Hz on the horizontal axis . The spectrum of plot may generally represent background RF noise present in RF ambient environment . In one particular example when an individual in building operates cordless phone cordless phone may emit an RF signal at a given frequency and having a given magnitude which is typically much greater than the average level of background RF noise . Thus information handling system is capable of detecting signal and discriminating signal from background RF noise . Furthermore signal may be indicative of a unique RF signature as one example an emission from a device may exhibit a magnitude in a known range and at a known frequency from which information handling system is capable of identifying signal as being unique cordless phone . As a result the usage of cordless phone may be logged into a database by information handling system along with the time and duration that cordless phone was used by the individual. Such processing of RF signals detected by information handling system may occur according to a method a discussed with respect to below. It should be noted that the example shown in is merely one example of signal emitted from a device in building and that a characteristic signal emitted from a device may have frequency components at one or more frequencies having various magnitudes relating to the type of signal emitted for example an emitted signal may have a particular Fourier series of frequency components over a certain bandwidth In one or more embodiments information handling system may be capable of performing one or more signal processing functions as a part of the process by which a device in building may be identified for example decoding demodulating Fourier transforming Fast Fourier Transforming Inverse Fourier Transforming Inverse Fast Fourier Transforming correlating and so on and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Furthermore RF emission from devices of building may have one or more components and or characteristics that may be utilized by information handling system to identify the particular device. For example such characteristics may include but are not limited to frequency frequency components magnitude bandwidth time and or time delay phase shift modulation packet headers packet data guard intervals time division code division multiplexing characteristics fading error correction coding retransmissions and so on and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In addition multiple devices in building may radiate multiple emissions in RF ambient environment such that the emissions may be superimposed into an overall combined signal. Even is such an environment information handling system may be capable of discriminating any one or more of the characteristic emission from any one or more of the devices in building based at least in part on any one or more of the characteristics of the RF emissions so that any one or more devices in building may be identified by information handling system and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method for monitoring a radio frequency ambient environment in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. Method of may be implemented by information handling system as part of monitoring system as one example method by which the activities of daily living ADL of one or more individuals inhabiting building may be monitored. Although shows one particular example of method method may alternatively include more or fewer blocks than shown in and furthermore other orders of the blocks of method may be implemented and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments information handling system may scan the RF spectrum at block corresponding to RF ambient environment of building to detect one or more RF signals or emissions. During scanning a determination may be made at decision block whether a detected RF signal is greater than the RF background noise of RF ambient environment . If a detected RF signal is not greater than RF background noise information handling system may continue to scan the RF ambient environment. If a detected RF signal is greater than RF background noise a comparison may be made at block between the detected RF signal and one or more known RF signatures stored in a database. A determination may then be made at decision block whether the detected RF signature is recognized that is the detected RF signal matches a known RF signature of the database. In the event the detected RF signal is not recognized the RF signal may be recorded at block as an anomaly and may optionally be processed for possible future use in the database as a new device type that has not been previously recognized.

In the event the detected RF signal is recognized as a known device a determination may be made at decision block whether the recognized device is stored in the local database of devices known to be present in building . If the recognized device is not found in the local database a determination may be made at decision block whether the device is found in a master database of devices. In the event the recognized device is not found the master database an error may be logged at block and the error may be logged at block as an anomaly for possible future use. However in the event the recognized device is found in the master database the signature and activity of the recognized device may be recorded at block and flagged for future follow up. The recognized device may be added to the local database at block and registered as a device present in building . Furthermore the recognized device optionally may be validated at block to determine at whether the device should remain included in the database for regular usage. For example a new device may be permanently introduced into building that may be used by monitored individuals as part of their daily activities for example if a new microwave oven is purchased and installed in the kitchen. Alternatively it may be determined at block that the recognized device is a cellular telephone of a visitor that likely will not be present in building in the future. In such a case block may determine that the cellular telephone should not be included in the local database after the visitor leaves building . Such validation and or inclusion determination may be handled in real time or near real time by information handling system or alternatively may be handled offline or at some point in the future after detection of such a recognized device although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments if it is determined at decision block that the recognized device recognized at decision block is found in the local database then the result may be stored in the local database for example usage of the recognized device may be logged and time stamped in the local database. Such logged usage of the devices of building may be analyzed as part of the ADL monitoring of the individuals inhabiting building for example analyzed by an interference engine as described herein. In one or more embodiments such analysis may be performed locally by information handling system or may be performed by a remote device or person capable of communicating with information handling system and receiving the data logged by information handling system in a real time or near real time process or in a future or offline process for example in which the data may be stored batched or transmitted to a remote device or person although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Although the claimed subject matter has been described with a certain degree of particularity it should be recognized that elements thereof may be altered by persons skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and or scope of claimed subject matter. It is believed that the subject matter pertaining to monitoring activities of daily living using radio frequency emissions and or many of its attendant utilities will be understood by the forgoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and or arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and or spirit of the claimed subject matter or without sacrificing all of its material advantages the form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof and or further without providing substantial change thereto. It is the intention of the claims to encompass and or include such changes.

