---

title: Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein inhibitors and uses thereof
abstract: The invention provides compositions, pharmaceutical preparations and methods for inhibition of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein (CFTR) that are useful for the study and treatment of CFTR-mediated diseases and conditions. The compositions and pharmaceutical preparations of the invention may comprise one or more thiazolidinone compounds, and may additionally comprise one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, excipients and/or adjuvants. The methods of the invention comprise, in certain embodiments, administering to a patient suffering from a CFTR-mediated disease or condition, an efficacious amount of a thiazolidinone compound. In other embodiments the invention provides methods of inhibiting CFTR that comprise contacting cells in a subject with an effective amount of a thiazolidinone compound. In addition, the invention features a non-human animal model of CFTR-mediated disease which model is produced by administration of a thiazolidinone compound to a non-human animal in an amount sufficient to inhibit CFTR.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07638543&OS=07638543&RS=07638543
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 07638543
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070611
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 676 727 filed Sep. 30 2003 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 235 573 on Jun. 26 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 509 049 filed Sep. 30 2002 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 480 253 filed Jun. 20 2003 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under grants HL059198 and HL073856 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR is a cAMP activated chloride Cl channel expressed in epithelial cells in mammalian airways intestine pancreas and testis. CFTR is the chloride channel responsible for cAMP mediated Cl secretion. Hormones such as a adrenergic agonist or a toxin such as cholera toxin leads to an increase in cAMP activation of cAMP dependent protein kinase and phosphorylation of the CFTR Cl channel which causes the channel to open. An increase in cell Ca can also activate different apical membrane channels. Phosphorylation by protein kinase C can either open or shut Cl channels in the apical membrane. CFTR is predominantly located in epithelia where it provides a pathway for the movement of Cl ions across the apical membrane and a key point at which to regulate the rate of transepithelial salt and water transport. CFTR chloride channel function is associated with a wide spectrum of disease including cystic fibrosis CF and with some forms of male infertility polycystic kidney disease and secretory diarrhea.

The hereditary lethal disease cystic fibrosis CF is caused by mutations in CFTR. Observations in human cystic fibrosis CF patients and CF mouse models indicate the functional importance of CFTR in intestinal and pancreatic fluid transport as well as in male fertility Grubb et al. 1999 79 S193 S214 Wong P. Y. 1997 4 107 110 . However the mechanisms remain unclear by which defective CFTR produces airway disease which is the principal cause of morbidity and mortality in CF Pilewski et al. 1999 79 S215 S255 . Major difficulties in understanding airway disease in CF include the inadequacy of CF mouse models which manifest little or no airway disease the lack of large animal models of CF and the limited availability of human CF airways that have not been damaged by chronic infection and inflammation. High affinity CFTR selective inhibitors have not been available to study airway disease mechanisms in CF or to create the CF phenotype in large animal models.

High affinity CFTR inhibitors also have clinical applications in the therapy of secretory diarrheas and cystic kidney disease and in inhibiting male fertility. The compounds diphenylamine 2 carboxylate DPC and 5 nitro 2 3 phenylpropyl amino benzoate NPPB inhibit CFTR at high concentrations but are non specific in their inhibitory action Cabantchik et al. 1992 262 C803 C827 McDonough et al. 1994 13 623 634 Schultz et al. 1999 79 S109 S144 . The best CFTR inhibitor available for electrophysiological and other cell based studies glibenclamide is used at concentrations of 100 M Sheppard et al. 1992 100 573 591 Hongre et al 1994 426 284 287 . However at this concentration glibenclamide also inhibits other Cl transporters as well as K channels Edwards et al. 1993 110 1280 1281 Rabe et al. 1995 429 659 662 Yamazaki et al. 1997 81 101 109 . Effective small molecule inhibitors of other ion transport proteins are known but no small molecules with specific CFTR inhibitory ability suitable for therapy of secretory diseases have been available.

There is accordingly a need for CFTR inhibitor compounds and methods of using such compounds for development of animal models useful in the study and treatment of CF and the treatment and control of secretory disorders. The present invention addresses these needs as well as others and overcomes deficiencies found in the background art.

The invention provides compositions pharmaceutical preparations and methods for inhibition of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR that are useful for the study and treatment of CFTR mediated diseases and conditions. The compositions and pharmaceutical preparations of the invention may comprise one or more thiazolidinone compounds or derivatives and may additionally comprise one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients and or adjuvants. The methods of the invention comprise in certain embodiments administering to a patient suffering from a CFTR mediated disease or condition an efficacious amount of a thiazolidinone compound or derivative. In other embodiments the invention provides methods of inhibiting CFTR that comprise contacting cells in a subject with an effective amount of a thiazolidinone compound or derivative. In addition the invention features a non human animal model of CFTR mediated disease which model is produced by administration of a thiazolidinone compound or derivative to a non human animal in an amount sufficient to inhibit CFTR.

These and other objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the detailed description below.

Before the present invention is described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described as such may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention the preferred methods and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the methods and or materials in connection with which the publications are cited.

It should be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an inhibitor includes a plurality of such inhibitors and reference to the cell includes reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application and are incorporated herein by reference. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates that may need to be independently confirmed.

The definitions used herein are provided for reason of clarity and should not be considered as limiting. The technical and scientific terms used herein are intended to have the same meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains.

The invention is based on the discovery of thiazolidinone compounds and derivatives that are high affinity CFTR inhibitors. The structure of the compounds and derivatives of the invention as well as pharmaceutical formulations and methods of use are described in more detail below.

A cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein mediated condition or symptom or CFTR mediated condition or symptom means any condition disorder or disease or symptom of such condition disorder or disease that results from activity of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR e.g. activity of CFTR in ion transport. Such conditions disorders diseases or symptoms thereof are treatable by inhibition of CFTR activity e.g. inhibition of CFTR ion transport. CFTR activity has been implicated in for example intestinal secretion in response to various agonists including cholera toxin see e.g. Snyder et al. 1982 60 605 613 Chao et al. 1994 13 1065 1072 Kimberg et al. 1971 50 1218 1230 .

A CFTR inhibitor as used herein is a compound that reduces the efficiency of ion transport by CFTR particularly with respect to transport of chloride ions by CFTR. Preferably CFTR inhibitors of the invention are specific CFTR inhibitors i.e. compounds that inhibit CFTR activity without significantly or adversely affecting activity of other ion transporters e.g. other chloride transporters potassium transporters and the like. Preferably the CFTR inhibitors are high affinity CFTR inhibitors e.g. have an affinity for CFTR of at least about one micromolar usually about one to five micromolar.

 Treating or treatment as used herein covers the treatment of a disease condition disorder or symptom in a subject wherein the disease condition disorder or symptom is mediated by the activity of CFTR and includes 1 preventing the disease condition or disorder i.e. causing the clinical symptoms of the disease not to develop in a subject that may be exposed to or predisposed to the disease condition or disorder but does not yet experience or display symptoms thereof 2 inhibiting the disease condition or disorder i.e. arresting or reducing the development of the disease condition or disorder or its clinical symptoms or 3 relieving the disease condition or disorder i.e. causing regression of the disease condition or disorder or its clinical symptoms.

A therapeutically effective amount or efficacious amount means the amount of a compound of the invention that when administered to a mammal or other subject in need thereof is sufficient to effect treatment as defined above for diseases conditions disorders or symptoms mediated by the activity of CFTR. The amount of a compound of the invention that constitutes a therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the disease and its severity and the age weight etc. of the subject to be treated but can be determined routinely by one of ordinary skill in the art having regard to his own knowledge and to this disclosure.

The terms subject and patient mean a member or members of any mammalian or non mammalian species that may have a need for the pharmaceutical methods compositions and treatments described herein. Subjects and patients thus include without limitation primate including humans canine feline ungulate e.g. equine bovine swine e.g. pig avian and other subjects. Humans and non human animals having commercial importance e.g. livestock and domesticated animals are of particular interest.

 Mammal means a member or members of any mammalian species and includes by way of example canines felines equines bovines ovines rodentia etc. and primates particularly humans. Non human animal models particularly mammals e.g. primate murine lagomorpha etc. may be used for experimental investigations.

The term unit dosage form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosages for human and animal subjects each unit containing a predetermined quantity of compounds of the present invention calculated in an amount sufficient to produce the desired effect in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent carrier or vehicle. The specifications for the novel unit dosage forms of the present invention depend on the particular compound employed and the effect to be achieved and the pharmacodynamics associated with each compound in the host.

The term physiological conditions is meant to encompass those conditions compatible with living cells e.g. predominantly aqueous conditions of a temperature pH salinity etc. that are compatible with living cells.

A pharmaceutically acceptable excipient means an excipient that is useful in preparing a pharmaceutical composition that is generally safe non toxic and neither biologically nor otherwise undesirable and includes an excipient that is acceptable for veterinary use as well as human pharmaceutical use. A pharmaceutically acceptable excipient as used in the specification and claims includes both one and more than one such excipient.

As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives of a compound of the invention include salts esters enol ethers enol esters acetals ketals orthoesters hemiacetals hemiketals acids bases solvates hydrates or prodrugs thereof. Such derivatives may be readily prepared by those of skill in this art using known methods for such derivatization. The compounds produced may be administered to animals or humans without substantial toxic effects and either are pharmaceutically active or are prodrugs.

A pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of the invention means a salt that is pharmaceutically acceptable and that possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound. Such salts include 1 acid addition salts formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or formed with organic acids such as acetic acid propionic acid hexanoic acid cyclopentanepropionic acid glycolic acid pyruvic acid lactic acid malonic acid succinic acid malic acid maleic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid benzoic acid 3 4 hydroxybenzoyl benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid 1 2 ethanedisulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid 4 chlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 naphthalenesulfonic acid 4 toluenesulfonic acid camphorsulfonic acid 4 methylbicyclo 2.2.2 oct 2 ene 1 carboxylic acid glucoheptonic acid 4 4 methylenebis 3 hydroxy 2 ene 1 carboxylic acid 3 phenylpropionic acid trimethylacetic acid tertiary butylacetic acid lauryl sulfuric acid gluconic acid glutamic acid hydroxynaphthoic acid salicylic acid stearic acid muconic acid and the like or 2 salts formed when an acidic proton present in the parent compound either is replaced by a metal ion e.g. an alkali metal ion an alkaline earth ion or an aluminum ion or coordinates with an organic base such as ethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine tromethamine N methylglucamine and the like.

A pharmaceutically acceptable ester of a compound of the invention means an ester that is pharmaceutically acceptable and that possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound and includes but is not limited to alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl aralkyl heteroaralkyl cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl esters of acidic groups including but not limited to carboxylic acids phosphoric acids phosphinic acids sulfonic acids sulfinic acids and boronic acids.

A pharmaceutically acceptable enol ether of a compound of the invention means an enol ether that is pharmaceutically acceptable and that possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound and includes but is not limited to derivatives of formula C C OR where R is hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl aralkyl heteroaralkyl cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl.

A pharmaceutically acceptable enol ester of a compound of the invention means an enol ester that is pharmaceutically acceptable and that possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound and includes but is not limited to derivatives of formula C C OC O R where R is hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl aralkyl heteroaralkyl cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl.

A pharmaceutically acceptable solvate or hydrate of a compound of the invention means a solvate or hydrate complex that is pharmaceutically acceptable and that possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound and includes but is not limited to complexes of a compound of the invention with one or more solvent or water molecules or 1 to about 100 or 1 to about 10 or one to about 2 3 or 4 solvent or water molecules.

A pro drug means any compound that releases an active parent compound of formula I in vivo when the prodrug is administered to a mammalian subject. Prodrugs of the compounds of formula I contain functional groups that under standard physiological conditions are hydrolyzed into the corresponding carboxy hydroxy amino or sulfhydryl group. Examples of such functional groups include but are not limited to esters e.g. acetate formate and benzoate derivatives and carbamates e.g. N N dimethylaminocarbonyl of hydroxy groups in compounds of formula I and the like. Additional examples include dipeptide or tripeptide esters of hydroxy or carboxy groups in compounds of formula I and the like. The preparation of such functional groups is well known in the art. For example a compound of formula I having a hydroxy group attached thereto e.g. when X X X Y Yor Yis hydroxy may be treated with a carboxylic acid or a dipeptide having a free carboxy terminus under esterification conditions well known in the art to yield the desired ester functional group. Likewise a compound of formula I having a free carboxy group attached thereto may be treated with an alcohol or a tripeptide containing a hydroxy group such as a serine residue e.g. N H C H CHOH C O under esterification conditions well known in the art to produce the desired ester functional group. In addition compounds of formula I having a carboxylic ester group attached thereto may be treated with a different carboxylic ester under standard transesterification conditions to produce compounds of formula I with the desired functional ester group attached thereto. All such functional groups are considered to be within the scope of this invention.

The term organic group and organic radical as used herein means any carbon containing group including hydrocarbon groups that are classified as an aliphatic group cyclic group aromatic group functionalized derivatives thereof and or various combination thereof. The term aliphatic group means a saturated or unsaturated linear or branched hydrocarbon group and encompasses alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups for example. The term alkyl group means a substituted or unsubstituted saturated linear or branched hydrocarbon group or chain e.g. Cto C including for example methyl ethyl isopropyl tert butyl heptyl n octyl dodecyl octadecyl amyl 2 ethylhexyl and the like. Suitable substituents include carboxy protected carboxy amino protected amino halo hydroxy protected hydroxy mercapto lower alkylthio nitro cyano monosubstituted amino protected monosubstituted amino disubstituted amino Cto Calkoxy Cto Cacyl Cto Cacyloxy and the like. The term substituted alkyl means the above defined alkyl group substituted from one to three times by a hydroxy protected hydroxy amino protected amino cyano halo trifloromethyl mono substituted amino di substituted amino lower alkoxy mercapto lower alkylthio carboxy protected carboxy or a carboxy amino and or hydroxy salt. As used in conjunction with the substituents for the heteroaryl rings the terms substituted cycloalkyl alkyl and substituted cycloalkyl are as defined below substituted with the same groups as listed for a substituted alkyl group. The term alkenyl group means an unsaturated linear or branched hydrocarbon group with one or more carbon carbon double bonds such as a vinyl group. The term alkynyl group means an unsaturated linear or branched hydrocarbon group with one or more carbon carbon triple bonds. The term cyclic group means a closed ring hydrocarbon group that is classified as an alicyclic group aromatic group or heterocyclic group. The term alicyclic group means a cyclic hydrocarbon group having properties resembling those of aliphatic groups. The term aromatic group or aryl group means a mono or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon group and may include one or more heteroatoms and which are further defined below. The term heterocyclic group means a closed ring hydrocarbon in which one or more of the atoms in the ring are an element other than carbon e.g. nitrogen oxygen sulfur etc. and are further defined below.

 Organic groups may be functionalized or otherwise comprise additional functionalities associated with the organic group such as carboxyl amino hydroxyl and the like which may be protected or unprotected. For example the phrase alkyl group is intended to include not only pure open chain saturated hydrocarbon alkyl substituents such as methyl ethyl propyl t butyl and the like but also alkyl substituents bearing further substituents known in the art such as hydroxy alkoxy mercapto alkylthio alkylsulfonyl halo cyano nitro amino carboxyl etc. Thus alkyl group includes ethers esters haloalkyls nitroalkyls carboxyalkyls hydroxyalkyls sulfoalkyls etc.

The terms halo group or halogen are used interchangeably herein and refer to the fluoro chloro bromo or iodo groups. Preferred halogens are chloro and fluoro.

The term haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group as defined above that is substituted by one or more halogen atoms. The halogen atoms may be the same or different. The term dihaloalkyl refers to an alkyl group as described above that is substituted by two halo groups which may be the same or different. The term trihaloalkyl refers to an alkyl group as describe above that is substituted by three halo groups which may be the same or different. The term perhaloalkyl refers to a haloalkyl group as defined above wherein each hydrogen atom in the alkyl group has been replaced by a halogen atom. The term perfluoroalkyl refers to a haloalkyl group as defined above wherein each hydrogen atom in the alkyl group has been replaced by a fluoro group.

The term cycloalkyl means a mono bi or tricyclic saturated ring that is fully saturated or partially unsaturated. Examples of such a group included cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl adamantyl cyclooctyl cis or trans decalin bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 ene cyclohex 1 enyl cyclopent 1 enyl 1 4 cyclooctadienyl and the like.

The term cycloalkyl alkyl means the above defined alkyl group substituted for one of the above cycloalkyl rings. Examples of such a group include cyclohexyl methyl 3 cyclopropyl n propyl 5 cyclopentyl hexyl 6 adamantyl hexyl and the like.

The term substituted phenyl specifies a phenyl group substituted with one or more moieties and in some instances one two or three moieties chosen from the groups consisting of halogen hydroxy protected hydroxy cyano nitro mercapto alkylthio trifluoromethyl Cto Calkyl Cto Calkoxy Cto Cacyl Cto Cacyloxy carboxy oxycarboxy protected carboxy carboxymethyl protected carboxymethyl hydroxymethyl protected hydroxymethyl amino protected amino monosubstituted amino protected monosubstituted amino disubstituted amino carboxamide protected carboxamide N Cto Calkyl carboxamide protected N Cto Calkyl carboxamide N N di Cto Calkyl carboxamide trifluoromethyl N Cto Calkyl sulfonyl amino N phenylsulfonyl amino or phenyl substituted or unsubstituted such that for example a biphenyl or naphthyl group results.

Examples of the term substituted phenyl includes a mono or di halo phenyl group such as 2 3 or 4 chlorophenyl 2 6 dichlorophenyl 2 5 dichlorophenyl 3 4 dichlorophenyl 2 3 or 4 bromophenyl 3 4 dibromophenyl 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 3 or 4 fluorophenyl and the like a mono or di hydroxy phenyl group such as 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl the protected hydroxy derivatives thereof and the like a nitrophenyl group such as 2 3 or 4 nitrophenyl a cyanophenyl group for example 2 3 or 4 cyanophenyl a mono or di alkyl phenyl group such as 2 3 or 4 methylphenyl 2 4 dimethylphenyl 2 3 or 4 iso propyl phenyl 2 3 or 4 ethylphenyl 2 3 or 4 n propyl phenyl and the like a mono or di alkoxy phenyl group for example 2 6 dimethoxyphenyl 2 3 or 4 isopropoxy phenyl 2 3 or 4 t butoxy phenyl 3 ethoxy 4 methoxyphenyl and the like 2 3 or 4 trifluoromethylphenyl a mono or dicarboxyphenyl or protected carboxy phenyl group such as 2 3 or 4 carboxyphenyl or 2 4 di protected carboxy phenyl a mono or di hydroxymethyl phenyl or protected hydroxymethyl phenyl such as 2 3 or 4 protected hydroxymethyl phenyl or 3 4 di hydroxymethyl phenyl a mono or di aminomethyl phenyl or protected aminomethyl phenyl such as 2 3 or 4 aminomethyl phenyl or 2 4 protected aminomethyl phenyl or a mono or di N methylsulfonylamino phenyl such as 2 3 or 4 N methylsulfonylamino phenyl. Also the term substituted phenyl represents disubstituted phenyl groups wherein the substituents are different for example 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 methoxy 4 bromophenyl 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 hydroxy 4 nitrophenyl 2 hydroxy 4 chlorophenyl and the like.

The term substituted phenyl alkyl means one of the above substituted phenyl groups attached to one of the above described alkyl groups. Examples include such groups as 2 phenyl 1 chloroethyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl 4 2 6 dihydroxy phenyl n hexyl 2 5 cyano 3 methoxyphenyl n pentyl 3 2 6 dimethylphenyl propyl 4 chloro 3 aminobenzyl 6 4 methoxyphenyl 3 carboxyhexyl 5 4 aminomethylphenyl 3 aminomethyl pentyl 5 phenyl 3 oxopent 1 yl 4 hydroxynapth 2 yl methyl and the like.

As noted above the term aromatic or aryl refers to five and six membered carbocyclic rings. Also as noted above the term heteroaryl denotes optionally substituted five membered or six membered rings that have 1 to 4 heteroatoms such as oxygen sulfur and or nitrogen atoms in particular nitrogen either alone or in conjunction with sulfur or oxygen ring atoms. These five membered or six membered rings may be fully unsaturated.

Furthermore the above optionally substituted five membered or six membered rings can optionally be fused to an aromatic 5 membered or 6 membered ring system. For example the rings can be optionally fused to an aromatic 5 membered or 6 membered ring system such as a pyridine or a triazole system and preferably to a benzene ring.

The following ring systems are examples of the heterocyclic whether substituted or unsubstituted radicals denoted by the term heteroaryl thienyl furyl pyrrolyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl oxadiazolyl tetrazolyl thiatriazolyl oxatriazolyl pyridyl pyrimidyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl oxazinyl triazinyl thiadiazinyl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazinyl and purinyl as well as benzo fused derivatives for example benzoxazolyl benzthiazolyl benzimidazolyl and indolyl.

Substituents for the above optionally substituted heteroaryl rings are from one to three halo trihalomethyl amino protected amino amino salts mono substituted amino di substituted amino carboxy protected carboxy carboxylate salts hydroxy protected hydroxy salts of a hydroxy group lower alkoxy mercapto lower alkylthio alkyl substituted alkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl cycloalkyl alkyl substituted cycloalkyl alkyl phenyl substituted phenyl phenylalkyl and substituted phenyl alkyl. Substituents for the heteroaryl group are as heretofore defined or in the case of trihalomethyl can be trifluoromethyl trichloromethyl tribromomethyl or triiodomethyl. As used in conjunction with the above substituents for heteroaryl rings lower alkoxy means a Cto Calkoxy group similarly lower alkylthio means a Cto Calkylthio group.

The term monosubstituted amino refers to an amino group with one substituent chosen from the group consisting of phenyl substituted phenyl alkyl substituted alkyl Cto Cacyl Cto Calkenyl Cto Csubstituted alkenyl Cto Calkynyl Cto Calkylaryl Cto Csubstituted alkylaryl and heteroaryl group. The monosubstituted amino can additionally have an amino protecting group as encompassed by the term protected monosubstituted amino. The term disubstituted amino refers to amino groups with two substituents chosen from the group consisting of phenyl substituted phenyl alkyl substituted alkyl Cto Cacyl Cto Calkenyl Cto Calkynyl Cto Calkylaryl Cto Csubstituted alkylaryl and heteroaryl. The two substituents can be the same or different.

The term heteroaryl alkyl denotes an alkyl group as defined above substituted at any position by a heteroaryl group as above defined.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event circumstance feature or element may but need not occur and that the description includes instances where the event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example heterocyclo group optionally mono or disubstituted with an alkyl group means that the alkyl may but need not be present and the description includes situations where the heterocyclo group is mono or disubstituted with an alkyl group and situations where the heterocyclo group is not substituted with the alkyl group.

The term electron withdrawing group refers to the ability of a functional group on a molecule to draw electrons to itself more than a hydrogen atom would if the hydrogen atom occupied the same position in the molecule. Examples of electron withdrawing groups include but are not limited to halogen groups C O R groups where R is alkyl carboxylic acid and ester groups NR groups where R is alkyl or hydrogen azo nitro OR and SR groups where R is hydrogen or alkyl and organic groups as defined herein containing such electron withdrawing groups such as haloalkyl groups including perhaloalkyl groups and the like.

Compounds that have the same molecular formula but differ in the nature or sequence of bonding of their atoms or the arrangement of their atoms in space are termed isomers. Isomers that differ in the arrangement of their atoms in space are termed stereoisomers. Stereoisomers that are not mirror images of one another are termed diastereomers and those that are non superimposable mirror images of each other are termed enantiomers. When a compound has an asymmetric center for example it is bonded to four different groups a pair of enantiomers is possible. An enantiomer can be characterized by the absolute configuration of its asymmetric center and is described by the R and S sequencing rules of Cahn and Prelog or by the manner in which the molecule rotates the plane of polarized light and designated as dextrorotatory or levorotatory i.e. as or isomers respectively . A chiral compound can exist as either an individual enantiomer or as a mixture of thereof. A mixture containing equal proportions of the enantiomers is called a racemic mixture. 

The compounds of this invention may possess one or more asymmetric centers such compounds can therefore be produced as individual R or S stereoisomers or as mixtures thereof. Unless indicated otherwise the description or naming of a particular compound in the specification and claims is intended to include both individual enantiomers and mixtures racemic or otherwise thereof. The methods for the determination of stereochemistry and the separation of stereoisomers are well known in the art see e.g. the discussion in Chapter 4 of Advanced Organic Chemistry 4th edition J. March John Wiley and Sons New York 1992 .

The invention provides thiazolidinone compositions thiazolidinone derivatives compositions and methods of their use in high affinity inhibition of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR and for the study and treatment of CFTR mediated diseases and conditions. The discovery of the subject thiazolidinone compounds and derivatives was based on screening of numerous potential candidate compounds using an assay designed to identify CFTR inhibitors that interact directly with CFTR. Without being held to any particular theory or mode of operation since multiple CFTR activators that work on different activating pathways were included in the studies leading to identification of the subject compounds the inhibitory compounds of the invention likely effect inhibition by acting at or near the CFTR Cl transporting pathway. A screening of 50 000 diverse compounds identified several 2 thioxo 4 thiazolidinone compounds and derivatives as effective CFTR inhibitors. These compounds and derivatives are unrelated chemically and structurally to previously known CFTR activators or to the previously known CFTR inhibitors DPC NPPB or glibenclamide. The most potent CFTR inhibitor identified from screening had a Kof 300 nM for inhibition of Cl current in human airway cells. Inhibition was rapid reversible and CFTR specific.

The thiazolidinone compounds and derivatives used in the compositions and methods of the invention comprise a heterocyclic ring of five or more atoms including an aryl substituted nitrogen at least one sulfur oxygen or selenium heteroatom and one or more carbonyl or thiocarbonyl groups associated with the heterocyclic ring. More specifically the subject thiazolidinone compounds and derivatives may have the following formula I 

In certain embodiments the thiazolidinone compounds and derivatives of formula I above comprise the formula Ia 

The subject thiazolidinone compounds and derivatives of formula I in many embodiments may comprise 3 aryl 5 arylmethylene 2 thioxo 4 thiazolidinones of the formula Ib 

Also provided by the invention are pharmaceutical preparations of the subject thiazolidinone compounds described above. The subject compounds can be incorporated into a variety of formulations for therapeutic administration by a variety of routes. More particularly the compounds of the present invention can be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions by combination with appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents excipients and or adjuvants and may be formulated into preparations in solid semi solid liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets capsules powders granules ointments solutions suppositories injections inhalants and aerosols. Preferably the formulations are free of detectable DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide which is not a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent excipient or adjuvant for non topical parenteral administration or enteral administration. The formulations may be designed for administration to subjects or patients in need thereof via a number of different routes including oral buccal rectal parenteral intraperitoneal intradermal transdermal intracheal etc. administration.

In one embodiment topical administration e.g. by transdermal administration is of interest. Topical formulations can be in the form of a transdermal patch ointment paste lotion cream gel and the like. Topical formulations may include one or more of a penetrating agent thickener diluent emulsifier dispersing aid or binder. Where the compound is formulated for transdermal delivery the compound may be formulated with or for use with a penetration enhancer. Penetration enhancers which include chemical penetration enhancers and physical penetration enhancers facilitate delivery of the compound through the skin and may also be referred to as permeation enhancers interchangeably. Physical penetration enhancers include for example electrophoretic techniques such as iontophoresis use of ultrasound or phonophoresis and the like. Chemical penetration enhancers are agents administered either prior to with or immediately following compound administration which increase the permeability of the skin particularly the stratum corneum to provide for enhanced penetration of the drug through the skin.

Compounds that have been used to enhance skin permeability include the sulfoxides dimethylsulfoxide DMSO and decylmethylsulfoxide CMSO ethers such as diethylene glycol monoethyl ether dekaoxyethylene oleylether and diethylene glycol monomethyl ether surfactants such as sodium laurate sodium lauryl sulfate cetyltrimethylammonium bromide benzalkonium chloride Poloxamer 231 182 184 Tween 20 40 60 80 and lecithin the 1 substituted azacycloheptan 2 ones particularly 1 n dodecylcyclazacycloheptan 2 one alcohols such as ethanol propanol octanol benzyl alcohol and the like petrolatums such as petroleum jelly petrolatum mineral oil liquid petrolatum and the like fatty acids such as C Cand other fatty acids e.g. isostearic acid octanoic acid oleic acid lauric acid valeric acid C Cfatty alcohols e.g. oleyl alcohol lauryl alcohol lower alkyl esters of C Cfatty acids and other fatty acids e.g. ethyl oleate isopropyl myristate butyl stearate methyl laurate isopropyl myristate isopropyl palmitate methylpropionate ethyl oleate monoglycerides of C Cfatty acids e.g. glyceryl monolaurate tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycol ether 2 2 ethoxyethoxy ethanol diethylene glycol monomethyl ether alkylaryl ethers of polyethylene oxide polyethylene oxide monomethyl ethers polyethylene oxide dimethyl ethers di lower alkyl esters of C Cdiacids e.g. diisopropyl adipate ethyl acetate acetoacetic ester polyols and esters thereof such as propylene glycol ethylene glycol glycerol butanediol polyethylene glycol and polyethylene glycol monolaurate amides and other nitrogenous compounds such as urea dimethylacetamide DMA dimethylformamide DMF 2 pyrrolidone N alkylpyrrolidone e.g. 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone ethanol amine diethanol amine and triethanolamine terpenes alkanones and organic acids particularly salicylic acid and salicylates citric acid and succinic acid. Additional chemical and physical penetration enhancers are described in for example Transdermal Delivery of Drugs A. F. Kydonieus ED 1987 CRL Press Percutaneous Penetration Enhancers eds. Smith et al. CRC Press 1995 Lenneruas et al. J Pharm Pharmacol 2002 54 4 499 508 Karande et al. Pharm Res 2002 19 5 655 60 Vaddi et al. J Pharm Sci 2002 July 91 7 1639 51 Ventura et al. J Drug Target 2001 9 5 379 93 Shokri et al. Int J Pharm 2001 228 1 2 99 107 Suzuki et al. Biol Pharm Bull 2001 24 6 698 700 Alberti et al. J Control Release 2001 71 3 319 27 Goldstein et al. Urology 2001 57 2 301 5 Kiijavainen et al. Eur J Pharm Sci 2000 10 2 97 102 and Tenjarla et al. Int J Pharm 1999 192 2 147 58.

Where the compound is formulated with a chemical penetration enhancer the penetration enhancer is selected for compatibility with the compound and is present in an amount sufficient to facilitate delivery of the compound through skin of a subject e.g. for delivery of the compound to the systemic circulation. In one embodiment the compound is formulated with a penetration enhancer other than DMSO.

In one embodiment the compound is provided in a drug delivery patch e.g. a transmucosal or transdermal patch and can be formulated with a penetration enhancer. The patch generally includes a backing layer which is impermeable to the compound and other formulation components a matrix in contact with one side of the backing layer which matrix provides for sustained release which may be controlled release of the compound and an adhesive layer which is on the same side of the backing layer as the matrix. The matrix can be selected as is suitable for the route of administration and can be for example and can be a polymeric or hydrogel matrix.

In pharmaceutical dosage forms the subject compounds of the invention may be administered in the form of their pharmaceutically acceptable derivative such as a salt or they may also be used alone or in appropriate association as well as in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds. The following methods and excipients are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting.

For oral preparations the subject compounds can be used alone or in combination with appropriate additives to make tablets powders granules or capsules for example with conventional additives such as lactose mannitol corn starch or potato starch with binders such as crystalline cellulose cellulose derivatives acacia corn starch or gelatins with disintegrators such as corn starch potato starch or sodium carboxymethylcellulose with lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and if desired with diluents buffering agents moistening agents preservatives and flavoring agents. Of particular interest is formulation of the subject thiazolidinone compounds with a buffering agent to provide for protection of the compound from low pH of the gastric environment. It may also be preferable to provide an enteric coating so as to avoid precipitation of the compound while in transit through the stomach.

The subject compounds of the invention can be formulated into preparations for injection by dissolving suspending or emulsifying them in an aqueous or nonaqueous solvent such as vegetable or other similar oils synthetic aliphatic acid glycerides esters of higher aliphatic acids or propylene glycol and if desired with conventional additives such as solubilizers isotonic agents suspending agents emulsifying agents stabilizers and preservatives. Solubilizers of particular interest include vitamin E TPGS d tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate cyclodextrins and the like.

The compounds of the invention can be utilized in aerosol formulation to be administered via inhalation. The compounds of the present invention can be formulated into pressurized acceptable propellants such as dichlorodifluoromethane propane nitrogen and the like.

Furthermore the subject compounds can be made into suppositories by mixing with a variety of bases such as emulsifying bases or water soluble bases. The compounds of the present invention can be administered rectally via a suppository. The suppository can include vehicles such as cocoa butter carbowaxes and polyethylene glycols which melt at body temperature yet are solidified at room temperature.

Unit dosage forms for oral or rectal administration such as syrups elixirs and suspensions may be provided wherein each dosage unit for example teaspoonful tablespoonful tablet or suppository contains a predetermined amount of the composition containing one or more inhibitors. Similarly unit dosage forms for injection or intravenous administration may comprise the inhibitor s in a composition as a solution in sterile water normal saline or another pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Depending on the subject and condition being treated and on the administration route the subject compounds may be administered in dosages of for example 0.1 g to 10 mg kg body weight per day. The range is broad since in general the efficacy of a therapeutic effect for different mammals varies widely with doses typically being 20 30 or even 40 times smaller per unit body weight in man than in the rat. Similarly the mode of administration can have a large effect on dosage. The inventors have found that cholera toxin induced intestinal fluid secretion in mice is effectively blocked by a single intraperitoneal dose of about 10 20 micrograms with a dosage of about ten times greater being effective in rats. Thus for example oral dosages may be about ten times the injection dose. Higher doses may be used for localized routes of delivery.

A typical dosage may be a solution suitable for intravenous administration a tablet taken from two to six times daily or one time release capsule or tablet taken once a day and containing a proportionally higher content of active ingredient etc. The time release effect may be obtained by capsule materials that dissolve at different pH values by capsules that release slowly by osmotic pressure or by any other known means of controlled release.

For use in the subject methods the subject compounds may be formulated with other pharmaceutically active agents including other CFTR inhibiting agents.

Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients usable with the invention such as vehicles adjuvants carriers or diluents are readily available to the public. Moreover pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances such as pH adjusting and buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents stabilizers wetting agents and the like are readily available to the public.

Those of skill in the art will readily appreciate that dose levels can vary as a function of the specific compound the severity of the symptoms and the susceptibility of the subject to side effects. Preferred dosages for a given compound are readily determinable by those of skill in the art by a variety of means.

Kits with unit doses of the subject compounds usually in oral or injectable doses are provided. In such kits in addition to the containers containing the unit doses will be an informational package insert describing the use and attendant benefits of the drugs in treating pathological condition of interest. Preferred compounds and unit doses are those described herein above.

The CFTR inhibitors disclosed herein are useful in the treatment of a CFTR mediated condition i.e. any condition disorder or disease or symptom of such condition disorder or disease that results from activity of CFTR e.g. activity of CFTR in ion transport. Such conditions disorders diseases or symptoms thereof are amenable to treatment by inhibition of CFTR activity e.g. inhibition of CFTR ion transport.

In one embodiment the CFTR inhibitors of the invention are used in the treatment of conditions associated with aberrantly increased intestinal secretion particularly acute aberrantly increased intestinal secretion. CFTR activity has been implicated in intestinal secretion in response to various agonists including cholera toxin see e.g. Snyder et al. 1982 60 605 613 Chao et al 1994 13 1065 1072 Kimberg et al. 1971 50 1218 1230 . Thus CFTR inhibitors of the invention can be administered in an amount effective to inhibit CFTR ion transport and thus decrease intestinal fluid secretion.

Thus CFTR inhibitors can be used in the treatment of intestinal inflammatory disorders and diarrhea particularly secretory diarrhea. Secretory diarrhea is the biggest cause of infant death in developing countries with about 5 million deaths annually Gabriel et al. 1994 266 107 109 . Several studies including those using CF mice indicate that CFTR is the final common pathway for intestinal chloride ion and thus fluid secretion in response to various agonists Snyder et al. 1982 60 605 613 Chao et al. 1994 13 1065 1072 and Kimberg et al. 1971 50 1218 1230 . The mouse models of intestinal fluid secretion used herein indicate that CFTR inhibition by systemic administration of the inhibitor at a non toxic dose effectively blocked intestinal fluid secretion induced by cholera toxin see Examples .

Diarrhea that may be amenable to treatment using the CFTR inhibitors of the invention can result from exposure to a variety of pathogens or agents including without limitation cholera toxin particularly enterotoxigenic ETEC parasites e.g. diarrheal viruses e.g. rotavirus food poisoning or toxin exposure that results in increased intestinal secretion mediated by CFTR.

Other diarrheas include diarrhea associated with AIDS e.g. AIDS related diarrhea and inflammatory gastrointestinal disorders such as ulcerative colitis inflammatory bowel disease IBD Crohn s disease and the like. It has been reported that intestinal inflammation modulates the expression of three major mediators of intestinal salt transport and may contribute to diarrhea in ulcerative colitis both by increasing transepithelial Cl secretion and by inhibiting the epithelial NaCl absorption see e.g. Lohi et al. 2002 283 3 G567 75 .

CFTR inhibitors of the invention can also be used in treatment of conditions such as polycystic kidney disease and find further use as male infertility drugs by inhibition of CFTR activity in the testis.

CFTR inhibitors of the invention can be further screened in larger animal models e.g. the rabbit model described in Spira et al. 1981 32 739 747 . In addition analysis of stool output using live can also be examined to further characterize the CFTR inhibitors of the invention.

The CFTR inhibitors of the invention can also be used to generate non human animal models of disease where the disease is associated with decreased CFTR function e.g. decreased ion transport . There is increasing evidence that defective fluid and macromolecular secretion by airway submucosal glands leads to impaired mucociliary and bacterial clearance in CFTR deficient subjects particularly in those affected with cystic fibrosis CF however functional studies in human airway glands have been restricted to severely diseased airways obtained at the time of lung transplantation Jayaraman et al. 2001 98 8119 8123 . Acute CFTR inhibition permits determination of the role of CFTR in water salt and macromolecule secretion by submucosal glands. High affinity CFTR inhibitors permit the pharmacological creation of non human animal models that mimic CFTR deficiency in humans e.g. mimics the human CF phenotype. In particular large animal models of CFTR deficiency e.g. CF find particular use in elucidating the pathophysiology of initiation and progression of airway disease in CF and in evaluating the efficacy of CF therapies e.g. screening candidate agents for treatment of CFTR deficiencies or symptoms thereof.

Inhibition of CFTR ion transport can be manifested in airway and pancreatic disorders as well as infertility in males. For example inhibition of CFTR channels in the lungs and airways influences airway surface fluids leading to accumulation of mucus which in turn plugs airways and collects heavily on the lung walls providing a prime environment for infection to occur which in turn can lead to chronic lung disease. This same phenomenon occurs in the pancreas where the accumulated mucus disrupts the exocrine function of the pancreas and prevents essential food processing enzymes from reaching the intestines.

Such non human animal models can be generated by administration of an amount of a CFTR inhibitor effective to decrease CFTR activity in ion transport. Of particular interest is the use of the CFTR inhibitors of the invention to induce the cystic fibrosis CF phenotype in a non human animal. Administration of an amount of a CFTR inhibitor effective to inhibit CFTR receptors in for example lung effectively mimics the CFTR defect found in CF. Routes of delivery for CFTR inhibitor are discussed in detail above. Depending on the non human animal used the subject compounds may be administered in dosages of for example 50 to 500 g kg body weight one to three times a day by an intraperitoneal subcutaneous or other route to generate the non human animal models. Oral dosages may be up to about ten times the intraperitoneal or subcutaneous dose.

Non human animal models of CFTR associated disease can be used as models of any appropriate condition associated with decreased CFTR activity. Such conditions include those that are associated with CFTR mutations which mutations result in abnormalities in epithelial ion and water transport. These abnormalities can in turn be associated with derangements in airway mucociliary clearance as well as in other mucosal epithelia and ductal epithelia. Conditions that can be pharmacologically modeled by inducing a CFTR deficient phenotype in a non human animal include without limitation cystic fibrosis including atypical CF idiopathic chronic pancreatitis vas deferens defects mild pulmonary disease asthma and the like. For a review of disorders associated with impaired CFTR function see e.g. Noone et al. 2 328 332 2001 . CFTR inhibitor generated non human animal models can also serve as models of microbial infection e.g. bacterial viral or fungal infection particularly respiratory infections in a CFTR deficient subject. In one embodiment of particular interest the CFTR inhibitors of the invention are used to pharmacologically induce the cystic fibrosis CF phenotype.

Animals suitable for use in the production of the animal models of the invention include any animal particularly a mammal e.g. non human primates e.g. monkey chimpanzee gorilla and the like rodents e.g. rats mice gerbils hamsters ferrets and the like lagomorphs swine e.g. pig miniature pig equine canine feline and the like. Large animals are of particular interest.

The CFTR inhibitors can also be contacted with isolated human tissue to create ex vivo models of disease. Such tissue is contacted with an amount of a CFTR inhibitor effective to decrease CFTR activity in the tissue which may be for as little as 15 minutes or as much as two hours or more. Human tissues of interest include without limitation lung including trachea and airways liver pancreas testis and the like. Physiological biochemical genomic or other studies can be carried out on the inhibitor treated tissue to identify novel therapeutic target molecules that are important in the pathophysiology of a disease. For example isolated tissue from humans without CF can be exposed to inhibitor sufficient to induce the CF phenotype and such studies can be carried out to identify novel therapeutic target molecules that are important in the pathophysiology of CF.

Compounds of the invention may be prepared according to methods known to one skilled in the art or by the methods similar to those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 326 770 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 380 186 all of which are incorporated in full by reference herein or by methods similar to the method described below.

It is understood that in the following description combinations of substituents and or variables of the depicted formulae are permissible only if such contributions result in stable compounds.

It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in the process described below the functional groups of intermediate compounds may need to be protected by suitable protecting groups. Such functional groups include hydroxy amino mercapto and carboxylic acid. Suitable protecting groups for hydroxy include trialkylsilyl or diarylalkylsilyl e.g. t butyldimethylsilyl t butyldiphenylsilyl or trimethylsilyl tetrahydropyranyl benzyl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for amino amidino and guanidino include t butoxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for mercapto include C O R where R is alkyl aryl or aralkyl p methoxybenzyl trityl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for carboxylic acid include alkyl aryl or aralkyl esters.

Protecting groups may be added or removed in accordance with standard techniques which are well known to those skilled in the art and as described herein.

The use of protecting groups is described in detail in Theodora W. Greene Peter G. M. Wuts 1999 3rd Ed. Wiley Interscience. The protecting group may also be a polymer resin such as a Wang resin or a 2 chlorotrityl chloride resin.

It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art although such protected derivatives of compounds of formula I as described above e.g. in the Overview and in Thiazolidinone Compounds and Derivatives may not possess pharmacological activity as such they may be administered to a mammal and thereafter metabolized in the body to form compounds of the invention which are pharmacologically active. Such derivatives may therefore be described as prodrugs . All prodrugs of compounds of formula I are included within the scope of the invention.

The following Reaction Schemes illustrate methods to make compounds of the invention. It is understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to make the compounds of the invention by similar methods or by methods known to one skilled in the art. In general starting components may be obtained from sources such as Aldrich or synthesized according to sources known to those of ordinary skill in the art see e.g. Smith and March 5th edition Wiley Interscience New York . Moreover the various substituted groups e.g. X X X Y Yand Y etc. of the compounds of the invention may be attached to the starting components intermediate components and or final products according to methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In the following Reaction Schemes R represents an alkyl or aralkyl group and W represents a halogen atom such as Cl Br or I.

The following Reaction Scheme 1 is directed to the preparation of compounds of formula 1 which are compounds of the invention as described above e.g. in the Overview and in Thiazolidinone Compounds and Derivatives where Ais absent and A A A X X X Y Y and Yare as described above e.g. in the Overview and in Thiazolidinone Compounds and Derivatives .

In general compounds of formula 1 are prepared by first treating a compound of formula a with 1 equivalent of a base such as NaOH at ambient temperature. Compound of formula b dissolved in an appropriate solvent such as THF is then added to the reaction mixture. The resulting reaction mixture is then stirred for a period of time of between about 1 hour to about 24 hours. An acid such as HCl is then added to the reaction mixture. The resulting reaction mixture is then stirred for a period of time of between about 1 hour to about 24 hours. The compound of formula c is then isolated from the reaction mixture by standard isolation and purification techniques. The compound of formula c is then treated with a compound of formula d under standard Knoevenagel condensation conditions to yield the desired product of formula 1 .

Alternatively compounds of formula 1 can be prepared according to the following Reaction Scheme 2 wherein A A A Y Y and Yare as described above e.g. in the Overview and in Thiazolidinone Compounds and Derivatives and W is halo 

In general the compounds of formula 1 can be prepared by first treating a compound of formula e with a compound of formula f under standard Knoevenagel condensation conditions such as under reflux in the presence of catalytic amount of piperidine in glacial acetic acid an alcohol or another appropriate solvent. The compound of formula g is then isolated from the reaction mixture by standard isolation and purification techniques. The compound of formula g is then treated with a compound of formula h under standard Ullmann condensation conditions such as in the presence of Cu or CuO or CuO at elevated temperatures to yield the desired product of formula 1 .

Alternatively compounds of formula 1 can be prepared according to the following Reaction Scheme 3 wherein A A A Y Y and Yare as described above e.g. in the Overview and in Thiazolidinone Compounds and Derivatives and W is halo.

In this reaction scheme the first step is the Ullmann condensation between the compound of formula e and the compound of formula h to produce the compound of formula c which then undergoes Knoevenagel condensation with a compound of formula d to yield the desired product of formula 1 .

The starting compound of formula e can be purchased from different chemical suppliers or synthesized according to methods known to one skilled in the art or by the methods similar to those disclosed in F. C. Brown et. al. 78 384 388 1956 R. E. Strube CV 4 6 K. S. Markley and E. E. Reid 52 2137 2141 all of which are incorporated in full by reference herein .

In a similar manner as described above synthesis of 3 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 4 carboxyphenyl methylene 2 thioxo 4 thiazolidinone referred to herein as CFTR 172 see and analogs with different positions of the trifluoromethyl and carboxy substituents see e.g. was accomplished by Knoevenagel condensation of 2 thioxo 3 a trifluoromethyl 4 phenyl 4 thiazolidinone a 2 3 or 4 with b carboxybenzaldehyde b 2 3 or 4 in the presence of piperidine. The precipitate was filtered washed with ethanol dried and recrystallized 2 3 times from ethanol to give bright yellow crystals 70 85 yields . Structures were confirmed by H NMR. Purity was 99 as judged by thin layer chromatography and HPLC.

The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention nor are they intended to represent that the experiments below are all or the only experiments performed. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used e.g. amounts temperature etc. but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise parts are parts by weight molecular weight is weight average molecular weight temperature is in degrees Centigrade and pressure is at or near atmospheric.

The synthesis of compounds of the invention are exemplified with but not limited to the following examples.

A. To a stirred solution of 3 trifluoromethylaniline 1.6 g 10 mmol and triethylamine 1 g 10 mmol in ethyl acetate 10 mL was added dropwise carbon disulfide 0.8 g 10 mmol during a 30 minute period. A mild exothermic reaction which began when the addition was about half complete was easily controlled by intermittent use of ice bath. After stirring overnight the thick yellow slurry was filtered and the precipitate was washed with 50 mL of diethyl ether and air dried to give 3 g 89 of a pale yellow dithiocarbamate solid m.p. 92 95 C. dec. .

B. Sodium chloroacetate prepared from chloroacetic acid 0.064 g 0.46 mmol in 0.6 mL of NaHCOsolution pH 8 9 was stirred and cooled to 5 10 C. and the dithiocarbamate 0.3 g 0.9 mmol was added over a period of ten minutes. Stirring was continued while the flask was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 2 hours of stirring the solution was cooled to 10 C. and acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid and the reaction mixture was heated to 90 95 C. for 30 minutes. The resulting precipitate was filtered washed with water and recrystallised from ethanol to give 0.103 g of 2 thioxo 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 thiazolidinone as shiny crystals in 83 yield m.p. 177 178 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 4.18 s 2H CH 7.40 d 1H phenyl J 8.0 Hz 7.48 s 1H phenyl 7.64 t 1H phenyl J 8.0 Hz 7.72 d 1H phenyl J 7.6 Hz ppm.

C. A mixture of 2 thioxo 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 thiazolidinone obtained above 0.1 g 0.36 mmol and 4 carboxybenzaldehyde 0.054 g 0.36 mmol in absolute alcohol 1 mL and piperidine 1 drop was stirred at reflux for 30 minutes. The yellow precipitate was filtered washed with ethanol dried and recrystallised from ethanol to yield 0.108 g 73 of the title compound as yellow crystalline solid m.p. 180 182 C. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 7.78 d 2H carboxyphenyl J 8.2 Hz 7.80 8.00 m 5H trifluoromethylphenyl and CH 8.07 d 2H carboxyphenyl J 8.31 Hz 13.20 s 1H COOH DO exchangeable ppm.

Fischer rat thyroid FRT cells coexpressing human wildtype CFTR and the halide indicator YFP H148Q were generated as described previously Galietta et al. 2001 276 19723 19728 . Cells were plated in 96 well black walled microplates Corning Costar at a density of 20 000 cells per well in Coon s modified F12 medium supplemented with 5 fetal calf serum 2 mM L glutamine 100 U mL penicillin and 100 g mL streptomycin. Assays were done at 48 hours after plating at which time cells were just confluent 40 000 cells per well .

Initial screening was done using a diverse collection of 50 000 drug like compounds from ChemBridge San Diego Calif. obtained as 10 mM stock solutions in DMSO and diluted to 100 mM in 96 well microplates. Structure activity analysis was done on analogs purchased from ChemBridge and ChemDiv San Diego Calif. .

Wildtype and cystic fibrosis F508 homozygous mutant mice were bred by the CF Animal Core facility at University of California San Francisco UCSF . Animal protocols were approved by the UCSF Committee on Animal Research.

T84 and Caco 2 cells were obtained from the UCSF cell culture facility. T84 cells were cultured in a 1 1 mixture of DMEM and Hams F12 supplemented with 5 fetal calf serum 100 U mL penicillin 100 g mL streptomycin and plated on Snapwell inserts Corning Costar for growth in a humidified 5 O 95 CO atmosphere at 37 C. Cells were used at 10 14 days after plating. Caco 2 cells were cultured in DMEM containing 10 fetal calf serum 1 nonessential amino acids 100 U mL penicillin and 100 g mL streptomycin and cultured on Snapwell inserts. Cells were used at 21 24 days after plating. Wildtype mice in a CD1 genetic background were bred as described previously. Male Wistar rats 200 250 g were purchased from Jackson Laboratories. Animal protocols were approved by the UCSF Committee on Animal Research. Fragments of human colon were obtained freshly at the time of excision surgery and transported in ice cold saline for use within 1 hour after excision.

Forskolin 8 bromo cGMP amiloride cholera toxin and STa toxin were purchased from Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. . CFTR 16 was from ChemBridge San Diego Calif. .

Assays were done using a customized screening system Beckman consisting of a 3 meter robotic arm COincubator plate washer liquid handling workstation bar code reader delidding station and two FluoStar fluorescence plate readers BMG Labtechnologies Offenburg Germany each equipped with two syringe pumps and HQ500 20X 500 10 nm excitation and HQ535 30M 535 15 nm emission filters Chroma . The robotic system was integrated using SAMI version 3.3 software Beckman modified for two plate readers. Custom software was written in VBA Visual Basic for Applications to compute baseline subtracted normalized fluorescence slopes giving halide influx rates from stored data files.

The assay was set up by loading the incubator 37 C. 90 humidity 5 CO with 40 60 96 well plates containing the FRT cells and loading a carousel with 96 well plates containing test compounds and disposable plastic pipette tips. To initiate the assay each well of a 96 well plate was washed 3 times in PBS 300 L wash leaving 50 L PBS. Ten L of a CFTR activating cocktail 5 M forskolin 100 M IBMX 25 M apigenin in PBS was added and after 5 min one test compound 0.5 L of 1 mM DMSO solution was added to each well to give 10 M final concentration. After 10 min 96 well plates were transferred to a plate reader for fluorescence assay. Each well was assayed individually for CFTR mediated I transport by recording fluorescence continuously 200 ms per point for 2 s baseline and then for 12 s after rapid 

 cAMP and phosphatase assays were performed as reported previously Galietta et al. 2001 276 19723 19728 . Cell toxicity was assessed by the dihydrorhodamine method at 24 hours after cell incubation with 0 1000 M inhibitor. Animal toxicity was assessed by measurement of serum chemistries and hematology UCSF Clinical Laboratory in mice at 5 days after daily intraperitoneal injections with 0 100 g kg inhibitor.

MDR 1 activity was evaluated by measuring H vincristine accumulation in an immortalized human tracheal cell line 9HTEo Dx in which the endogenous expression of MDR 1 was upregulated by selection in increasing concentrations of doxorubicin Rasola et al. 1994 269 1432 1436 . Cells were seeded in 24 well microplates 200 000 cells well . After 48 hours cells were washed with a solution containing in mM 130 NaCl 2 KCl 1 KHPO 2 CaCl 2 MgCl 10 Na Hepes pH 7.3 and 10 glucose and incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. with 200 L of the same solution containing H vincristine 0.7 M 1 Ci mL . Cells were then washed three times with ice cold solution and lysed in 0.25 M NaOH. Vincristine content was determined by scintillation counting.

Snapwell inserts containing CFTR expressing FRT cells or human bronchial epithelial cells were mounted in an Ussing chamber system. For FRT cells the hemichambers were filled with 5 mL of 75 mM NaCl and 75 mM Na gluconate apical and 150 mM NaCl basolateral pH 7.3 and the basolateral membrane was permeabilized with 250 g mL amphotericin B Galietta et al. 2001 276 19723 19728 . For bronchial epithelial cells and T84 cells both hemichambers contained a Krebs bicarbonate solution. Hemichambers were continuously bubbled with air FRT cells or 5 COin air bronchial and T84 cells and maintained at 37 C. Short circuit current was recorded continuously using a DVC 1000 voltage clamp World Precision Instruments Sarasota Fla. using Ag AgCl electrodes and 1 M KCl agar bridges.

Membrane current was measured in a whole cell configuration. For recordings of Cl channels the extracellular bath solution contained in mM 150 NaCl 1 CaCl 1 MgCl 10 glucose 10 mannitol 10 TES pH 7.4 and the intracellular pipette solution contained 120 CsCl 1 MgCl 10 TEA Cl 0.5 EGTA 1 Mg ATP 10 Hepes pH 7.3 . CFTR was activated by forskolin 5 M in the extracellular solution. The time course of membrane conductance was monitored in response to alternating voltage pulses of 100 and 80 mV. At defined times the protocol was interrupted to generate current voltage relationships voltage pulses from 100 to 100 mV in 20 mV increments . Volume sensitive Cl channels were activated by a hypotonic solution extracellular NaCl decreased to 120 NaCl 250 mosM kg . Calcium sensitive Cl channels were activated in human bronchial epithelial cells by addition of 100 M UTP to the extracellular solution.

Membrane potential was recorded in the pancreatic cell line INS 1 in which the extracellular bath solution contained in mM 130 NaCl 2 KCl 1 KHPO 2 CaCl 2 MgCl 10 Na Hepes pH 7.3 and 10 glucose. The pipette contained in mM 140 KCl 1 CaCl 2 mM MgCl 10 EGTA 0.5 MgATP 10 K Hepes pH 7.3 . After achieving the whole cell configuration the amplifier was switched to current clamp mode.

In the first of 3 assays fluid accumulation in ileal loops was measured Oi et al. 2002 99 3042 3046 Gorbach et al. 1971 50 881 889 . Mice age 8 10 weeks body weight 25 35 g in a CD1 genetic background or F508 homozygous mice were starved for 24 hrs and anaesthetized with intraperitoneal ketamine 40 mg kg and xylazine 8 mg kg . Body temperature was maintained during surgery at 36 38 C. using a heating pad. A small abdominal incision was made to expose the small intestine and closed ileal loops length 20 30 mm proximal to the cecum were isolated by sutures. Loops were injected with 100 L of PBS alone or PBS containing cholera toxin 1 g . In some experiments the inhibitor 150 g kg was administered by intraperitoneal injection. The abdominal incision was closed with suture and mice were allowed to recover from anesthesia. At 6 hours the mice were anesthetized intestinal loops were exteriorized and loop length and weight were measured after removal of mesentery and connective tissue.

In the sealed adult mouse model of secretory diarrhea mice were gavaged with cholera toxin 10 g in 0.1 mL of 7 bicarbonate buffer or buffer alone using a orogastric feeding needle Richardson et al 1986 54 522 528 Gabriel et al 1999 276 G58 G63 . Four experimental groups were control buffer alone cholera treated cholera treated inhibitor 150 g kg intraperitoneal 2 min before gavage and inhibitor alone. After six hours mice were euthanized and the small intestine from pylorus to cecum was exteriorized and stripped of associated mesenteric and connective tissues. The intestine was weighed then opened longitudinally to remove lumenal fluid by blotting and weighed again. Fluid accumulation was computed from the ratio in intestinal weight before and after lumenal fluid removal. For measurement of short circuit current strips of rat colon were isolated stripped of muscle layers by blunt dissection mounted in Ussing chambers area 0.7 cm and bathed in oxygenated bicarbonate Ringers solution containing 10 M indomethacin. Short circuit current was measured after inhibition of Na current by amiloride 10 M followed by stimulation by forskolin 20 M and subsequent inhibitor addition.

The intermediate 2 thioxo 3 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 4 thiazolidinone was synthesized by dropwise addition of carbon disulfide 0.8 g 10 mM to a stirred solution of 3 trifluoromethylaniline 1.6 g 10 mM and triethylamine 1 g 10 mM in ethyl acetate 10 mL over 30 minutes. An ice bath was used to prevent excessive heating during reaction. After stirring overnight the thick yellow slurry was filtered and the precipitate was washed with 50 mL of ether and air dried to give 3 g 89 yield of a pale yellow dithiocarbamate solid melting point 92 95 C. . Na Br C acetate prepared from Br C acetic acid Amersham 55 mCi mmol 64 mg 0.46 mM in 0.6 mL of water pH 8 9 using NaHCO was stirred and cooled to 5 10 C. and dithiocarbamate 0.3 g 0.9 mM was added over 10 minutes. Stirring was continued while the flask was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 2 hours the solution was cooled to 10 C. acidified with concentrated HCl and heated to 90 95 C. for 30 minutes. The resultant precipitate was filtered washed with water and recrystallized from ethanol to give 103 mg of the desired product as shiny crystals 83 yield m.p. 177 178 C. specific activity C 55 mCi mmol H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 4.18 s 2H CH 7.40 d 1H phenyl J 8.0 Hz 7.48 s 1H phenyl 7.64 t 1H phenyl J 8.0 Hz 7.72 d 1H phenyl J 7.6 Hz ppm.

For synthesis of 2 thioxo 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 5 4 carboxyphenylmethylene 4 thiazolidinone C 5 C CFTR 172 a mixture of 2 thioxo 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 thiazolidinone C 5 100 mg 0.36 mM and 4 carboxybenzaldehyde 54 mg 0.36 mM in absolute alcohol 1 mL and piperidine 1 drop was refluxed for 30 minutes. The yellow precipitate was filtered washed with ethanol dried and recrystallized from ethanol to give 108 mg 73 yield yellow crystals m.p. 180 182 C. specific activity C 54 mCi mmol H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 7.78 d 2H carboxyphenyl J 8.2 Hz 7.80 8.00 m 5H trifluoromethylphenyl and CH 8.07 d 2H carboxyphenyl J 8.31 Hz 13.20 s 1H COOH DO exchange ppm. Purification to 99.9 was accomplished by repeated recrystallization.

A bolus of C CFTR 172 50 Ci in PBS containing 3 DMSO titrated to pH 7.4 using NaOH was administered intravenously in rats over 1 min male Sprague Dawley rats 360 420 grams by an indwelling jugular catheter. Blood was collected from the catheter at specified times. C Radioactivity was determined in plasma isolated by centrifugation of whole blood at 14 000 g for 10 min by scintillation counting Scintiverse SE Fisher Calif. using a LS 6500 Multi Purpose Scintillation Counter Beckman . Pharmacokinetic analysis was done using WinNonLin software Pharsight . Rats were sacrificed by pentabarbital overdose after collection of the final blood tissue samples. All animal procedures were approved by the UCSF Committee on Animal Research.

A bolus of C CFTR 172 2 Ci was administered intravenously over 1 min in mice male CD1 mice 30 35 grams by tail vein. Mice were sacrificed at 5 30 120 and 240 min. Organs were removed weighed and homogenized in distilled water 10 50 vol . Radioactivity was determined by scintillation counting of the homogenates 25 50 L and expressed as total C radioactivity per organ or per gram tissue for skeletal muscle . At the same time blood urine and bile from gallbladder or duodenum were collected and C radioactivity was measured and expressed per mL of fluid. Elimination studies were done by collections of urine and stool over the first 24 hr after C CFTR 172 administration. Tissue distribution studies were also done on rats prepared as for pharmacokinetic studies.

Aliquots of bodily fluids plasma urine bile and liver homogenate were spotted onto Silica plates and resolved by thin layer chromatography using a ethyl acetate hexane methanol 1 1 0.1 solvent system which gave rf 0.5 for the original inhibitor. Autoradiography was performed using Hyperfilm Amersham with a Transcreen LE amplification system Kodak . C labeled CFTR 172 standards were included on all plates.

For cell studies Snapwell inserts containing T84 cell monolayers were mounted in an Ussing chamber system Navicyte Harvard Apparatus Holliston Mass. . Hemichambers were filled with Krebs bicarbonate solution containing in mM NaCl 120 NaHCO25 KHPO3.3 KHPO0.8 MgCl1.2 CaCl1.2 glucose 10 maintained at 37 C. and continuously bubbled with 5 CO 95 O. High K buffer contained in mM NaCl 65 KCl 67.5 KHPO1.5 CaCl1 MgCl0.5 HEPES 10 glucose 10. Low Cl buffer contained in mM Na gluconate 120 KHPO3.3 KHPO0.8 MgCl1.2 CaCl1.2 HEPES 10 glucose 10 maintained at 37 C. and continuously bubbled with air. For measurements in mouse colon mice were anaesthetized with intraperitoneal ketamine 40 mg kg and xylazine 8 mg kg . The ileum was removed washed with ice cold Krebs buffer opened along the mesenteric border and mounted in a micro Ussing chamber area 0.7 cm World Precision Instruments Sarasota Fla. . For measurements in human intestine colonic fragments were stripped of muscle layers by blunt dissection and mounted as described above. Hemichambers were filled with oxygenated Ringers bicarbonate solution containing 10 M indomethacin. Short circuit current was recorded using a DVC 1000 voltage clamp World Precision Instruments with Ag AgCl electrodes and 1 M KCl agar bridges. Agonists inhibitors were added to hemichambers as described below.

Mice age 8 10 weeks body weight 25 35 g in a CD1 genetic background were given access to water but not food for 24 hr. Mice were anaesthetized as described above and body temperature was maintained during surgery at 36 38 C. using a heating pad. A small abdominal incision was made to expose the small intestine and closed ileal loops length 20 30 mm proximal to the cecum were isolated by sutures. Loops were injected with 100 L of PBS alone or PBS containing cholera toxin 1 g . In some experiments CFTR 172 0 200 g was administered by intraperitoneal injection at specified times before or after cholera toxin injection. The abdominal incision was closed with suture and mice were allowed to recover from anesthesia. At 6 hours the mice were anesthetized intestinal loops were exteriorized and loop length and weight were measured after removal of mesentery and connective tissue.

For measurement of enterotoxin induced fluid secretion in a rat closed loop model male Wistar rats body weight 200 250 g were anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium 45 mg kg . Loops 40 60 mm were isolated and injected with 300 L PBS alone or PBS containing cholera toxin 10 g or STa toxin 0.1 g . In some experiments CFTR 172 200 g was given by intraperitoneal injection after cholera toxin or STa toxin administration. Loop length and weight were measured at 3 hr STa or 6 hr cholera toxin .

In studies of orally administered CFTR 172 an open loop mouse model was used in which mice were gavaged with 7 bicarbonate buffer or cholera toxin 1 g in 7 bicarbonate buffer alone and with CFTR 172 200 g in vitamin E TPGS see below using an orogastric feeding needle. After 6 hours the small intestine from pylorus to cecum was exteriorized and stripped of associated mesenteric and connective tissue. The intestine was weighed opened longitudinally to remove lumenal fluid and reweighed to quantify fluid accumulation.

Caco 2 cells were cultured on porous inserts to give monolayer resistances of 400 600 cm. For transport studies culture medium was replaced with an equal volume of Hank s buffered salt solution HBSS containing 15 mM glucose and 25 mM HEPES pH 7.3 . After 1 hr CFTR 172 25 M was added to the upper chamber and plates were gently rocked at 37 C. At specified times 50 L of solution from the lower receiving chamber were removed for measurement of CFTR 172 concentration by UV absorbance 385 nm . Apparent permeability Papp was calculated from Papp dC dT Vr AC0 where dC dT is the rate of increase in CFTR 172 concentration in the receiver chamber Vr is the volume of the receiver chamber A is monolayer surface area and C0 is initial CFTR 172 concentration in the donor chamber.

Mice were anesthetized briefly using halothane and gavaged orally with C labeled CFTR 172 12 Ci solubilized with vitamin E TPGS d tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate 0.5 w v CFTR 172 in 10 w v suspension of TPGS in water . For comparison other mice were given C CFTR 172 2 Ci intravenously by tail vein infusion. Blood was collected from the tail vein at specified times for measurement of plasma C radioactivity. At 6 hours mice were killed by pentobarbital overdose and organs were removed for measurement of radioactivity in homogenates.

The primary screening technique used to identify the compounds of the invention was designed to identify inhibitors of CFTR Cl conductance by direct CFTR inhibitor interaction. CFTR was pre stimulated in CFTR expressing FRT cells by an activating cocktail containing forskolin IBMX and apigenin as shown schematically in . The activation of CFTR by multiple mechanisms cAMP elevation phosphodiesterase inhibition and direct CFTR binding allowed identification of inhibitors that blocked the CFTR Cl transporting pathway directly rather than more proximal step s in a signaling pathway. The FRT cells co expressed a yellow fluorescent protein based Cl I sensor that provided a quantitative fluorescence read out of inhibition potency See e.g. Jayaraman et al. 2000 275 6047 6050 Galietta et al. 2001 281 C1734 C1742 . After CFTR pre stimulation and compound addition cells were subjected to an inwardly directed I gradient to drive I influx and produce decreasing fluorescence. Each assay consisted of recording baseline fluorescence for 2 seconds followed by 12 seconds of continuous recording of fluorescence after rapid addition of the I containing solution. Compounds were tested separately at 10 M concentration in a 96 well format utilizing a fully automated high throughput screening apparatus see Example 2 below .

To examine the effect of ring position of the trifluoromethyl and carboxyl substituents 8 analogs of CFTR 172 were synthesized in which the substituents were moved to each unique position on rings 1 trifluoromethyl and 2 carboxy . Compared to CFTR 172 potency 1.0 the relative inhibitory potencies of the 3 a trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 b carboxyphenyl methylene 2 thioxo 4 thiazolidinone analogs were 0.69 a 2 b 2 0.70 2 3 0.66 2 4 0.74 3 2 0.90 3 3 0.67 4 2 0.64 4 3 and 0.56 4 4 .

The level of CFTR inhibition for specific dosages of the subject thiazolidinone compounds was determined using the fluorescence assay shown in and described above. shows dose inhibition data for CFTR 172 as relative YFP fluorescence versus time. Significant CFTR inhibition was seen at 0.3 0.6 M concentrations of this thiazolidinone compound. shows that inhibition by CFTR 172 shown graphically as relative transport rate versus time after addition or washout was complete in 10 min t4 min and was reversed after washout with t 5 min inset . The relative transport rates illustrated in show that CFTR 172 effectively inhibited CFTR activation by multiple types of agonists that were not included in the activating cocktail used for initial screening. These agonists included genistein CPT cAMP CPX 8 MPO and the potent benzoflavone CFTR activator UC 029 2 4 pyridinium benzo h 4H chromen 4 one bisulfate and the benzimidazolone CFTR activator UC 853 see Galietta et al. 2001 276 19723 19728 .

Electrophysiology experiments were also carried out to establish the inhibitory potency and specificity of CFTR 172. shows the rapid dose dependent inhibition of short circuit current in CFTR expressing FRT cells with CFTR 172 added to the solution bathing the apical cell surface. shows the average dose inhibition relationships of CFTR 172 K 300 nM Hill coefficient 1 and glibenclamide K 200 M tested under identical conditions.

Similar inhibitory potencies for this thiazolidinone were found in cells that natively express wildtype CFTR including T84 cells and primary cultures of human bronchial epithelial cells as well as in transfected FRT cells expressing G551D CFTR and F508 CFTR after low temperature correction . For studies in bronchial cells the Na channel was blocked with amiloride so that baseline current is largely CFTR dependent. After maximal CFTR activation by a CPT cAMP application of CFTR 172 from the apical side inhibited short circuit current strongly left . CFTR 172 also inhibited short circuit current when added from the basolateral side right .

Whole cell membrane currents were measured in CFTR expressing FRT cells as shown in . Stimulation by 5 M forskolin produced a membrane current of 381 47 pA pF n 4 at 100 mV total membrane capacitance 21 3 pF . The current voltage relationship was linear as expected for a pure CFTR current . Extracellular perfusion with 2 M CFTR 172 produced a rapid reduction in current at all membrane potentials suggesting voltage independent CFTR inhibition. The lack of voltage dependence of channel block was confirmed using a lower concentration of CFTR 172 0.2 M to obtain 50 inhibition .

The specificity of CFTR 172 for inhibition of CFTR was also examined. Two non CFTR Cl channels were studied. CFTR 172 at 5 M concentration did not inhibit Ca activated Cl secretion produced by addition of UTP 100 M to the apical bathing solution in polarized human bronchial epithelial cells . Maximal UTP dependent short circuit currents were 9.9 0.5 A cmand 10.0 0.2 A cmin the absence and presence of CFTR 172 respectively SE n 4 . CFTR 172 at 5 M also did not block volume activated Cl currents elicited in FRT cells by extracellular perfusion with a 250 mosM kg hypotonic solution .

The activity of a CFTR homolog the ATP binding cassette transporter MDR 1 multi drug resistance protein 1 was measured in 9HTEo Dx which overexpress MDR 1 Rasola et al. 1994 269 1432 1436 . Vincristine accumulation which is inversely related to active drug extrusion by MDR 1 was strongly increased by the MDR 1 inhibitor verapamil 100 M . CFTR 172 5 M did not affect vincristine accumulation and thus did not inhibit MDR 1.

Another homolog of CFTR is the sulphonylurea receptor SUR which regulates the activity of ATP sensitive K channels K ATP channel Aguilar Bryan and Bryan 1999 20 101 135 . SUR1 is expressed in pancreatic cells where it controls membrane potential and insulin release. Sulphonylureas like glibenclamide cause insulin release and a hypoglycemic response by blocking K ATP channels and membrane depolarization. To determine whether CFTR 172 also blocks K ATP channels membrane potential in a rat pancreatic cell line INS 1 was measured . In contrast to large membrane depolarization caused by glibenclamide CFTR 172 2 and 5 M did not depolarize membrane potential. CFTR 172 at 5 M caused a small hyperpolarization that was much less than that caused by the K ATP channel activator diazoxide 100 M . Additional studies indicated that CFTR 172 at 5 M did not block a water channel AQP1 urea transporter UT B Na H exchanger NHE3 and Cl HCO exchanger AE1 .

Further analysis showed that 5 M CFTR 172 did not affect cellular cAMP production or phosphatase activity. In FRT cells basal cAMP content was 225 22 fmol well which increased at 30 min after stimulation by 20 M forskolin to 1290 190 fmol well no inhibitor and 1140 50 CFTR 172 n 3 . As judged using the dihydrorhodamine assay CFTR 172 was non toxic to FRT cells after 24 hours at concentrations up to 100 M. In mice intraperitoneal injection of 1000 g kg CFTR 172 daily for 7 days did not cause overt toxicity. Food and water intake were not diminished and serum electrolyte concentrations glucose liver function indices serum creatinine amylase and hematocrit were not changed. In addition a single very large systemic dose of CFTR 172 10 mg kg did not cause overt toxicity.

The efficacy of CFTR 172 was tested in vivo using two assays of cholera toxin induced intestinal fluid secretion and in isolated intestine by short circuit analysis. In the first assay a series of closed loops of small intestine were created in vivo and the lumens of alternate loops were injected with small volumes of saline or saline containing cholera toxin. Luminal fluid accumulation was determined after 6 hours. As seen visually in there was marked fluid accumulation and distention in cholera toxin treated loops whereas adjacent control saline loops remained empty. A single administration of CFTR 172 150 g kg intraperitoneal prior to cholera toxin infusion effectively prevented fluid accumulation in the toxin treated intestinal loops.

Data from a series of these experiments is summarized graphically in . CFTR 172 significantly reduced fluid secretion to that in saline control loops where an inactive thiazolidinone analog did not inhibit fluid secretion. As suggested from previous data Gabriel et al. 1994 266 107 109 cholera toxin treated loops of intestine from homozygous F508 CFTR mice also remained empty indicating the involvement of CFTR in intestinal fluid secretion. In the second assay intestinal fluid secretion was induced by oral administration of cholera toxin 10 g and CFTR 172 was administered systemically. After six hours there was marked accumulation of fluid as measured by weighing the entire small intestine. CFTR 172 administration remarkably reduced intestinal fluid accumulation as seen visually and quantified by the ratio of intestinal weight before vs. after luminal fluid removal .

Pharmacokinetic analysis in rats was done by serial measurements of serum C radioactivity after a single intravenous bolus infusion of C labeled CFTR 172. The total amount of inhibitor infused 400 g 1 mg kg was effective as an antidiarrheal in rats. shows that the kinetics of serum C radioactivity fitted well to a 2 compartment model with distribution volume 1.2 L and AUC area under curve of 3.8 g hr mL. The half lives were 0.14 hr redistribution and 10.3 hr elimination . No C labeled CFTR 4172 was detected in plasma at 72 hr after administration or in liver or kidney homogenates at 14 days after administration.

The tissue distribution of C labeled CFTR 172 was determined from the radioactivity of organ homogenates and bodily fluids following a single intravenous bolus infusion. panel A summarizes C distributions in the major organs at indicated times after CFTR 172 infusion in mice. C radioactivity was observed within 5 min primarily in liver and kidney decreasing over time. Little radioactivity was found in brain heart skeletal muscle or testes. At later times 30 240 min C radioactivity accumulated in the intestine. panel B shows a similar organ distribution of C radioactivity in rats measured at 60 min after intravenous bolus infusion with little radioactivity in brain heart and skeletal muscle. In some experiments rats were sacrificed at 10 days after infusion of C labeled CFTR 172 50 Ci .

To determine the mechanism of CFTR 172 accumulation in kidney liver and intestine C radioactivity was measured in serum urine and bile. Average urine radioactivity was 4.2 1.2 10cpm mL in mice over the first 2 hours after infusion. The ratios of C radioactivity in urine to blood were in the range 5 7 1 comparable to the ratio of urine to serum osmolarities of 5 1 1550 mOsm vs. 310 mOsm suggesting that CFTR 172 is cleared by the kidney by glomerular filtration without renal tubular absorption or secretion. A renal clearance mechanism for CFTR 172 clearance was supported by the approximately parallel kinetics of decreasing C radioactivity in serum urine and kidney tissue data not shown . The possibility of CFTR 172 accumulation in bile was investigated based on the observation of prompt accumulation of C radioactivity in liver and late accumulation in intestine. C radioactivity was 9 fold concentrated in bile vs. blood at 60 min after administration in mice. To determine whether the biliary CFTR 172 was excreted in the stool or returned to the circulation urine and stool collections were done on mice over the first 24 hr after radiolabeled inhibitor infusion. 93 3 of excreted radioactivity was found in the urine supporting a primary renal excretion mechanism with enterohepatic circulation.

To determine whether the C radioactivity measured in organs and fluids corresponds to intact or chemically modified CFTR 172 thin layer chromatography and autoradiography were done on specimens of urine serum and bile as well as supernatants of liver homogenates prepared by centrifugation. shows a single spot at rf 0.5 for the original CFTR 172 introduced in the bolus infusion. Autoradiography of fluid and organ homogenates showed single spots at identical rf indicating that chemical modification of CFTR 172 did not occur.

CFTR 172 is a weak acid with a pKa of 5.5 as determined by spectrophotometric pH titration. At physiological pH 1 of CFTR 172 is present as the unionized acid having low polarity and high membrane permeability. The rapid uptake of CFTR 172 in cell models described above suggests the feasibility of orally bioavailable preparations with the caveat that protection from the low gastric pH may be needed to avoid precipitation. The results from these pharmokinetic studies indicate that CFTR 172 is slowly eliminated in rodents by renal clearance without chemical modification and that CFTR 172 is concentrated in bile and accumulated in intestine. CFTR 172 did not significantly cross the blood brain barrier and little CFTR 172 accumulation was found in other vital organs including heart lung skeletal muscle and testes. The slow renal clearance intestinal accumulation and little blood brain barrier penetration of CFTR 172 are favorable for antidiarrheal applications.

The purpose of this example was to extend the observations above relating to the ability of a single intraperitoneal injection of CFTR 172 to inhibit cholera toxin stimulated fluid secretion in a closed intestinal loop model in mice. Specifically the goal of this example was to measure the dose response relation and the apparent halftime for persistence of the CFTR 172 inhibitory effect.

First the kinetics of intestinal loop fluid absorption and secretion were determined to characterize the mouse model. To study absorption loop fluid content was measured at specified times after injection of 200 L of PBS into individual loops. panel A shows rapid fluid absorption with 50 fluid remaining at 25 min. Intraperitoneal administration of CFTR 172 at a dose that strongly inhibited cholera toxin induced intestinal fluid secretion 20 g did not alter the rate of fluid absorption measured at 30 min compared to controls panel A inset . To study secretion intestinal loops were injected with cholera toxin 1 g in 0.1 mL PBS . panel B shows a slow onset of fluid secretion over 6 hr in agreement with previous studies in rodent models Gorbach et al. 1971 50 881 889 Oi et al. . USA 2002 99 3042 3046 . The rapid absorption of fluid in the intestine under normal conditions suggests that fluid accumulated in the intestinal lumen after active secretion may be absorbed rapidly if secretion is blocked predicting that CFTR inhibition could be effective in preventing fluid accumulation even when administered after cholera toxin.

To test the antidiarrheal efficacy of orally administered CFTR 172 CFTR 172 pharmacokinetics in mice was determined and CFTR 172 transport across Caco 2 monolayers was measured. Because CFTR 172 is a relatively nonpolar weak acid pKa 5.5 expected to precipitate in the stomach oral administration was done using two agents used commonly to solubilize drugs for oral administration Vitamin E TPGS and cyclodextrin. Measurements were done using C labeled CFTR 172.

An in vivo rat intestinal loop model was used to determine the efficacy of CFTR 172 in inhibiting cGMP and cAMP mediated fluid secretion as well as to test the efficacy of CFTR 172 in an alternative animal model. The guanylyl cyclase C receptor is expressed in rat enterocytes permitting STa toxin binding and cytoplasmic cGMP elevation Mann et al. 1997 239 463 466 . STa toxin has been found to cause fluid secretion in rat ileum after 3 hr Cohen et al 1989 257 G118 123 . CFTR 172 prevented cholera toxin induced fluid secretion in rat intestinal loops panel A at a dose 600 g kg that was effective in mice. For STa toxin induced fluid secretion intestinal loops were injected with STa toxin 0.1 g in 300 L PBS and loop weight measured after 3 hr. panel B shows 75 inhibition of intestinal fluid secretion by CFTR 172.

Short circuit current measurements were done in mouse and human intestinal epithelial sheets to assess CFTR 172 inhibition of transepithelial ion secretion. panel A shows CFTR 172 dose dependent inhibition of short circuit current in mouse ileum after stimulation by forskolin or STa toxin inset . Fifty percent inhibition was found at 5 M CFTR 172 for both cAMP and cGMP dependent chloride secretion. panel B shows similar CFTR 172 potency for inhibition of short circuit current in human colon.

An unexpected observation was that the apparent potency for CFTR 172 inhibition of intestinal short circuit current 2 5 M was substantially lower than that found in electrophysiological studies done on several cell lines including CFTR expressing FRT cells 0.2 0.5 M and Calu 3 cells 0.5 M . Several explanations for this difference were considered including cell type differences limited access of CFTR 172 to enterocytes in intact intestine membrane potential effects interior negative cell potential reducing intracellular CFTR 172 and ATP competition with CFTR 172.

Short circuit current measurements were done on T84 colonic epithelial cells to investigate this phenomenon. As shown in representative experiments in panel A 3 M CFTR 172 produced 50 inhibition of short circuit current in non permeabilized T84 cell monolayers after stimulation by the cAMP agonist forskolin left the cell permeable cGMP analog 8 Br cGMP middle or the direct activator of CFTR chloride conductance CFTR 16 identified by high throughput screening. To determine whether the relative reduction in CFTR 172 potency in T84 cells requires an intact cell short circuit current measurements were done after permeabilizing the cell basolateral membrane with amphotericin B and in the presence of a Cl gradient to generate measurable currents . panel B left shows substantially greater CFTR 172 potency for inhibition of short circuit current after permeabilization. Dose response data summarized in panel B middle indicate a reduction in apparent KI for CFTR 172 inhibition from 3 to 0.3 M after cell permeabilization. To test whether the reduced CFTR 172 potency in intact cells is due to the interior negative membrane potential reducing cytoplasmic vs. external CFTR 172 short circuit current measurements were done in T84 cells after depolarization by a high K basolateral bathing solution. panel C shows that increased CFTR 172 potency KI 0.3 M was restored in the depolarized cells indicating that cell membrane potential plays a role in CFTR 172 potency.

Based on the data above the thiazolidine compounds of the invention as exemplified by CFTR 172 can be expected to have antidiarrheal efficacy in enterotoxin induced secretory diarrheas caused by enterotoxigenic organisms such as and in cholera Traveller s and AIDS complex related diarrheas. CFTR inhibition may be useful in adjunct therapy of diarrheas caused by entero invasive bacterias such as and species however the mucosal damage produced by these organisms would not be reduced by CFTR inhibition. Similarly CFTR inhibition would not be predicted to correct the underlying pathology in inflammatory bowel disease but could reduce the volume of intestinal fluid secretions. Recent evidence suggests that fluid secretion caused by viral diarrheas such as rotavirus may involve other mechanisms such as Ca mediated Cl channels although the role of CFTR in fluid secretions remains unknown and hence testable by use of the compounds of the invention in suitable animal models.

In summary the thiazolidinone CFTR blocker CFTR 172 prevented cAMP and cGMP induced ion fluid secretion in rodent and human intestine without affecting intestinal fluid absorption. Its favorable pharmacological and activity profile support further development for antidiarrheal applications.

While the present invention has been described with reference to the specific embodiments thereof it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation material composition of matter process process step or steps to the objective spirit and scope of the present invention. All such modifications are intended to be within the scope of the claims appended hereto.

