---

title: Upper internals arrangement for a pressurized water reactor
abstract: In a pressurized water reactor with all of the in-core instrumentation gaining access to the core through the reactor head, each fuel assembly in which the instrumentation is introduced is aligned with an upper internals instrumentation guide-way. In the elevations above the upper internals upper support assembly, the instrumentation is protected and aligned by upper mounted instrumentation columns that are part of the instrumentation guide-way and extend from the upper support assembly towards the reactor head in hue with a corresponding head penetration. The upper mounted instrumentation columns are supported laterally at one end by an upper guide tube and at the other end by the upper support plate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08483347&OS=08483347&RS=08483347
owner: Westinghouse Electric Company LLC
number: 08483347
owner_city: Cranberry Township
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070410
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FC07 051D14636 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights to this invention.

This invention relates to water cooled nuclear reactors and more particularly to pressurized water reactors having in core instrumentation that enter the reactor vessel through penetrations from the top of the reactor vessel and are used to monitor the neutron activities and coolant temperature within the core fuel assemblies.

Many water cooled nuclear reactors utilize a core of vertically positioned fuel assemblies within a reactor vessel. To monitor the neutron activities and coolant temperature within the core fuel assemblies movable in core instrumentation such as movable neutron detectors conventionally enter the core from penetrations in the bottom of the vessel. In a few instances in the past leakage occurred at the penetrations at the bottom of the vessel which presented significant repair problems. Accordingly it would be desirable to have all the in core instrumentation access the core through penetrations from the top of the reactor vessel.

Thus it is therefore necessary to provide structure which can satisfactorily guide and protect the in core instrumentation entering from the top of the vessel and mitigate the potential for leakage.

To provide guidance and protection for the in core instrumentation the upper core plate which is just above the fuel assemblies upward to the penetrations through the vessel head the existing upper support columns are available in between the upper core plate and the upper support assembly. What is needed is a structure which provides guidance and protection for the in core instrumentation in the elevations between the upper support assembly and the penetrations in the vessel head.

This invention provides upper mounted instrumentation columns that provide guidance and protection for the in core instrumentation in between the upper support assembly and the penetrations in the reactor vessel head. The design of this invention provides a support system for the upper internals in core instrumentation that does not require the addition of a substantial framework within the upper internals. The invention design also minimizes additional disassembly requirements to remove and install the upper internals guide tubes in the event maintenance of the guide tubes is required. The main body of each of the upper mounted instrumentation columns is seated at its bottom end at the top of the upper support assembly. Each upper mounted instrumentation column is attached at its upper end to the top of an adjacent upper guide tube through a bracket for lateral support and alignment. Funnels of varying lengths depending on the elevations of the matching reactor vessel head penetrations extend from the top of the upper instrumentation columns to provide continued guidance and protection for the in core instrumentation between the head penetrations and the top of the upper instrumentation columns.

This structure is an economic and efficient way to provide guidance and protection for the in core instrumentation. It also provides the least hindrance to the replacement of guide tubes should such replacement be required.

Referring now to the drawings shows a simplified nuclear reactor primary system including a generally cylindrical reactor pressure vessel having a closure head enclosing a nuclear core . A liquid reactor coolant such as water is pumped into the vessel by pump through the core where heat energy is absorbed and is discharged to a heat exchanger typically referred to as a steam generator in which heat is transferred to a utilization circuit not shown such as a steam driven turbine generator. The reactor coolant is then returned to the pump completing the primary loop. Typically a plurality of the above described loops are connected to a single reactor vessel by reactor coolant piping .

A conventional reactor design is shown in more detail in . As previously mentioned though not shown in in a conventional pressurized water reactor design the movable in core neutron detectors enter the core from the bottom of the reactor through tubes that extend from penetrations in the vessel bottom to the lower core plate where they mate with the instrumentation thimbles within the fuel assemblies. Furthermore in such a traditional reactor design the thermocouples that measure core temperature enter the upper head through a single penetration and are distributed by a yoke or cable conduit such as is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 3 827 935 to the individual support columns and thereby to the various fuel assemblies.

In addition to the core comprised of a plurality of parallel vertical co extending fuel assemblies for purposes of this description the other vessel internal structures can be divided into the lower internals and the upper internals . In conventional designs the lower internals function to support align and guide core components and instrumentation as well as to direct coolant flow within the vessel. The upper internals restrain or provide a secondary restraint for the fuel assemblies only two of which are shown for simplicity and support and guide instrumentation and components such as control rods .

In the exemplary reactor shown in coolant enters the vessel through one or more inlet nozzles flows downward about a core barrel is turned 180 in a lower plenum passes upwardly through a lower core support plate upon which the assemblies are seated and through and about the assemblies. The coolant flow through the core and surrounding area is typically large in the order of 400 000 gallons per minute at a velocity of approximately 20 feet per second. The resulting pressure drop and frictional forces tend to cause the assemblies to rise which movement is restrained by the upper internals including a circular upper core plate . Coolant exiting the core flows along the underside of the upper core plate and upwardly through a plurality of perforations . The coolant then flows upwardly and radially to one or more outlet nozzles .

The upper internals can be supported from the vessel or vessel head and include an upper support assembly . Loads are transmitted between the upper support assembly sometimes referred to as the upper support plate and the upper core plate primarily by a plurality of support columns . A support column is aligned above a selected fuel assembly and perforation in the upper core plate .

Rectilinearly movable control rods typically including a drive shaft and a spider assembly of neutron poison rods are guided through the upper internals and into aligned fuel assemblies by control rod guide tubes . The guide tubes are fixedly joined to the upper support assembly and connected by a split pin force fit into the fop of the upper core plate . The pin configuration provides for ease of guide tube assembly and replacement if ever necessary and assures that core loads particularly under seismic or other high loading accident conditions are taken primarily by the support columns and not the guide tubes . This assists in retarding guide tube deformation under accident conditions which could detrimentally affect control rod insertion capability.

In accordance with this invention all of the instrumentation is routed through penetrations in the upper head . This structural modification is shown in the elevational view of the upper internals illustrated in . The reactor internals designed in accordance with this invention relocates the instrumentation penetrations from die bottom of the reactor vessel to the reactor vessel head . This upper mounted instrumentation utilizes forty two slender in core instrumentation assembly column extensions that extend above the upper support assembly towards the vessel head not shown in . These slender columns provide a guide way for the in core neutron detectors core exit thermocouple transducers that engage the penetrations through the reactor vessel head . The upper mounted instrumentation columns are respectively attached to forty two individual upper guide tubes which provide lateral support for the upper mounted instrumentation columns and alignment with the penetrations in the reactor vessel head as it is lowered into position. In addition the natural frequencies of this arrangement do not coincide with the coolant pump rotation frequencies thus avoiding setting up a resonant vibration that could damage the upper internal components. Thus in accordance with this invention forty two in core instruments exit the pressure boundary through individual penetrations in the reactor vessel head similar to the 69 control rod drive mechanism drive rods. The forty two in core instruments and 69 guide tubes must simultaneously enter the penetrations in the reactor vessel as it is lowered into position following refueling. The instrumentation columns are long slender tubes that require a lateral support to assure alignment with the reactor vessel head penetrations. The preferred design for the upper mounted instrumentation assembly is to attach each of the forty two in core instrumentation assembly column extensions to an adjacent rod cluster control assembly upper guide support tube which can best be seen in and . The upper guide tube is modified to include a bracket which attaches the in core instrumentation assembly column extensions to the upper guide tube near the top of the guide tube . The bottom end of the in core instrumentation assembly column extensions are screwed into the upper ends of the upper support columns .

The design of this invention has a number of benefits. It takes advantage of the rigid construction of the control rod guide tubes to secure the position of the top end of the instrumentation columns to insure alignment with the reactor vessel head penetrations as the head is lowered onto the vessel. Secondly it provides lateral support for the instrumentation columns to insure the vibrational responses i.e. the natural frequencies are sufficiently removed from the coolant pump excitation frequencies to prevent resonance. Thirdly this arrangement permits the removal of individual guide tubes should that be necessary. The design of this invention requires a bracket be welded to an upper surface of the upper control rod guide tube . The upper mounted instrumentation column extensions are connected to the peripheral end of the brackets through threaded joints. The bottom of the upper mounted instrumentation columns are threaded into the top end of the support columns . There is no wear concern at the bottom of the upper mounted instrumentation column extension at its interface with the support columns . Additionally the major pump frequencies are avoided.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly the particular embodiments disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to die scope of the invention which is to be given the full breadth of the appended claims and any and all equivalents thereof.

