---

title: Method and system for information retrieval using embedded links
abstract: Retrieving information from information sources using links. A set of information sources is preprocessed to extract content from text and existing links in the information sources according to some predetermined criteria. A set of search results is generated from amongst the preprocessed information sources in response to a received search query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244710&OS=08244710&RS=08244710
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08244710
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070806
---
Embodiments of the invention relate generally to retrieving information from an information source and more particularly to navigating and searching information in an information source which includes embedded links.

An information source may include for example electronic files electronic documents electronic mail and instant messenger and may contain various forms of information including text graphics audio video hyperlink and the like. A hyperlink is a user interface embedded in the information source that may guide a user to other related information sources on demand. Hypermedia a term derived from hypertext extends the notion of the hypertext to include links among any set of multimedia objects including sound motion video and virtual reality. It can also connote a higher level of user network interactivity than the interactivity already implicit in hypertext.

An information source for example an electronic document may be searched for relevant information desired by a user. There exist multiple utilities and applications involving a process of document searching in various software applications such as email client software instant messaging client software text processing software and the like.

Conventionally searching relevant information from an information source for example an electronic document is done by navigating through information content of the electronic document. During navigation a link embedded in the electronic document is processed as a normal content without considering the attributes of the link. Therefore the search result corresponding to the information content of the document is very limited. Moreover if the electronic document lacks a directly matching content for a given search query the search would give a null result.

The embedded links in the electronic document may contain relevant information such as a directly matching content for the given search query. The information content of an electronic document directed by the hypermedia link may be of significant relevance. Therefore neglecting this important source of relevant information may cause a user to miss significant information.

Therefore there exists a need for providing an improved searching mechanism for searching relevant information content of information sources and for providing improved quality search results.

Embodiments of the invention described herein provide a method system and computer program product for information retrieval in information centric operations using embedded links in the information sources.

An exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a method for information retrieval from information sources using embedded links in the information sources. The method preprocesses a set of information sources to extract content from text and existing links in the information sources according to some predetermined criteria and receives a search query and generates a set of search results from amongst the preprocessed information sources in response thereto.

An exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a system for information retrieval from information sources using embedded links in the information sources. The system includes a preprocessing module for preprocessing a set of information sources to extract content from text and existing links in the information sources according to some predetermined criteria and a search module for receiving a search query and generating a set of search results from amongst the preprocessed information sources in response thereto.

An exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a computer program product stored on a machine readable medium product comprising instructions operable to cause a programmable processor to perform operations to provide information retrieval from information sources using links. The computer program preprocesses a set of information sources to extract content from text and existing links in the information sources according to some predetermined criteria and receives a search query and generates a set of search results from amongst the preprocessed information sources in response thereto.

The above summary of the invention is not intended to describe each disclosed embodiment of the present invention. The figures and detailed description that follow provide additional aspects of the present invention.

Embodiments of the invention described herein provide a method system and computer program product for information retrieval in information centric operations using embedded links in the information sources.

Referring to at step a set of information sources are preprocessed to extract content from text and existing links in the information sources according to a predetermined criteria. The preprocessed information is stored in a database. An embodiment of the invention uses steps and to generate a set of search results from amongst the preprocessed information sources in response to a received search query. At step the search query is received and at least one link within a first information source is identified. A link includes embedded objects hypertext link and hypermedia link. For simplicity embodiments of the invention have been explained using a hypertext link as an example.

At step information is extracted from at least one second information source corresponding to the link in the first information source. The hypertext links in the first information source can be parsed using http protocol. The hypertext links in the first information content may be defined as primary links. Further all the information sources that the primary links refer to are retrieved and links from the retrieved documents are extracted. The information sources that the primary links refer to may be defined as secondary information sources. In addition to the text and links other information such as images audio and video can also be extracted depending on the context in one embodiment of the invention. The extracted information is considered to be a part of the first information source and used in similar manner. Additionally the secondary links can further be used in the same manner as primary links depending on the user requirements.

One embodiment of the invention provides means for controlling information extracted from information sources. In accordance with this embodiment of the invention primary links may be considered as links at level 1 and secondary links may be considered as the links at level 2. The links that may be extracted from the information embedded in the links at level 2 may be defined as the links at level 3 and levels of the links can be defined in a similar manner. The depth of a link may be defined as level of the link. In an embodiment a user may choose the maximum depth of the link to limit the information extracted. As the level of the link increases the amount of information extracted from the links of those levels can be decreased. For example if the user limits the maximum depth of the links to 2 then the information is extracted only from primary and secondary links. In default settings information is extracted from the primary link.

At step information extracted from the second information source is tagged to the first information source. Information extracted is ranked based on various criteria at step .

As will be known to one skilled in the art various search engines provide ranking to web pages on internet for improved quality of search results. Ranking of web pages exploits various methods including tag based ranking. A tag is a keyword or term associated with or assigned to an electronic document such as a web page. One example of various tags is a title tag assigned to the title of the electronic document.

One embodiment of the invention clusters one or more first information sources if the one or more first information sources are related to each other through one or more second information sources.

As will be apparent to one skilled in the art the second information source may have one or more tags associated with the one or more information sources extracted from one or more hypertext links. For example an information source may contain tags such as topic 1 and topic 2 . A rank is assigned to each tag of the information source. Information of each tag inherits the ranking of the tag. In this way all information content of the information source is assigned a rank for example on the scale of 1 to 10.

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention the information source including tags for example topic 1 and topic 2 tag may be assigned with a rank 4 and tag may be assigned with a rank 6. Therefore the information content of tag will inherit a rank 4 and the information content of tag will inherit a rank 6. In a similar way contents of the second information content are ranked.

In addition rank of a tag may be compared with a threshold value defined by the user. The threshold value may be customized on the requirement of the application and is set by the user. The threshold rank may also be tuned based on the depth of the hypertext link level. If the rank of a tag is higher than the set threshold value then the information content inside the tag is considered for further processing such as navigation of information retrieval. However on the other hand if the rank of the tag is lower than the set threshold value the information content inside the tag would be dropped off for the further processing. For example if the threshold value is set 5 then content inside tag will be selected for further processing and content inside tag will be dropped off from the further processing. Though the invention is described with reference to a tag based ranking system it may apparent to one skilled in the art that various other ranking methods may be used in a similar way to improve the search results.

At step a set of search results is displayed in response to an input where a user can control the search with a purpose to provide an improved search result. The search result may also be customized according to the requirement of a user. Here controlling the second information content may include limiting the maximum information extracted from each hypertext link in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Also in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the invention controlling the second information content includes limiting the maximum amount of information extracted from an information source. Further in accordance with another embodiment of the invention the maximum amount of information extracted from the second information content can be limited.

It will be appreciated that the exemplary illustration of the embodiments of the invention using hypertext links is provided by way of illustration and not by limitation. Embodiments of the invention can be used to extract any extractable embedded links in the information sources.

The preprocessing module performs step of preprocessing a set of information sources to extract content from text and existing links in the information sources according to some predetermined criteria. The input module performs the step of receiving a search query. The search module performs the step of identifying at least one link within a first information source. The extracting module performs step of extracting information from at least one second information source corresponding to the link in the first information source. The extracting module further includes a clustering module for clustering one or more first information sources of the set of first information sources if the one or more first information sources are related to each other through one or more second information sources. The ranking module performs step of ranking a set of information sources. The display module displays a set of search results

Among other advantages that will be apparent to those skilled in the art the information retrieval method of the invention may be used to obtain enhanced search results by retrieving the information sources which do not have the content directly matching the user supplied input. Further the information retrieval method may be used to cluster various information sources based on the content retrieved from the embedded links. Also the information retrieval method of an embodiment of the invention will enhance the browsing experience of a user.

Client includes information retrieval and rendering software for retrieving information from information provider and for rendering it in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Software is capable of implementing the method of invention as described above in detail. Software resides on a computer readable storage medium such as a magnetic storage or electronic randomly addressable memory programmed in accordance with steps in the aforementioned method embodiment of the invention.

Information provider includes the set of information sources in the form of a number of computer readable electronic documents files electronic mail client software and instant messenger client software. These information sources include information content for displaying or rendering to a user. Any of these information sources may potentially include embedded links pointed to other information sources . The client obtains and displays information sources which include embedded links.

A user requests for retrieving information from information provider through client . Client then activates software . Software retrieves information from the information provider . Retrieved information is then displayed to the user through the client .

The forgoing description sets forth numerous specific details to convey a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. Well known features are sometimes not described in detail in order to avoid obscuring the invention. Other variations and embodiments are possible in light of above teachings and it is thus intended that the scope of invention not be limited by this Detailed Description but only by the following Claims.

