---

title: Integrated vacuum absorption steam cycle gas separation
abstract: Methods and systems for separating a targeted gas from a gas stream emitted from a power plant. The gas stream is brought into contact with an absorption solution to preferentially absorb the targeted gas to be separated from the gas stream so that an absorbed gas is present within the absorption solution. This provides a gas-rich solution, which is introduced into a stripper. Low pressure exhaust steam from a low pressure steam turbine of the power plant is injected into the stripper with the gas-rich solution. The absorbed gas from the gas-rich solution is stripped in the stripper using the injected low pressure steam to provide a gas stream containing the targeted gas. The stripper is at or near vacuum. Water vapor in a gas stream from the stripper is condensed in a condenser operating at a pressure lower than the stripper to concentrate the targeted gas. Condensed water is separated from the concentrated targeted gas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08062408&OS=08062408&RS=08062408
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08062408
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070508
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 798 489 filed May 8 2006 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

This invention was made with Government assistance under Department of Energy Grant No. DE FC26 03NT41994. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

A field of the invention is gas treatment. A particular exemplary application of the invention is to flue gas treatment such as from flue gases of power plants. The invention is particularly applicable to treatment of gas streams.

Conventional coal firing plants use a steam cycle for power generation. Steam cycles are also used in newer power plants such as Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle IGCC power plants or Natural Gas Combined Cycle NGCC power plants. In a conventional steam cycle power plant only about one third of the heat energy contained in the fossil fuel is converted to electricity. This leaves more than half of the energy wasted in the water cooling towers. The water cooling tower transfers all of the waste heat in the low pressure exhaust steam 1.2 psia 107.8 F. to the environment through the vaporization of cooling water.

On the other hand COseparation from post combustion flue gas requires a large amount of heat in the form of steam . For example the current state of the art monoethanol amine MEA absorption process requires about 4 MJ of total heat for every kilogram of COcaptured. The steam that carries the heat has a pressure of around 60 psia. An absorption process that uses steam at a much lower pressure will have a significant advantage over the MEA based absorption process.

Conventional COseparation processes are energy intensive. The required energy is provided by steam in the power plant. The extraction of steam from the steam turbine reduces the electricity generation output . For the same amount of steam the higher the pressure and thus the temperature of the extracted steam is the higher the loss of the electricity will be. State of the art amine based absorption processes reduce electricity output by about 30 . For example the installation of an MEA based process in a steam cycle power plant will reduce its net electricity output from 500 MW to around 350 MW.

This energy cost and the associated financial cost inhibits the adoption of COseparation. With conventional MEA based absorption processes the cost of COseparation from post combustion flue gases takes more than 80 of the total COsequestration cost. High separation cost is the main reason for the delaying of COemission control. High COseparation cost is also hindering the acceptance of CObased Enhanced Oil Recovery EOR technology.

COemission control from power plants is not regulated at this time in the United States. There are several thousand power plants in the United States alone. If COemission control becomes mandatory an efficient and cost effective process will be required. If voluntary reductions of emissions are to be encouraged the cost of emission control must also be reduced. Currently the COemission level in the United States is about 20 above the level of 1990. A goal defined by the Kyoto protocol is that the United States needs to control around 20 of COemission which is about 12 Billion metric tons annually equivalent to 300 of 500 MW power plants. Acceptance and adoption of COseparation whether voluntary or by treaty or regulation requires an improved COseparation process.

According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention methods and systems are provided for separating a targeted gas from a gas stream emitted from a power plant. In a preferred method the gas stream is brought into contact with an absorption solution to preferentially absorb the targeted gas to be separated from the gas stream so that an absorbed gas is present within the absorption solution. This provides a gas rich solution which is introduced into a stripper.

Low pressure exhaust steam from a low pressure steam turbine of the power plant is injected into the stripper with the gas rich solution. The absorbed gas from the gas rich solution is stripped in the stripper using the injected low pressure steam to provide a gas stream containing the targeted gas. The stripper is at or near vacuum. Water vapor in a gas stream from the stripper is condensed in a condenser operating at a pressure lower than the stripper to concentrate the targeted gas. Condensed water is separated from the concentrated targeted gas.

An integrated COsequestration scheme includes three general steps COcapture transportation and permanent storage. A vast majority of the fossil fuel fired power plants which are the most likely point sources for COcapture generally produce diluted COgas streams. Capture of COfrom these sources is the most expensive step consuming more than 70 of the total sequestration cost. Reducing the COcapture cost would clearly have the most significant impact on the economic performance of a sequestration process.

Currently MEA based absorption processes are considered the best available option for post combustion COcapture. However the cost for COremoval from the post combustion flue gas of a pulverized coal PC power plant with a state of the art MEA process typically ranges from 40 to 60 per ton of COavoided. Such a high cost may be economically unacceptable. The electricity and heat used for the MEA process has been estimated to contribute to about half of the total cost and the O M cost and capital cost each are estimated to contribute about a quarter. Thus reducing the energy consumption of the COcapture process goes a large way to lowering the total cost.

J. Ciferno P. Dipietro and T. Tarka An Economic Scoping Study for COCapture Using Aqueous Ammonia US DOE NETL Report February 2005 showed that the large energy consumption of the MEA process reduces electricity output of a PC power plant by about 28 . Breakdowns of the electricity loss revealed that about 65 is due to the steam extracted from the power plant and used for heat in the stripper reboiler. COcompression prior to pipeline transportation accounted for another 25 of the loss and gas blowers and liquid pumps required in the MEA process are responsible for the remaining 10 .

Since the energy use for COcompression is unavoidable for an absorption process minimizing the reboiler heat duty and or lowering the quality of the extracted steam is the most viable way to improve the process. The reboiler heat duty in an absorption process mainly depends on the reaction heat heat of absorption and stripping heat. The sensible heat can be mostly recovered through heat exchange in the absorption desorption loop. For the MEA process the reaction and stripping heats are 825 and 800 Btu lb CO respectively. To reduce the heat duty of the reboiler an absorption solution with lower heat of reaction and stripping should be used.

One should note that heat energy should be described by both its quantity and quality. Heat energy at a higher temperature will contain more exergy exergy is a measure of the work potential at a certain state relative to the reference state defined as T 77 F. P 14.7 psia compared with heat at a lower temperature. If the heat energy consumed in the COabsorption process is of low quality i.e. its T and P are close to Tand P or even waste heat whose T and P are virtually Tand P then the total cost of the COcapture process will be low even though the amount of heat required is large. As a typical MEA process operates at 200 to 250 F. 1 2 atm for COstripping to maintain a required temperature difference which is the driving force for heat transfer the steam used in the reboiler of an MEA process needs to be extracted from the power plant steam cycle at a pressure of about 60 psia saturation temperature of 293 F. . The high temperature requirement increases the electricity loss due to steam extraction.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a uniquely integrated COcapture separation process for post combustion flue gases of power plants with steam cycle. An organically integrated system according to embodiments of the invention which integrates two processes can save large amounts of energy and significantly reduce the COseparation cost. In exemplary embodiments a vacuum absorption based separation process and the steam cycle are integrated efficiently so that the abundantly available low quality exhaust steam in the steam cycle can be used in the COseparation process. More particularly in embodiments of the invention low quality exhaust steam in the steam cycle is used for the stripping of COin a vacuum absorption based COseparation process. A lower stripping temperature can make possible the use of the heat of lower quality steam and the temperature in the stripper can be low at a low pressure e.g. vacuum.

Preferred systems and methods of the invention combine a vacuum absorption based separation process with a power plant steam cycle in a way to take advantage of the low pressure exhaust steam in the steam cycle. In preferred embodiments of the invention the electricity output of a 500 MW power plant that adopts the COseparation will be reduced to around 400 MW a savings of around MW compared to state of the art amine based COseparation processes. Preliminary economic analysis reveals that the COavoidance cost of this process will be around 33 tonne compared with 55 tonne for an MEA process.

Preferred embodiment systems and methods of the invention which integrate a vacuum absorption based COseparation process and a steam cycle in a power plant take advantage of the low pressure LP exhaust steam 1.2 to 14.7 psia abundantly available in the steam cycle This significantly reduces electricity loss due to the installation of the exemplary COseparation process. In embodiments of the invention electricity loss can be substantially minimized to its theoretical limit. Additionally compared to conventional systems some heat exchangers can be eliminated due to the fact that absorption and desorption processes are operated at about the same temperature.

Embodiments of the invention can substantially reduce the COseparation cost e.g. a reduction of half of the current state of the art MEA based absorption processes and a 40 cost reduction. Such significantly reduced electricity loss can encourage the adoption of a COseparation process.

Referring now to the drawings is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of the invention for absorption based COseparation processes. In the conventional COseparation processes the steam cycle and the COseparation process are isolated. By isolated it is meant that there is no or little materials exchange between the two systems. The steam cycle may be as nonlimiting examples a pulverized coal PC firing power plant an integrated gasification combined cycle power plant or a natural gas combined cycle power plant.

Within the steam cycle power generation unit for example air and coal such as pulverized coal PC are used to heat a boiler . Within the boiler feedwater is fed via a feed pump and heated to produce superheated steam . The superheated steam is fed to a high pressure HP turbine which in turn drives a generator . Exhaust steam from the HP turbine is reheated by the boiler and the reheated steam is fed to an intermediate pressure IP turbine also driving the generator . Exhaust steam from the IP turbine in turn is fed to a low pressure LP turbine which again drives the generator .

Additional exhaust steam from the HP IP and LP turbines is fed to multi heat exchangers . Some exhaust steam from the LP turbine enters a water condenser and the resulting water is fed into the multi heat exchangers using a condensate pump . Thus in the steam cycle the low pressure exhaust steam from the LP steam turbine can go to the condenser to be condensed. The condensed water is then recycled to generate steam in the boiler and the cycle goes on. The operating condition in the condenser is about 1.2 psia and 107.8 F. The lower the operating temperature thus the pressure since it is a saturated steam is the higher the thermal efficiency of the power generation system will be. However the lowest operating temperature is limited by the temperature of the cooling water which depends on water sources and the season as well. In the summer the operating temperature will be higher than in the winter.

Flue gas from the boiler enters an electrostatic precipitator ESP and then a flue gas desulfurization FGD via an induced fan . Cleaned flue gas containing carbon dioxide CO exits to the COseparation unit .

Within the COseparation unit the cleaned flue gas enters an absorber into which is fed a lean solution along with water makeup for absorbing acid gas such as CO. The absorber may include for example any suitable absorption device such as but not limited to an absorption tower that allows the flue gas stream to be brought into contact with the absorption solution to preferentially absorb the targeted gas e.g. CO to be separated from the main gas. After absorption the cleaned gas exits while the CO rich solution is introduced to a stripper for COstripping. A nonlimiting example of the stripper is a stripping tower.

In the conventional absorption process the stripping steam is generated in a reboiler at the bottom of the stripper. The steam extracted from the steam turbine provides the heat to vaporize the CO rich solution at one side of the reboiler and itself is condensed at the other side of the reboiler. Since the heat is supplied through the reboiler a temperature difference T between the steam side and solution side is always required. This T will impact the quality of the extracted steam. A T of 20 C. could lead to a 3 thermal efficiency loss. Further the huge reboiler requires a large capital investment.

In the COseparation unit the stripper may also be heated by a stripper reboiler which may be heated for example using part of the exhaust steam from the LP turbine . Preferably a heat exchanger is used to transfer heat from the LP exhaust steam to the absorption solution in the reboiler .

Further in exemplary embodiments of the present invention the low pressure exhaust steam from the lower pressure steam turbine will be injected directly into the COstripping tower to strip CObefore it goes to the water condenser . The direct introduction of the steam into the stripper will be able to reduce or eliminate the T and reduce the reboiler size. Generally the low pressure turbine from which the LP exhaust steam refers to the lowest energy steam available before it goes to the condenser provided that this steam is within an acceptable temperature range to operate within the stripper . In preferred embodiments the LP exhaust steam has a pressure between 1.2 and 14.7 psia with a temperature between 40 and 100 C. Most preferably the pressure is between 3 and 7 psia with a temperature between 60 and 85 C.

The exemplary gas stream from the top of the stripper is a mixture of COand steam with a CO steam mole ratio of about 1 3. When the mixture passes through a water condenser the water is condensed and the COis concentrated. The condenser operates at a pressure lower than that of the stripper . The condensed water will be recycled to the power generation system after necessary water treatment. Alternatively additional water treatment may be omitted. The concentrated COstream from the condenser is cooled and additional water is condensed. The condensed water is then separated in a gas liquid separator and the pure CO is finally drawn from the separator to a vacuum pump to be compressed to a desired pressure.

To allow the LP exhaust steam to be used to strip COwithin the stripper or the membrane module one or more significant features of the present invention may be employed. One such feature is that the stripper or the low pressure permeate side of the membrane module should operate at a pressure lower than the LP pressure. This allows for example the use of absorbents such as potassium carbonate or absorbents with similar properties and as will be explained below with respect to exemplary embodiments of the invention significantly reduces electricity requirements.

In preferred embodiments the stripper is a vacuum stripper operating at absolute pressures between 2 to 6 psia and corresponding temperatures between 50 to 70 C. For the membrane module preferably the permeate side operates under vacuum at pressure between 1.2 to 14.7 psia with a preferred pressure between 2 and 6 psia. The vacuum degree is a significant operating parameter in exemplary embodiments of the invention. Higher vacuum will allow the use of lower pressure steam and thus reduce electricity loss. However the high vacuum will lead also to a larger gas volume and result in larger stripper and vacuum pump sizes. shows an exemplary relationship between vacuum degree and electricity loss. In preferred embodiments of the present invention the condenser which automatically contains a vacuum is used as a free vacuum to reduce energy. In certain embodiments the condenser in the COseparation unit may be the same part or part of the condenser in the power plant . More particularly in preferred embodiments the vacuum of the stripper is partially obtained by condensing water vapor in the gas stream from the stripper.

As an additional consideration during operation of the absorber and the retentate side of the membrane module a solvent should be chosen that can absorb the targeted gas e.g. CO yet allow the COto be released under vacuum pressure or substantially vacuum pressure within the stripper or permeate side of the membrane module . For example different COabsorption solutions such as aqueous solutions of KCO NaCO KPO NaPO amino acid salts and other salts may be used as long as the absorption solution can adsorb the targeted gas e.g. CO at or near the flue gas conditions and as long as the absorbed COin the solutions can be stripped by the exhaust steam 1.2 10 psia from the low pressure steam turbine of the power generation unit . Since the steam extracted is saturated steam the mentioned pressure range corresponding to an operating temperature and pressure of the stripping tower should be comparable with the conditions of the exhaust steam between 40 to 80 C.

Further considerations for reducing energy include increasing the rate at which the COis absorbed in the solvent within the absorber . For example by requiring less contact time between the gas and the solution the size of the absorption column can be reduced. This may be done for example by adding a promoter to the solvent. Exemplary promoters include but are not limited to piperazine monoethanolamine and other organic base or inorganic base chemicals. Yet another consideration may be to reduce the energy needed to evaporate the water by adding another water soluble additive to the solution to reduce the vapor pressure of the solution. Exemplary additives include but are not limited to a water soluble chemical such as ethylene glycol or a salt such as NaCl or KSO.

The principle of the current invention can also be used for other gas separation applications. For example an absorption based oxygen separation process may use the exhaust steam for oxygen stripping where the gas stream is air or other oxygen containing gas mixture. In this case the absorption solution would be an oxygen absorbing solution that can absorb Ofrom air for example at a temperature close to the stripping temperature and can be stripped out at desirable stripper conditions such as those set out above.

The energy performance of an exemplary method according to the present invention referred to as a vacuum carbonate process for COcapture is evaluated applied to a 528 MW gross pulverized coal fired power plant. Steady state process simulations were performed to compare the mass and energy balance of the vacuum carbonate process and a conventional MEA process. The quality of steam heat required for the vacuum process and the associated electricity loss were significantly less than those for the MEA process.

The exemplary vacuum carbonate process according to an embodiment of the present invention employs a potassium carbonate KCO aqueous solution for COabsorption. Due to its weaker alkalinity the heat of absorption of the CO KCOsystem 262 Btu lb is much less than that of the CO MEA system 825 Btu lb . This reduction in the heat of absorption will reduce the reboiler heat duty. In addition while the absorption takes place at flue gas conditions similar to MEA processes the stripper is operated under vacuum. Because of the reduced pressure the CO rich solution boils at a lower temperature than that near the atmospheric pressure. This allows low quality steam to be used as a heat source and can result in reduced electricity loss. Both the low heat of absorption and desorption under vacuum conditions close to the exhaust steam condition make the vacuum carbonate process an attractive technology.

A process simulation software CHEMCAD version 5.3.7 developed by Chemstations Inc. was used to perform steady state process simulations for a reference PC power plant with an MEA process and with an exemplary vacuum carbonate process. shows the major operating conditions employed in these simulated processes. Other process parameters such as stripping temperature heat duty of the reboiler and steam extraction pressure were derived from process simulations.

The reference plant is a standard air blown PC power plant with a 528 MWe gross output. A typical Illinois coal was selected as the fuel. This coal has a moisture content of 6.08 an ash content of 8.90 and an HHV of 12 475 Btu lb. The coal was expressed in an equivalent molecular formula as CHONSon a dry ash free basis. The coal combustion in the boiler was modeled by the Gibbs free energy reactor module which determines the equilibrium state through the minimization of the Gibbs free energy of the reaction system. The expander module was used to simulate the steam turbines. The expansion was assumed as adiabatic expansion. The heat exchanger module was applied to heat exchanges in the boiler.

The COabsorption and stripping columns of the vacuum carbonate process were modeled by the rigorous multi stage vapor liquid equilibrium module SCDS . The vapor liquid equilibrium VLE calculation was selected in the SCDS module in this experiment. Fifteen stages were assumed for both the adsorption and the stripping columns. While the level of COremoval was fixed in absorption the liquid to gas ratio L G was adjustable by varying the stage equilibrium efficiency. The thermodynamic equilibrium constant values K values were calculated using the electrolyte Non Randomness Two Liquid NRTL model for the liquid phase and the ideal vapor model for the gas phase. The binary interaction parameters for the species in the HO CO KCOsolution were adopted from the CHEMCAD database. The enthalpy and entropy modeling was based on the latent heat method. The chemical reaction equilibrium constants and transport properties of the system both of which are temperature dependent were based on the regression equations incorporated in CHEMCAD.

The SCDS module was also used for modeling the MEA process. The procedure of the VLE calculation was similar to that for the vacuum carbonate process. The thermodynamic equilibrium K values were calculated by the amine K value model which is based on the Soave Redlich Kwong SRK equation of state. The chemical reaction equilibrium constants involved in the CO MEA aqueous solution were built into the CHEMCAD package. The enthalpies of chemical components were estimated by the amine enthalpy model which employs the SRK equation for the vapor enthalpy and the method of Crynes and Maddox for the liquid enthalpy.

The results of the energy and mass balance calculation are shown in . The plant operating at full capacity demanded a heat input of 4 499 MMBtu hr 180 ton hr as received coal . Complete combustion of coal was assumed in the simulation. The flue gas exited from the boiler at a flow rate of 5.04 million scfh composed of 14.6 vol of CO 75.7 of N 2.7 of O 6.8 water vapor 1 774 ppm SO 325 ppm NO and 5.2 g mfly ash. Most of the ash and SOwere then removed in the ESP and FGD devices. The clean gas leaving the FGD had a slightly increased volume 5.34 million scfh due to water evaporation in the FGD absorber. This gas stream contained 13.9 vol of CO 71.4 of N 2.5 of O 12.2 water vapor 34 ppm SO and 31 ppm NO. The flue gas was blown to provide the pressure drop of 2 psia required by the COcapture process downstream. However the associated electricity use was counted into the COprocess discussed below.

In the steam cycle the main steam 1000 F. 2415 psia was fed to the HP turbine. The cold steam exiting from the HP turbine 635 F. 604 psia was reheated to 1000 F. 545 psia and went to the IP and the LP turbines in series. The exhaust steam from the LP turbine 108 F. 1.2 psia was condensed in the water condenser and then fed back to the boiler after being preheated through seven consecutive heat exchangers. For simplicity and illustrative purposes the calculated results for these heat exchangers are combined in . Through the steam cycle a gross electricity output of 527.6 MW was generated of which 150.6 MW was from the HP turbine 124.7 MW was from the IP and 252.3 MW was from the LP. However due to the in plant electricity use by equipment such as pumps blowers and fans the net electricity output decreased to 492.9 MW. In accordance the net thermal efficiency i.e. the conversion of the total heat input to the net electricity output was 37.4 .

Since the heat contained in steam can vary in quality it is meaningful to see how such quality changes with the steam conditions. shows the change of steam properties and its capability of generating electricity when it passes through the IP and LP turbines. Here an adiabatic expansion process was assumed and the expander had an efficiency of 88.5 . During the expansion the capability of the steam to generate electricity decreases logarithmically with the decrease of steam pressure. At the IP inlet 1000 F. 545.4 psia about 32 of the total heat contained in the steam can be converted to electricity while little or no such heat can be converted to electricity at the outlet of the LP turbine 107.8 F. 1.2 psia . However according to embodiments of the present invention the large amount of heat contained in the exhaust steam may be used as an energy source for a COseparation process if appropriate stripping conditions in a COabsorption process are designed. Examples of such conditions are explained below with regard to the exemplary vacuum carbonate process.

The simulation of the MEA process was based on the flue gas leaving the wet FGD from the reference plant. Since the flue gas was cooled to 129 F. through the FGD absorber no further cooling was assumed before the flue gas entered the MEA process. Again the inlet flue gas contained 13.9 vol CO equivalent to a partial pressure of 2.3 psia.

The results of the process mass and energy balance calculation are shown in . 90 of the COin the flue gas was removed in the absorption column. The cleaned flue gas contained 74.1 vol N 21.7 water vapor 2.6 O and 1.6 CO. MEA regeneration from the rich solution required a heat duty of about 1 400 MMBtu hr in the stripper reboiler which is equivalent to 1 680 Btu lb COremoved. The gas stream from the stripper contained 58.7 vol COand 41.3 HO. The stream was cooled to 104 F. to condense water vapor and the COwas concentrated 95.7 vol COand 4.3 HO .

The steam used for MEA regeneration was extracted from the power plant. The steam condition was determined based on the required temperature for the stripper. As most of the heat from steam was stored as the latent heat that would be released during condensation the saturation temperature of the steam was kept above the solution temperature at the bottom of the stripping tower. In addition a temperature difference of 40 50 F. is typical for a stripper reboiler in the MEA process. As a result steam with a saturation temperature of about 290 F. was needed for the reboiler. The corresponding saturation pressure of the steam was about 60 psia . Since the steam extracted from the exit of the IP turbine was at 175 psia it was therefore expanded to 60 psia with a temperature of 475 F. This steam was further de superheated prior to entering the reboiler. Part of the electricity was recovered during the steam expansion. The steam was then used to heat the MEA solution and was condensed itself in the reboiler. The condensate from the reboiler was returned to the feed water system in the power plant steam cycle. In this simulation it was assumed that no steam was directly introduced to the stripper to strip CO.

The extraction of steam resulted in a large reduction in electricity generation. With more than half the total steam extracted from the exit of the IP turbine the gross electricity generation was reduced by 89.4 MW power recovery was considered . Another large electricity loss was caused by COcompression. The assumed four stage inter stage cooling compressor consumed a total of 35.4 MW of electricity to compress all the captured COfrom 25 to 1200 psia. In addition 10.0 MW was required for the flue gas blower to overcome a pressure drop of 2 psia in the MEA absorber and 1.8 MW for the MEA solution pumps. However the other auxiliary power use in the PC MEA plant was slightly less than the reference plant. This is because the steam extraction demanded by the MEA process reduced the loading of the exhaust steam condenser and cooling tower in the power plant which in turn reduced the electricity usage. The results of the electricity use loss are summarized in . Overall the net electricity output in the PC MEA power plant was reduced by 134 MW equivalent to a loss of 27.2 of the net electricity output from the reference PC plant.

The COand water partial pressures in the vapor over a 20 wt KCOsolution at equilibrium were calculated and are shown in . The predicted COpartial pressure agreed well with the experimental data at 158 and 194 F. reported by Tosh J. S. Field J. H. Benson H. E. Haynes W. P. Equilibrium Study of the System Potassium Carbonate Potassium Bicarbonate Carbon Dioxide and Water United States Bureau of Mines Report of Investments No. 5484 1959 while the predicted water vapor pressure only slightly deviated upward at high COloadings. The equilibrium data showed that at a temperature range of 104 194 F. the total pressure of COand water vapor changed from about 1 9 psia when COloading in the solution was kept at 1 wt at the exit of the stripper.

When the absorption was operated around the atmospheric pressure the COpartial pressure decreased from about 2.3 to 0.23 psia to achieve 90 removal efficiency. Assuming that the gas phase COand the absorption solution were at equilibrium at the bottom of the column then the loading of COin the COrich solution ranged from 2.6 wt to 4.2 wt in the temperature range of 194 104 F. . Compared with the MEA solution the KCOsolution has a lower COabsorption capacity and a higher liquid flow rate is needed to achieve the same COremoval.

As a nonlimiting example mass and heat balances for the vacuum process operated at 3 psia at the top of the stripper were listed in . The calculations were based on a 20 KCOsolution and 1 wt of COloading in the lean solution. The liquid to gas mass ratio L G used in this example was 1.2 times the minimum L G ratio L G . This ratio 7.92 roughly doubled that of the MEA process 3.86 . The results showed that about 1.6 million lb hr steam were consumed for COregeneration of which 62 was directly introduced into the stripper and 38 went to the reboiler. A temperature difference AT of 20 F. was adopted for the heat transfer in the reboiler since the lower heat duty 627 MMBtu hr of the vacuum process gives some flexibility for the reboiler. For comparison the heat duty of the MEA process is 1 400 MMBtu hr.

The gas stream from the top of the stripper was a mixture of 24.1 vol COand 75.9 vol water vapor. The majority of the water vapor in the stream was condensed in the water condenser and the condensate was mixed with the condensate from the reboiler and returned to the steam cycle of the power plant. After the primary condensation the gas stream included 91.7 vol COand 8.3 water vapor. The temperature of the mixed condensate was about 82 F. a temperature close to the exhaust steam condenser in the power plant. In an exemplary real not simulated process the condensate from the CO water vapor stream containing 388 ppm COin water may need treatment to meet the water quality requirement of the steam cycle. Exemplary treatments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In the above calculations the amounts of steam used in the stripper and reboiler were optimized to maintain a water balance in the absorption desorption loop. Introduction of excessive steam into the stripper would result in water accumulation in the process. However indirect heating through the reboiler would reduce the thermal efficiency of the steam usage since a temperature difference T is necessary. For example an increase of T to 40 F. could lead to an additional 4 MW electricity loss compared to the T of 20 F. used in this calculation. Due to this fact as much of the steam as possible was directly introduced to the stripper to reduce or eliminate the T and reduce the reboiler heat duty.

Based on the results shown in the thermal efficiencies of the power plants equipped with the vacuum carbonate process and the MEA process were compared. The results of the comparison are shown in . The electricity needed for compressing the COto 1200 psia was also included. The different electricity use for COcompression between the two processes was due to the different starting pressures 14.7 and 25 psia respectively . The steam extraction loss in the vacuum carbonate process was as low as about 38 MWe of which 52 was due to the stripping steam and 48 due to the reboiler steam. However in the vacuum carbonate process a significant amount of electricity was consumed by the vacuum pump to pressurize the COstream from the stripping pressure to one atmospheric pressure 14.7 psia . The exemplary vacuum carbonate process also required large pumps to circulate the absorption solution due to its higher L G ratio. The thermal efficiencies of the two processes were 29.6 and 27.2 respectively. Overall about 104 MWe in total was consumed for COcapture in the vacuum carbonate process compared to 137 MWe in the MEA process an energy saving of about 24 .

All of the above calculations were conducted at a stripping pressure of 3 psia a COlean loading of 1.0 wt and an L G ratio of 1.2 L G . Since these three parameters are significant operating parameters for the vacuum carbonate process their impacts on energy performance were investigated in more detail.

The effect of the stripping pressure on steam extraction loss and electricity use of the vacuum pump the two most energy consuming components in the process were examined for a stripping pressure range of 2 8 psia. The steam extraction loss was calculated based on the amount of steam expanded from the extraction pressure to 1.2 psia. The electricity use by the vacuum pump was calculated based on the process to compress the COstream to one atmospheric pressure. Since the absorber and vacuum stripper were operated at similar temperatures closer at a lower stripping pressure the heat duty of the heat exchanger for the COlean and rich solutions was significantly reduced compared to the MEA process. The T between the lean solution inlet and rich solution outlet was thus selected as 10 15 and 20 F. for the process simulations at stripping pressures of 3 4 and 8 psia respectively and no lean rich solution heater exchanger was required at 2 psia.

The process simulations showed that the steam extraction loss increased with increasing stripping pressure to a power of 0.59 while the electricity use of the vacuum pump decreased with increasing operating pressure to a power of 1.07 . Overall the total electricity loss increased with increasing stripping pressure to a power of 0.29. The total electricity loss changed from 50 to 74 MW as the stripping pressure increased from 2 8 psia at an L G ratio of 1.2 L G . This corresponds to about 56 82 of the steam extraction loss of the MEA process.

Only considering the energy consumption for the selected operating pressure range it is expected that a lower stripping pressure will allow the use of lower quality steam which will result in a higher thermal efficiency of the power plant. On the other hand the lowest operating pressure has a boundary since the steam condensation is limited by the cooling water temperature which depends on the water sources and the season as well. The lowest stripping pressure is also limited by the fact that a lower stripping pressure will lead to a larger stripper which in turn increases the capital cost. An optimal stripping pressure should thus exist at which pressure the best economic performance can be achieved.

COloading in the lean solution affects the equilibrium vapor pressure of COin the gas phase and thus impacts the minimum liquid to gas ratio L G in the absorption column. A lower loading of COin the lean solution favors COabsorption resulting in a reduced L G and thus the real L G ratio to achieve the same level of COabsorption . The COloading in the rich solution only changed slightly with decreasing COloadings in the lean solution.

The mass and energy balance calculation showed that a lower lean COloading at the stripper bottom shifted the temperature profile upward in the column compared to a higher COloading. For example at a stripping pressure of 3 psia the temperatures at the bottom and top of the column increased by about 3 F. and 10 F. respectively when the lean COloading varied from 1.5 to 0.5 . Therefore more heat was required to provide for greater water vaporization and the greater heat duty of the reboiler. Although the L G ratio decreased with decreasing lean COloading the resulting reduction of sensible heat was relatively not significant compared to the increased requirement for water latent heat. As a result a decrease of COloading from 1.5 to 0.5 almost doubled the steam extraction loss . While a lower COloading is not economic it can also be noted that a COloading above 1.5 would not greatly improve the energy use performance of the process.

The L G ratio affects both the treated gas purity and the heat requirement of the absorption process. In any chemical absorption process the L G ratio typically ranges from 1.1 1.5 times the L G . The L G ratios examined in this experiment were 1.0 1.2 and 1.5 times L G . The impact on the heat requirement of the stripper is shown in .

At 90 COremoval and a 1 COlean loading in solution the COrich loading at the stripper inlet decreased from 3.8 to 2.8 as the L G increased from 1.0 to 1.5 times L G . The temperature at the stripper bottom was related only to the COlean loading in the equilibrium calculation and thus remained the same. A lower COloading in the rich solution required a slightly higher temperature in the stripping column to drive out the COfrom solution. Therefore more water vaporization was expected at a higher L G ratio. On the other hand a higher L G ratio required more sensible heat for heating the solution. However as mentioned above the sensible heat contributed less than 20 of the total heat requirement for operations at 1 COloading and therefore was not considered significant. Combining the increased heat requirement for water vaporization and solution heating the electricity loss due to steam use increased by about 45 for a change in the L G ratio from 1.0 to 1.5 times L G .

A preliminary cost comparison was made between the MEA process and the vacuum carbonate process . The IECM model e.g. as described in Singh D. Croiset E. Douglas P. L. Douglas M. A. Techno Economic Study of COCapture from An Existing Coal Fired Power Plant MEA Scrubbing vs. O CORecycle Combustion Energy Conversion and Management 2003 44 3073 3091 was employed to estimate the cost of the MEA process based on default financial assumptions built into the model and the process parameters input from this experiment. The resulting breakdown costs for the MEA process were comparable to those previously reported e.g. see Rao A. B. Rubin E. S Identifying Cost Effective COControl Levels fro Amine Based COCapture Systems Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2006 45 242 2429 . The cost analysis of the exemplary vacuum carbonate process was based on a pressure of 3 psia at the top of the stripper a 20 wt KCOsolution a lean loading of 1 COin the solution and an L G ratio of 1.2 times L G . For a preliminary estimation the capital cost of the vacuum process was assumed 50 greater than the MEA process allowing for a larger gas volume under a vacuum condition and the additional expenditure for the vacuum pump. The fixed O M cost was assumed to be proportional to the capital cost. The energy cost in the vacuum carbonate process was obtained by comparing the electricity loss use 104 MW to that of the MEA process 137 MW . Because there are no degradation polymerization problems in the process the carbonate solvent is only lost through stoichiometric reaction with SO. The resulting replacement cost of solvent was estimated based on a mass based price of of the cost of MEA. The other variable cost in the vacuum carbonate process was the use of corrosion inhibitor which was assumed as 20 of the solvent cost. The cost results showed that a significant amount of the cost for the vacuum carbonate process was contributed by the capital investment. Due to its lower energy requirement and lower solvent loss the variable costs for the vacuum process were nearly half those of the MEA process. As a result the COavoidance cost of the vacuum carbonate process was 18 less than the MEA process. Additional information on kinetic based equipment sizing would be useful to obtain more detailed cost estimates.

An improved process for the amine based COcapture process was developed by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and the Kansai Electric Power Company. This process employs the KS 1 solvent an undisclosed amine with steric hindrance. The energy use for COcapture not including COcompression was reported to be 195 kWh ton CO. The total cost is reduced by 20 compared to the MEA process. It can be seen that the techno economic performance of the exemplary vacuum carbonate process in this simulation is comparable to the amine based process where KS 1 is used.

About half of the steam generated in the power plant at a typical operating condition is extracted by the exemplary vacuum carbonate process among which 60 is directly introduced into the stripper. Because of this steam extraction the steam condenser in the reference PC power plant will have excess capacity about 40 . When the vacuum carbonate process is retrofitted to an existing power plant the excess capacity of the existing condenser can be used to condense the CO water stream from the stripper. Since the operating conditions are similar for the two condensation steps the exhaust steam condenser in the existing power plant may be used with minimal modifications. If the vacuum carbonate process is used in a new power plant then more than half of the exhaust steam condenser can be eliminated and instead a CO water condenser should be added. The resulting plant integrates the exemplary vacuum carbonate absorption process and the power plant steam cycle. Such integration is not possible for an MEA process.

The potassium carbonate solution used in this modeling experiment has a slower chemical reaction rate with COthan the MEA solution. At a flue gas temperature of around 122 140 F. downstream of a wet FGD the chemical reaction rate could be slow and become the rate limiting step for the absorption process. As a result the absorber for the vacuum process should be larger than the absorber for the MEA process. To reduce the absorber size developing a good promoter activator is a significant factor for a preferred vacuum carbonate process. Many promoters have been tested and some have been commercialized. Nonlimiting examples may be found in Kohl A. L. Riesenfeld F. C. Gas Purification Fourth Edition Gulf Publishing Company Houston Tex. 1985.

Some earlier studies achieved major improvements for the hot potassium process. For example addition of sodium or potassium arsenite as an activator in KCOsolution has been shown to increase the rate of COabsorption and desorption by about 4 times resulting in appreciable improvements in regeneration heat equipment size and treated gas purity. Another example is the Catacarb potassium carbonate process where an undisclosed additive was used to catalyze absorption and desorption of the acid gases especially of CO. Recently Cullinane and Rochelle demonstrated that a 20 wt KCOsolution promoted with 0.6 M piperazine PZ could achieve absorption rates comparable to those in 5M MEA at temperatures of 40 80 C. More concentrated solvents such as 3.6 M K 1.8M PZ had absorption rates a factor of 1.5 higher than 5M MEA. Thus it is possible to promote the absorption rate of the carbonate solution to a magnitude comparable to that of an MEA solvent.

Another potential issue is that vacuum in the stripper will significantly increase the gas stream volume especially when the vacuum is high. At 3 psia the total COvolume will be more than 600 000 acfm for a 500 MW power plant. At a 5 m s gas velocity the total cross section area at the inlet of the vacuum pump will be about 600 ft. Clearly too high a vacuum will make the capital cost of the vacuum pump high.

The concentration of the carbonate solution is limited by KHCOdissolution. Higher KCOconcentration in solution is possible based on the typical operating conditions employed in this process. For example at 130 F. and 50 conversion of KCOto KHCO the KCOconcentration in solution can reach about 35 . A higher KCOconcentration in solution will increase the working capacity difference of lean and rich COloadings and decrease the L G requirement. If a 30 KCOsolution is used the energy use and cost will be further reduced compared to the 20 KCOsolution used in the above process simulation and cost analysis.

In sum process simulations showed that when an exemplary vacuum carbonate process is operated at a stripping pressure of 3 psia a 1.0 COlean loading and an L G at 1.2 L G the electricity loss due to steam extraction is only about 42 of that in the MEA process. The total electricity loss of the vacuum carbonate process including the COcompression is about 76 of that of the MEA process.

The impacts on the energy performance of the vacuum carbonate process were investigated for three process parameters stripping pressure COloading and L G ratio. Increasing the stripping pressure resulted in an increase of steam usage and quality and a decrease of electricity use for the vacuum pump. Overall as stripping pressure rose from 2 8 psia the total electricity loss increased at a power of 0.22. A decrease of COlean loading from 1.5 to 0.5 almost doubled the steam extraction loss. However a COlean loading higher than 1.0 did not significantly improve the energy performance of the process. Increasing the L G ratio from 1.0 1.5 times the L G increased the electricity loss due to steam extraction by 45 .

The preliminary cost analysis showed that the vacuum carbonate process is economically attractive for post combustion COcapture with an 18 reduction of the COavoidance cost compared to the MEA process.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

