---

title: Methods of making double base casting powder
abstract: The invention relates to a novel process for the production of casting powder with high ntirocellulose content, and casting multiple-base rocket propellant including nitroglycerin formulated from such casting powder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07842144&OS=07842144&RS=07842144
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07842144
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070601
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention generally relates to a process for the production of casting powder with high ntirocellulose content using nitroglycerin formulated in acetone.

Nitrocellulose based propellant compositions are well known in the art having wide ranging utility in the military aerospace and civilian industries. For example such propellant compositions are used as smokeless explosive charges for artillery and small arms for solid fuel rocket engines and in blasting compositions employed within the construction industry.

Conventional granular nitrocellulose based propellant compositions typically include nitrocellulose selected organic or inorganic salts for use as ballistic modifiers or stabilizers and other additives such as carbon black. When other energetic bases such as nitroguanidine or nitroglycerin are also added the propellant is considered a multiple base propellant. Increasing the number of energetic bases within the propellant provides an effective means to enhance the muzzle velocity of the charge and thereby increase performance of the propellant.

Thus a single base propellant contains nitrocellulose with optional additives. A double base propellant contains nitrocellulose as well as an additional nitroglycerin component. A triple base propellant generally contains nitrocellulose nitroglycerin and another base such as nitroguanidine. For example a double base propellant is obtainable from Hercules Incorporated of Wilmington Del. marketed and sold under the tradename Bullseye Powder. Bullseye Powder has a 40 nitroglycerin content 0.75 ethylene centralite stabilizer 1.25 potassium sulfate anti glare agent 0.40 graphite glaze and the balance nitrocellulose the nitrocellulose having a nitrogen content of about 13.2 .

The production of conventional single base double base or triple base propellant powders are known in the art such as set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 701 228 and U.S. Pat. No. 3 622 655 which are incorporated herein by reference. The basic steps according to those processes is to dissolve a dehydrated nitrocellulose in ether alcohol or other solvent. After solvation a selected number of additives and if desired nitrated oil and stabilizer are added. The resultant slurry is cast and cured at an elevated temperature of about 43 C. to about 68 C. until a solid propellant mass is formed. The resultant dough is drawn and extruded into sheets pulverized into the form of grains filled into a mold freed from liquid and dried to yield a conventional double base explosive powder.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 907 619 discloses double base cast propellants formulated with nitrocellulose nitroglycerin triacetin tolylene diisocyanate and nitrodiphenylamine. This patent discloses casting solvents consisting of nitrodiphenylamine diglycol dinitrate and the like.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 080 411 discloses casting powders where the solvents are ether ethyl alcohol and acetone in a ratio of 60 35 5. Similarly U.S. Pat. No. 4 701 228 discloses casting powders produced using solvents of ether or acetone alcohol. 

U.S. Pat. No. 5 218 166 recites the use of Bullseye Powder from Hercules a double base of nitrocellulose and nitroglycerin.

Casting powders containing nitrocellulose have thus been formulated generally by incorporating additives and stabilizers such as 2 nitrodiphenylamine 2 NDPA to alcohol wet nitrocellulose. Nitroglycerin is added as a solution with the solvent diethyl ether and the stabilizer 2 NDPA and mixed in a mixer. Additional diethyl ether is added to give a total solvent loading of approximately 100 . A small amount e.g. 1 of pulling solvent such as acetone is added at the end of the mixing stage to promote nitrocellulose fibers adhering to each other through the finishing stages of blocking billeting finish pressing and cutting. This process is applicable to mix batches of over 200 pounds in a 100 gallon mixer.

The process known in the art relying on diethyl ether suffers from several disadvantages. One disadvantage is the requirement for large quantities of the expensive and hazardous solvent diethyl ether. In a typical 220 pound mix batch prepared conventionally as described above fully 165 pounds of diethyl ether is used along with 55 pounds of ethanol. The binary solvent achieves a 100 solvent load in a ratio of 3 1 diethyl ether to ethyl alcohol. Another disadvantage is that nitroglycerin which is typically purchased from a third party is typically shipped in the solvent acetone. Accordingly the use of acetone during shipping renders the nitroglycerin unsuitable for use directly in the above process where one desires to manufacture a casting powder and propellant containing nitroglycerin.

The art is in need of a process for producing casting powders and multiple base propellants which overcomes the disadvantages of previously used processes. In particular the art is in need of a process that allows for a significant reduction in the use of diethyl ether and the direct use of nitroglycerin formulated in acetone. Applicant s invention unexpectedly addresses these needs.

An aspect of exemplary embodiments of the present invention discloses a process for the production of high nitrocellulose content casting powders and multiple base propellants including nitroglycerin where the solvent diethyl ether may be used in far smaller quantities than the previous conventional processes. Particularly the invention provides a process where the solvent system is a ternary solvent system in a ratio of about 3 1 1 ethanol to acetone to diethyl ether thus yielding a total solvent load of about 63 . Accordingly the diethyl ether component may be drastically reduced. Further the invention provides a process where the nitroglycerin may be used as formulated in acetone and therefore may be purchased from a third party.

Another aspect of exemplary embodiments of the present invention discloses a process for producing double base casting powder may include the steps of mixing ethanol wet nitrocellulose and additives to form a mixture adding to the mixture a solution of nitroglycerine dissolved in acetone and 2 NDPA to form a nitroglycerine mixture adding ethanol to the nitroglycerine mixture with further mixing to form a nitroglycerine mixture with increased ethanol content optionally evaporating a portion of the acetone from the mixture adding ethanol and diethyl ether to the mixture and post processing the mixture to form a double base casting powder.

Yet another aspect of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention discloses additives selected from burn rate modifiers stabilizers and other useful additives in which at least one may be more particularly selected from 2 NDPA lead beta resorcylate lead salicylate and carbon black.

Yet another aspect of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention discloses the mixture of ethanol wet nitrocellulose and additives includes by weight about 90 about 95 ethanol wet nitrocellulose about 2 about 4 lead beta resorcylate about 2 about 4 lead salicylate about 0.2 about 0.4 carbon black and about 1 about 2 2 NDPA. In another aspect of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the nitroglycerine solution includes by weight about 50 about 70 nitroglycerine about 30 about 50 acetone and about 0.3 about 1.0 2 NDPA.

Yet another aspect of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention discloses the nitroglycerine solution dissolved in acetone and 2 NDPA which may be added in an amount between about 25 about 35 of the weight of the ethanol wet nitrocellulose to form a nitroglycerine mixture. Further the ethanol added to the nitroglycerine mixture may generally be added in an amount between about 3 about 6 of the weight of the ethanol wet nitrocellulose to form a nitroglycerine mixture with increased ethanol content.

In yet another aspect of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention additional ethanol may be added to the nitroglycerine mixture with increased ethanol content in an amount between about 2 about 8 of the weight of the ethanol wet nitrocellulose. The diethyl ether added to the nitroglycerine mixture with increased ethanol content and the additional ethanol is generally in an amount between about 10 about 20 of the weight of the ethanol wet nitrocellulose.

An aspect of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention discloses a process to produce casting powders and multiple base propellants therefrom including high nitrocellulose content and being formulated with nitroglycerin solvated in acetone.

For large scale manufacture of the casting powder of the invention generally a 100 gallon horizontal type mixer may be used however alternatively sized mixers are equally amenable to practice of the invention.

Initially ethanol wet nitrocellulose for example from Alliant Techsystems of Radford Va. is added to the mixer. Generally the nitrocellulose includes a nitrogen content between about 10 about 15 and more particularly between about 12.2 about 13.2 . In an exemplary embodiment by weight the ethanol wet nitrocellulose includes from about 65 about 80 dry nitrocellulose and more particularly about 72 dry nitrocellulose as well as from about 20 about 35 ethanol and more particularly about 28 ethanol.

The mixer may be operated with the blades in a forward direction from about 30 minutes to about 120 minutes and more particularly between about 50 about 100 minutes and even more particularly about 75 minutes at a temperature from about 65 about 75 C. and more particularly about 70 C. For optimization the speed may be set and the time may be selected such that clumps of nitrocellulose can be deagglomerated. Additional solid ingredients may be added to the mixer and may include for example additives e.g. stabilizers burn rate modifiers and the like. The mixer may be operated for an additional about 10 minutes to about 30 minutes and more particularly about 20 minutes at a temperature from about 65 C. about 75 C. and more particularly about 70 C.

 Additives includes components added to a propellant to affect at least one of combustion such as burn rate modifers and the flame or gas property such as anti stabilizing agents energetic agents or anti glare agents.

Burn rate modifiers generally employed in conventional double base propellants and already known in the art are suitable for use as additives within the present invention. By way of example combustion accelerators may include at least one of carbon black lead salts and copper salts and more particularly at least one of lead oxides copper oxides lead or copper salicylates octoates stearates bismuth tin and resorcylates. Stabilizers such as at least one of 2 NDPA diphenylamine DPA ethyl centralite EC N methyl p nitroaniline MNA and the like may also be found to be within the scope of the present invention.

Burn rate modifiers and energetics may include at least one of lead beta resorcylate lead salicylate and the like oxidizing agents such as at least one of picric acid and guanidine nitrate diethyleneglycoldinitrate DEGDN cyclotrimethylene trinitramine RDX and cyclotetramethylene tetranitramine HMX and fuels such as at least one of finely divided aluminum beryllium boron and metal hydrides. Conventional plasticizers include both the explosive and non explosive type. Suitable explosive plasticizers include at least one of nitroglycerin butane triol trinitrate diglycol dinitrate ethylene glycol dinitrate and the like. These explosive plasticizers can be mixed with one or more miscible non explosive type plasticizers such as triacetin dibutyl phthalate dimethyl sebacate dibutyl adipate and the like.

The oxidizers energetic bases and other noted additives are generally in liquid form though these materials if mutually antagonistic may be microencapsulated as known in the art prior to addition to the mix.

In an exemplary embodiment burn rate modifiers such as lead beta resorcylate and lead salicylate the stabilizers e.g. 2 NDPA EC DPA and MNA as well as carbon black or other ballistic modifiers are added to the mix at this time. Generally each of the two lead compounds are added from about 2 about 4 of the weight of ethanol wet nitrocellulose and more particularly about 2.8 . Carbon black is added from about 0.2 about 0.4 of the weight of nitrocellulose and more particularly about 0.3 . In an exemplary embodiment 2 NDPA is added from about 1 about 2 and more particularly about 1.7 . The mixer may be operated for an additional about 10 to about 30 minutes and more particularly about 20 minutes at a temperature from about 65 C. about 75 C. and more particularly about 70 C.

The next ingredient added to the mixer is the solution of nitroglycerin in acetone. In an exemplary embodiment the nitroglycerin solution includes from about 50 about 70 nitroglycerin from about 30 about 50 acetone and from about 0.3 about 1 2 NDPA. In another exemplary embodiment the nitroglycerin solution includes about 59.9 nitroglycerin about 39.5 acetone and about 0.6 2 NDPA. This nitroglycerin solution is added to the mixer at about 25 35 of the weight of the original wet nitrocellulose weight and more particularly about 30 added over a period of between about 5 about 15 minutes and more particularly about 10 minutes with the mixer operating in the reverse direction at a temperature from about 70 C. about 80 C. and more particularly about 75 C.

Ethanol may be used to rinse the tank from which the nitroglycerin solution was added and the ethanol itself may be added to the mixer in an amount from about 3 about 6 of the weight of the original nitrocellulose and more particularly about 4.3 . As a result the ethanol content of the mixture i.e. the added ethanol rinse plus the ethanol in the original ethanol wet nitrocellulose may be brought up to about 25 35 and more particularly about 30 . In an exemplary embodiment the mixer may be operated in reverse for a short duration of about 1 minute at a temperature of from about 70 C. about 80 C. and more particularly about 75 C.

The mixer lid may be opened and a source of air stream such as a blower blows air across the open mixer which is operating in a forward direction at a speed sufficiently slow to prevent material from escaping the mixer. The mixer speed generally may be from about 30 to 50 rpm and more particularly about 40 rpm to evaporate a substantial fraction of the acetone as well as a portion of the ethyl alcohol over a period from about 60 minutes to about 90 minutes and more particularly about 75 minutes at a temperature from about 70 C. about 80 C. and more particularly about 75 C.

The temperature may be lowered to between about 40 C. about 60 C. and more particularly about 50 C. for the addition of more solvent. Over a period of about ten minutes ethanol and diethyl ether may be added. Ethanol may be added first at from about 2 about 8 of the weight of the original nitrocellulose and more particularly about 4.5 followed by the addition of diethyl ether from about 10 about 20 of the weight of the original nitrocellulose and more particularly about 14.5 of the weight of the original nitrocellulose. Further mixing may proceed for another about 3 about 10 minutes and more particularly about 5 minutes.

The resulting mixture is ready for post processing such as blocking billeting finish pressing and cutting as known in the art in order to form the double base casting powder of the invention.

220 pounds of ethanol wet nitrocellulose was added to a 100 gallon mixer. The ethanol wet nitrocellulose had a nitrogen content of 12.6 and comprised 72 nitrocellulose and 28 ethanol.

The mixer was operated with the blades in a forward direction for 75 minutes at a temperature of 70 C. Additional solid ingredients the additives were added to the mixer 6.6 pounds each of lead beta resorcylate and lead salicylate plus 0.7 pounds of carbon black plus 4 pounds of the stabilizer 2 NDPA. The mixer was operated for an additional 20 minutes forward direction at a temperature of 70 C.

A solution of nitroglycerin was added to the mixer. The nitroglycerin solution included 66 pounds of a solution consisting of 39.8 pounds of nitroglycerin and 26.2 pounds of acetone plus 0.4 pounds of 2 NDPA. This nitroglycerin solution thus included approximately 59.9 nitroglycerin 39.5 acetone and 0.6 2 NDPA. This nitroglycerin solution was added to the mixer via the mixer s lower addition tank and dispensed remotely over a period of 10 minutes at a temperature of 75 C. The mixer was operated in the reverse direction during this time.

9.5 pounds of ethanol was used to rinse the lower addition tank from which the nitroglycerin solution was dispensed and then the ethanol was itself added to the mixer. The mixer was operated in reverse for a short duration of 1 minute at a temperature of 75 C.

The mixer lid was opened and a blower blew a light air stream across the lid of the open mixer which was operating in a forward direction at 40 rpm. A substantial fraction of the acetone as well as a significant portion of the ethyl alcohol was evaporated by this process over a period of 75 minutes at a temperature of 75 C.

The temperature of the mixer was lowered to 50 C. at which point 10 pounds more ethanol were added first then 32 pounds diethyl ether one 20 liter can were added second to the mixer. The ethanol was dispensed from the lower addition tank and the ether was dispensed from the upper addition tank over a total period of about 10 minutes. The mixer operated forward for 15 minutes including the 10 minute period over which the ethanol and diethyl were added at 50 C.

Following post processing e.g. blocking billeting finish press cutting and drying operations the resulting double base casting powder was analyzed for its composition. The composition was determined to include 73.7 nitrocellulose 12.6 nitrogen content 18 nitroglycerin 3 lead beta resorcylate 3 lead salicylate 2 2 NDPA and 0.3 carbon black. Further the resulting casting powder was made with a drastically reduced requirement for diethyl ether and was able to utilize directly the nitroglycerin formulated in acetone purchased commercially from a third party.

Finally the numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

