---

title: Silicon carbide power devices including P-type epitaxial layers and direct ohmic contacts
abstract: A silicon carbide power device is fabricated by forming a p-type silicon carbide epitaxial layer on an n-type silicon carbide substrate, and forming a silicon carbide power device structure on the p-type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. The n-type silicon carbide substrate is at least partially removed, so as to expose the p-type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. An ohmic contact is formed on at least some of the p-type silicon carbide epitaxial layer that is exposed. By at least partially removing the n-type silicon carbide substrate and forming an ohmic contact on the p-type silicon carbide epitaxial layer, the disadvantages of using a p-type substrate may be reduced or eliminated. Related structures are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08866150&OS=08866150&RS=08866150
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 08866150
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070531
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N00014 05 C 0202 awarded by ONR DARPA. The Government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to methods of fabricating power devices and the resulting devices and more particularly to silicon carbide power devices and methods of fabricating silicon carbide power devices.

Power devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. Modern power devices are often fabricated from monocrystalline silicon semiconductor material. One widely used power device is the power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET . In a power MOSFET a control signal is supplied to a gate electrode that is separated from the semiconductor surface by an intervening insulator which may be but is not limited to silicon dioxide. Current conduction occurs via transport of majority carriers without the presence of minority carrier injection that is used in bipolar transistor operation. Power MOSFETs can provide an excellent safe operating area and can be paralleled in a unit cell structure.

As is well known to those having skill in the art power MOSFETs may include a lateral structure or a vertical structure. In a lateral structure the drain gate and source terminals are on the same surface of a substrate. In contrast in a vertical structure the source and drain are on opposite surfaces of the substrate.

One widely used silicon power MOSFET is the double diffused MOSFET DMOSFET which is fabricated using a double diffusion process. In these devices a p base region and an n source region are diffused through a common opening in a mask. The p base region is driven in deeper than the nsource. The difference in the lateral diffusion between the p base and nsource regions forms a surface channel region. An overview of power MOSFETs including DMOSFETs may be found in the textbook entitled Power Semiconductor Devices by B. J. Baliga published by PWS Publishing Company 1996 and specifically in Chapter 7 entitled Power MOSFET the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if set forth fully herein.

Another type of widely used power device is the Bipolar Junction Transistor BJT . A BJT typically includes a semiconductor material having two opposing p n junctions in close proximity to one another thus BJTs may be referred to as n p n or p n p transistors. In operation current carriers enter a region of the semiconductor material of a first conductivity type adjacent one of the p n junctions which is called the emitter. Most of the charge carriers exit the device from a region of the semiconductor material of the first conductivity type adjacent the other p n junction which is called the collector. A small portion of semiconductor material known as the base having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type of the collector and the emitter is positioned between the collector and the emitter. The two p n junctions of the BJT are formed where the collector meets the base and where the base meets the emitter.

When current is injected into or extracted from the base depending upon whether the BJT is n p n or p n p the flow of charge carriers i. e. electrons or holes which can move from the emitter to the collector may be affected. Typically small currents applied to the base can control proportionally larger currents passing through the BJT giving it usefulness as a component of electronic circuits. Structural and operational details of BJT s are discussed in Solid State Electronic Devices by B. Streetman 2nd edition 1980 chapter 7 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors IGBTs are yet another type of power device that can combine the drive gate characteristics of the power MOSFET with the high current and low saturation voltage of BJTs by combining a power MOSFET for the control input and a bipolar power transistor as a switch in a single device. An overview of IGBTs may be found in the above cited textbook entitled Power Semiconductor Devices and specifically in Chapter 8 entitled Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if set forth fully herein.

Recent development efforts in power devices have also included investigation of the use of silicon carbide SiC devices for power devices. Silicon carbide has a wide bandgap a lower dielectric constant a high breakdown field strength a high thermal conductivity and a high saturation electron drift velocity compared to silicon. These characteristics may allow silicon carbide power devices to operate at higher temperatures higher power levels and or with lower specific on resistance than conventional silicon based power devices. A theoretical analysis of the superiority of silicon carbide devices over silicon devices is found in a publication by Bhatnagar et al. entitled 6 3 IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices Vol. 40 1993 pp. 645 655. A power MOSFET fabricated in silicon carbide is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 421 to Palmour entitled Power MOSFET in Silicon Carbide and assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Other power devices fabricated in silicon carbide are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 118 970 7 074 643 7 026 650 6 979 863 and 6 956 238.

Silicon carbide IGBTs may be highly desirable when very high blocking voltages are desirable. In particular because the on resistance of a unipolar power device such as a DMOSFET generally increases by the square of the blocking voltage it may be desirable to provide IGBT devices at very high blocking voltages. For silicon carbide devices this transition point may occur at about 10 kV when considering both conduction and switching losses. As is well known to those having skill in the art a unipolar device such as a DMOSFET may be converted to a bipolar device such as an IGBT by adding a junction between the substrate and the epitaxial drift region. For example a unipolar n channel DMOSFET structure can become bipolar when the substrate is switched from n type to p type. The p n junction so formed is forward biased in the on state and injects minority carriers into the lightly doped drift region to increase its conductivity a phenomenon known as conductivity modulation . Thus a p channel IGBT may be fabricated on n type substrates of for example 4H silicon carbide to provide a p n junction between the n type substrate and the p type drift region.

It may also be desirable to provide an n channel IGBT because this device could provide lower on resistance and or higher blocking voltage than its p channel counterpart. Moreover n channel devices with their positive voltage polarities and similarities to conventional power MOSFETs may be more attractive from a systems point of view. Unfortunately 4H silicon carbide p type substrates that would be used to fabricate n channel IGBTs generally lack both the quality and conductivity to work well in an IGBT.

Some embodiments of the invention fabricate a silicon carbide power device by forming a p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer on an n type silicon carbide substrate and forming a silicon carbide power device structure on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. The n type silicon carbide substrate is at least partially removed so as to expose the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. An ohmic contact is formed on at least some of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer that is exposed. Accordingly by at least partially removing the n type silicon carbide substrate and forming an ohmic contact on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer the potential disadvantages of using a p type substrate may be reduced or eliminated.

Many techniques may be used to at least partially remove the n type silicon carbide substrate so as to expose the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. For example in some embodiments at least one via is etched through the n type silicon carbide substrate so as to expose the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer in the via. An ohmic contact is then formed in the at least one via. In other embodiments the entire n type silicon carbide substrate is removed. In still other embodiments the n type silicon carbide substrate may be thinned and then at least one via may be etched through the thinned n type silicon carbide substrate.

In some embodiments prior to removing the entire n type silicon carbide substrate thinning the n type silicon carbide substrate and or etching vias the silicon carbide power device is bonded to a carrier substrate. After removing the entire n type silicon carbide substrate thinning the n type silicon carbide substrate and or etching vias the silicon carbide power device structure may then be debonded from the carrier substrate.

Many techniques may be used to form the ohmic contact on at least some of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer that is exposed. In some embodiments at least some of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer that is exposed is metallized and then at least some of the metallization is laser annealed. In other embodiments metallizing may be performed by sequentially forming a first layer comprising aluminum a second layer comprising titanium and a third layer comprising nickel on at least some of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer that is exposed. In still other embodiments a single layer comprising aluminum may be provided and laser annealed.

Various types of silicon carbide power device structure may be formed on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer according to various embodiments of the present invention. For example in some embodiments a p type silicon carbide power device for example a p channel or p base device may be formed on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. In other embodiments an n type silicon carbide power device for example an n channel or n base device is formed on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer by epitaxially forming an n type silicon carbide layer directly on the p type epitaxial silicon carbide layer so as to form a p n junction therebetween.

In yet other embodiments of the invention the silicon carbide power device structure that is formed on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer is an n channel silicon carbide DMOSFET such that the n channel silicon carbide DMOSFET and the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer provide an n channel silicon carbide IGBT. In some embodiments of this n channel IGBT fabrication process the DMOSFET may be fabricated on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer prior to at least partially removing the n type silicon carbide substrate. In these embodiments the n type silicon carbide substrate is at least partially removed and the ohmic contact may be formed using the three layer structure that was described above and by laser annealing. Moreover the bonding and debonding of a carrier substrate as described above may also be used. However in other embodiments at least partially removing the n type silicon carbide substrate so as to expose the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer may be performed during and or prior to forming the silicon carbide power device structure on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer.

Silicon carbide power devices according to some embodiments of the present invention comprise a p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer including first and second opposing faces. A silicon carbide power device structure is on the second face of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. An ohmic contact is directly on at least a portion of the first face of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. In some embodiments an n type silicon carbide substrate also is on the first face including at least one via that extends therethrough so as to expose at least a portion of the first face of the p type silicon carbide layer. In these embodiments the ohmic contact extends in the at least one via and directly on at least a portion of the p type silicon carbide layer that is exposed. The ohmic contact may comprise a metal contact and may include laser annealed portions thereof. A single layer contact or a three layer contact as described above also may be provided.

In some embodiments the silicon carbide power device structure comprises an n channel silicon carbide DMOSFET structure directly on the second face of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer such that the n channel silicon carbide DMOSFET structure and the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer provide an n channel silicon carbide IGBT structure. However in other embodiments other n type or p type silicon carbide power device structures may be provided on the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. In still other embodiments the silicon carbide power device structure comprises an n type silicon carbide epitaxial layer directly on the second face of the p type epitaxial silicon carbide layer so as to form a p n junction therebetween.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. In contrast the term consisting of when used in this specification specifies the stated features integers steps operations elements and or components and precludes additional features integers steps operations elements and or components. Moreover the term consisting essentially of when used in the specification specifies the stated number of features integers steps operations elements and or components and precludes additional features integers steps operations elements and or components except for insubstantial amounts of impurities or other materials that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristics of the stated features integers steps operations elements and or components.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Relative terms such as below or above or upper or lower or horizontal or lateral or vertical may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a discrete change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes. Some material may be designated with a or as in n n p p n n p p or the like to indicate a relatively larger or smaller concentration of majority carriers compared to another layer or region. However such notation does not imply the existence of a particular concentration of majority or minority carriers in a layer or region.

Referring now to D and F the n type silicon carbide substrate of is at least partially removed so as to expose the first face of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer . Many techniques may be used to at least partially remove the n type silicon carbide substrate so as to expose the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer . In particular in the entire n type silicon carbide substrate is removed. In at least one via is etched through the n type silicon carbide substrate so as to expose the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer in the via . Alternatively in the n type silicon carbide substrate is thinned and then at least one via is etched through the n type silicon carbide substrate that has been thinned so as to expose the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer in the via . Techniques for at least partially removing a silicon carbide substrate by grinding and or etching are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 125 786 6 946 739 6 649 497 6 515 303 and 6 475 889 and in U.S. Patent Application Publications US 2005 0151138 and 2007 0066039 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as if set forth fully herein and need not be described further herein.

Referring now to E and G an ohmic contact is formed on at least some of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer that is exposed. For example in an ohmic contact is formed directly on the exposed first face of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. In an ohmic contact is formed in the vias that were formed in the etched n type silicon carbide substrate . Finally in an ohmic contact is formed in the vias of the etched and thinned n type silicon carbide substrate . In the ohmic contact and may extend beyond the vias as shown. In some embodiments the ohmic contact may be formed by metallizing at least some of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer that is exposed.

Moreover as also shown in after the three layer Al Ti Ni stack is deposited a laser anneal may be performed for the ohmic contact. A laser anneal may be performed by scanning a laser beam over the ohmic contact stack . Alternatively a pulsed laser beam may be provided to form an array or grid of regions for example dots on the face of the ohmic contact stack that are laser annealed. Laser annealing may be particularly beneficial when the ohmic contact is formed after the power device so as to avoid the need for high temperature annealing of the ohmic contact. Laser annealing of an ohmic contact for silicon carbide is described in U.S. Application Publication 2005 0104072 to Slater Jr. et al. entitled Localized Annealing of Metal Silicon Carbide Ohmic Contacts and Devices So Formed the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if set forth fully herein.

The three layer stack that is illustrated in may be particularly amenable to the laser annealing process. In particular an aluminum layer forms a good ohmic contact for p type silicon carbide layer . However the aluminum may be reflective at thicknesses greater than for example about 500 so that the laser beam may reflect off the aluminum and not penetrate to the junction between the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer and the aluminum layer and may not form a high quality ohmic contact. However it has been found that the combination of aluminum titanium and nickel can provide a structure that allows the laser to penetrate through to the junction with the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer . Without wishing to be bound by any theory of operation it appears that the aluminum layer may be made sufficiently thin for example less than about 500 thick so as to be semitransparent to the laser beam and that the nickel layer can also be made sufficiently thin for example less than about 500 so as to also be semitransparent to the laser beam while enhancing the quality of the ohmic contact . In particular the laser beam may be absorbed in the nickel layer in addition to the interface between the p type silicon carbide layer and the aluminum layer . This may cause the nickel layer to at least partially melt which in turn can melt at least part of the lower melting point aluminum layer . The intermediate titanium layer can enhance adhesion and corrosion resistance.

In yet other embodiments of the present invention a single aluminum layer may be used and laser annealed as was described in connection with . In particular in some embodiments a single layer comprising aluminum may be provided having a thickness of about 250 and in some embodiments about 276 . Laser annealing may be performed at densities of 4.0J cmto about 2.5J cm with five pulses per area in some embodiments to produce an ohmic contact. In some embodiments the lower fluences from about 3.5J cmto about 2.5J cmmay produce a better ohmic contact. The contact resistance may be in a similar range as produced by the three layer Al Ti Ni stack . Accordingly some embodiments of the present invention may provide an ohmic contact for p type silicon carbide layer using a single layer comprising aluminum that is then laser annealed.

It will also be understood by those having skill in the art that embodiments of may be used for the ohmic contacts embodiments of C C C and C and also may be used for the ohmic contacts of E E E and E and or the ohmic contacts of G G G or G.

As noted above also illustrate silicon carbide power devices according to various embodiments of the present invention. These devices include a p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer including first and second opposing faces respectively. A silicon carbide power device structure or is provided on the second face of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer . An ohmic contact or is provided directly on at least a portion of the first face of the p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer. Some embodiments also include a silicon carbide substrate including at least one via that extends therethrough so as to expose at least a portion of the first face of the p type silicon carbide layer wherein the ohmic contact extends in the at least via and directly on at least a portion of the first face of the p type silicon carbide layer that is exposed. As also shown in in some embodiments the ohmic contact comprises a metal contact including laser annealed portions therein. The metal contact that includes laser annealed portions therein may comprise first second and third layers as illustrated in or a single layer as described above.

Referring now to a p silicon carbide epitaxial layer also referred to as a p injector layer may be grown to a thickness of about 15 m and doped with aluminum at a density of 1E9 cm. The p injector layer may be epitaxially grown on a 4H n type 8 off axis low Micro Pipe Density MPD silicon carbide substrate . An n type silicon carbide buffer layer may then be grown on the p silicon carbide injector to a thickness of about 2 m and doped with nitrogen at about 4E16 cm. An n type silicon carbide blocking layer may then be epitaxially grown on the n type silicon carbide buffer layer to a thickness of about 120 m and doped with nitrogen at a level of about 3E14 cm. The exposed surface of the silicon carbide blocking layer may then be planarized by grinding away about 20 m of this layer to thin the layer to about 100 m in thickness and polishing the layer. The resultant n silicon carbide blocking layer can form the n drift region of the device.

Referring now to a silicon carbide n DMOSFET is then fabricated for example as described in the above cited U.S. Patents. For example p wells are implanted for example using aluminum at a dose of about 5E14 cmand a highest energy of 360 keV at a temperature of about 650 C. P regions are implanted using for example boron at a total dose of about 4.47E13 cmand a highest energy of 180 keV at room temperature. A JFET region is then implanted using nitrogen at a total dose of about 4.9E11 cmand a highest energy of about 360 keV at room temperature. A high temperature implant activation anneal may then be performed at about 1650 C. in argon for about 5 minutes. N epitaxial regrowth region is then formed for example by performing epitaxial growth in nitrogen for a thickness of about 1200 and a dose of about 1E16 cm. N source regions are then formed for example in nitrogen at a total dose of about 2E15 cmand a highest energy of about 130 keV at about 650 C. P body regions are then implanted for example using aluminum at a total dose of 8.2E14 cmand a highest energy of about 300 keV at about 650 C. The regrown layer may then be etched to provide a mesa as illustrated. N channel stop implantations may then performed using nitrogen at a total dose of about 2E14 cmand a highest energy of about 180 keV at room temperature. A high temperature implant activation anneal may then be performed about 1650 C. for about 5 minutes in argon. Field oxide may then be deposited for example using high temperature oxide at a thickness of about 8000 . Gate oxide is then grown for example under the following parameters 1175 C. Dry O3 30 hr. 1175 C. Ar 1 hr 950 C. Wet O3 hr. 1175 C. NO 2 hr. Gate metal is then deposited for example using about 4000 of polysilicon doped with boron. Metallization may then be performed to form gate metal for example using Al Ni at a thickness of about 150 400 and n ohmic metallization may then be performed to form the source contact for example using about 500 of nickel. An ohmic contact anneal may then be performed at about 825 C. in argon for about 2 minutes in a rapid thermal annealing furnace. Overlayer metal deposition not shown may then take place using for example about 4 m of aluminum. A spin on scratch coating not shown of about 8 m of polyimide may then be applied. It will be understood that the steps described in connection with are well known to those having skill in the art of fabrication of an n DMOSFET device and may be varied considerably depending upon the design objective and or other features to be included in the design.

Referring now to a protective layer of for example photoresist and or other protective material may then be applied and the structure may then be bonded to a carrier wafer for support.

Referring now to the n silicon carbide substrate is ground down to expose the first face of the p silicon carbide epitaxial layer .

Then referring to an ohmic contact is formed on the first face of the p silicon carbide epitaxial layer . As was described in connection with the ohmic contact may include a first layer comprising aluminum at about 200 in thickness a second layer comprising titanium at about 100 in thickness and a third layer comprising nickel at about 400 thickness. A laser anneal is then performed as was described above. Back side overlayer metallization also may be performed by adding about 1000 of titanium about 500 of platinum and about 9000 of gold not shown .

Finally as shown in the structure is debonded from the carrier wafer and the layer of photoresist and or other bonding layers may be removed.

Additional discussion of various embodiments of the present invention will now be provided. In particular because the on resistance of a unipolar power device generally increases by the square of the blocking voltage a technology switch to bipolar devices may be desirable at very high blocking voltages. For silicon carbide devices this transition point generally occurs at about 10 kV when considering both conduction and switching losses. A unipolar n channel DMOSFET structure becomes bipolar when the substrate is switched from n type to p type. This p n junction is forward biased in the on state and injects minority carriers into the lightly doped blocking layer to increase its conductivity a phenomenon known as conductivity modulation. Unfortunately 4H SiC p type substrates generally lack both quality and conductivity to work in this regard. Hence a p channel IGBT fabricated on 4H silicon carbide n type substrate has been developed as described for example in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 817 296 filed Jun. 29 2006 entitled Silicon Carbide Switching Devices Including P Type Channels and Methods of Forming the Same the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if set forth fully herein.

Conventional n channel silicon IGBTs generally are not viable above the about 10 kV range where silicon carbide devices operate due to silicon material limitations. Moreover conventional n channel silicon carbide DMOSFETs may suffer from extensive conduction losses above about 10 kV blocking voltage due to its unipolar nature.

In contrast according to some embodiments of the present invention n channel IGBTs may be provided by reducing or eliminating the above described issues with the p type substrate. Rather conventional n drift buffer layers are grown on a p epilayer. The substrate may be removed by grinding wherein the grinding process can stop on the p epilayer. Back side ohmic contacts may be made by laser annealing before overlayer deposition.

P channel silicon carbide IGBTs may be compared with n channel silicon carbide IGBTs according to some embodiments of the present invention. compare 4H silicon carbide p channel IGBT and n channel IGBT turn on characteristics. As shown in the n channel IGBT demonstrates lower differential on resistance and full 10 kV blocking as a result of benefiting from the mature 4H SiC DMOSFET technology. Thus lower on resistance and higher blocking voltage may be provided by an n channel SiC IGBT according to some embodiments of the present invention compared to its p channel counterpart because the technology is derived from a mature SiC n channel MOSFET process. The conduction and blocking characteristics of n channel IGBTs are illustrated in . illustrates forward conduction of large area n IGBTs capable of carrying 4 amperes at a threshold voltage of 5 volts. illustrates the forward blocking voltage of the same device of showing low leakage current at the 10 kV blocking voltage. The n channel legacy also results in good wafer yield as shown in FIG. wherein the squares labeled and provide 10 kV capable devices with a 27 blocking yield. Moreover the n channel devices with their positive voltage polarities and similarities to conventional power MOSFETs may be more attractive from a systems point of view. It will also be understood that illustrate n channel IGBTs. However other devices that use a p type silicon carbide epitaxial layer may benefit from methods and structures according to embodiments of the present invention.

Accordingly some embodiments of the invention use the wrong polarity substrate as a platform to fabricate devices of high quality. The wrong polarity substrate is then at least partially removed to reduce or eliminate its effect.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

