---

title: Synchronization of fixed and mobile data
abstract: A computer-implemented method for coordinating web-based content between networked computing devices is disclosed. The method includes associating an identifier with a first remote device without connecting the identifier to a registered user account, receiving from the first remote device a request to modify a web page, receiving a log-in from a registered user and associating the log-in with the first remote device after receiving the request to modify a first personalized web page, and associating the request to modify a web page with a first personalized home page associated with the registered user, and modifying the first personalized home page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08326858&OS=08326858&RS=08326858
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08326858
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070117
---
As mobile devices such as cellular telephones and personal digital assistants become more powerful and are provided with much better graphics users of mobile devices are seeking to receive richer experiences from their devices. Where once simple telephone access and text messaging were enough users now seek more features. Mobile devices for example can support web browsers that provide access for web browsing albeit in a slightly reduced size from fixed desktop computers and to particular web sites designed for mobile view e.g. authored in WML or xHTML .

However mobile devices do not always lend themselves to the same uses as full featured fixed devices such as desktop personal computers. For example large images may be very helpful and beautiful on a large desktop display but they are generally not useful on mobile devices because they lose their resolution or require extensive panning. In addition many mobile devices do not have the same features as fixed systems such as the ability to play Flash animations handle JavaScript or handle other newer technologies as they emerge. Mobile devices are also generally different with respect to inputting information. In particular they generally do not have full keyboards so that data input can be difficult especially when lots of data needs to be entered . In addition it is often necessary to operate mobile devices with a single hand and sometimes using nothing more than a thumb for data input.

In addition users typically have different needs with mobile devices than they do with devices at home or work. For example mobile users are often looking for particular information that they need right away and do not use their mobile devices for in depth research or lengthy web browsing which a user may do more on a desktop PC. For convenience the needs of mobile users may be classified into three groups for examination the daily now the urgent now and the bored now. The daily now references repetitive queries performed on a frequent and even daily basis such as questions about weather traffic and stock prices. The urgent now references situations in which a user needs an answer right away such as the need to get a telephone number the location of a local business or product prices for comparison purposes. The bored now describes a scenario in which a user needs to pass the time such as by entertaining themselves with games news blogs or browsing ring tones while waiting at a caf or for a train. It may be helpful to provide such users with devices and services that address these and similar situations and also helpful to let such users be served well on their desktop machines and their mobile devices.

This document describes systems and methods that may be employed by a user wishing to coordinate information that they access between two locations such as between their fixed e.g. desktop or laptop computer and a mobile device e.g. PDA or cell phone . In one such implementation a user may have personal home pages that display the information that is of particular relevance to the user presented as modules of information. For example the user may want to see a world clock news stories weather and certain blogs when they are on their main computer. They may want to see certain similar things on their mobile device such as weather but they may not want to see other things such as certain blogs and they may want to see additional things such as bus schedules and traffic information which are very closely tied to mobile users. The users may be provided with capabilities to edit the information that is displayed on each page e.g. mobile page and fixed or desktop page and to coordinate it including during times when the users are not logged onto the system and thus may be seen as unknown entities to the system.

In one implementation a computer implemented method for coordinating web based content between networked computing devices is disclosed. The method comprises associating an identifier with a first remote device without connecting the identifier to a registered user account receiving from the first remote device a request to modify a web page receiving a log in from a registered user and associating the log in with the first remote device after receiving the request to modify a first personalized web page and associating the request to modify a web page with a first personalized home page associated with the registered user and modifying the first personalized home page. The identifier can include a cookie stored on the first remote device. The method may also further comprise modifying a second personalized home page associated with the registered user wherein the first personalized home page and the second personalized home page share some or all common content.

In certain aspects the first personalized home page can be associated with a first type of user device and the second personalized home page can be associated with a second type of user device having display capabilities that differ from display capabilities of the first type of user device. The method may also include receiving a request associated with the registered user to modify the second personalized home page and making a corresponding modification to the first home page. In addition the method can include displaying on a mobile device a plurality of controls whose selection will cause a module of web content to be added to a mobile related web page associated with the first remote device. In addition the method may include selecting the plurality of controls for display according to popularity of each control in a region associated with the first remote device. In yet other aspects the log in can be received from a full featured computer and be associated with the first remote device by causing a text message to be sent to the first remote device that directs the first remote device to a server storing the anonymous identifier and provides the server with information associated with the registered user.

In other aspects the method may also include modifying an equivalent home page to the personalized homepage wherein the equivalent homepage contains substantially the same topics as the personalized home page with different formatting. The personalized home page can be formatted for display on a mobile device and the equivalent homepage is formatted for display on a full featured computer. Also modifying the equivalent home page can comprise creating the equivalent home page and populating it with modules corresponding to modules selected for the personalized home page. The method may also include synchronizing content on the personalized home page with content on the equivalent homepage by identifying content that has been added to or deleted from one of the personalized home page and equivalent home page and adding or deleted the corresponding content from the other home page.

In yet another implementation a computer implemented system is disclosed. The system includes a web page content database storing associations between session identifiers for devices of unknown users and entries corresponding to personalized web page content for the devices a personalized web page database containing code defining web pages for registered users a personalized home page manager to associate a registered user with a session identifier upon a log in by the registered user and to associate entries corresponding to personalized web page content with a personalized web page associated with the registered user. The entries corresponding to personalized web page content can be generated from messages received from the devices. Also the messages received from the devices can be delivered by a browser redirect upon selection by users of the devices of a control for adding content to a personalized page.

In some aspects the code defining web pages for registered users comprises code defining two or more corresponding but different pages for each of a plurality of users. In addition the personalized home page manager may be configured to associate entries corresponding to personalized web page content with the two or more corresponding but different pages for each of a plurality of users.

In yet another implementation a computer implemented system is disclosed. The system includes a web page content database storing associations between session identifiers for devices of unknown users and entries corresponding to personalized web page content for the devices a personalized web page database containing code defining web pages for registered users and means for associating entries corresponding to personalized web page content for a device with a personalized home page for a registered user.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Referring to the items in a series of displays are shown. The displays show a series of displays that would be presented to someone using a web browser or similar application on a mobile device. Display shows an exemplary search input page here a page associated with the Google search engine directed to mobile devices. Such a web page may provide access to a back end server system for returning various search results. The search results may be delivered for example in a variety of groups associated for example with various corpuses of documents. The corpuses may include for example web search image search news blogs shopping e.g. for price comparison book search and other various groups or categories of results. A search button can be pressed to trigger a search i.e. submit the search terms to a remote or local search engine. The display does not initially show very much information to a user because the device associated with such a display does not know much about the user e.g. such as content the user likes to read the user s location and the user s e mail account information among other things .

Because knowledge of a user s location can be helpful in various sorts of mobile scenarios such as when a user seeks driving directions the nearest coffee shop or local weather a local control labeled set city is also provided. Selection of the control or one of opt in controls can cause a change of displays and cause a prompt to be provided in the display for the user to enter a location identifier such as a city name perhaps with state initials a zip code or a telephone area code.

Entry of such information by a user may cause a location identifier associated with the location to be added to subsequent queries such as queries determined to be local in character based on the terms used in the queries for example queries like Starbucks local pizza joints or movies now might be queries that are judged to be local . The location identifier may be the same as that entered by the user or may be a related identifier e.g. if the user enters a town and state name the system may use the corresponding zip code as the identifier . Particular techniques for determining a default location for a mobile device and for determining how and when to use location information in generating search results are described in co pending U.S. Ser. No. 11 624 184 filed on the same date as the instant application which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Opt in controls may be selected by the user to provide customization or personalization to the display such as by adding content specific modules to a user s personalized home page. In the exemplary display a number of general opt in controls which may previously have been determined to be generally useful for a large number of mobile users are shown. The pictured controls include controls that if selected will add graphical weather and traffic information to the page and can also show a user s top five e mails in a system associated with a particular e mail provider. A more link may also be selected to have additional sorts of controls displayed where selection of such control may cause additional content to be added to a personalized page for the device.

The opt in controls may take the form of a simple hyperlink as shown in the figure or as a graphical object such as a button associated with certain HTML code. The hyperlink may point to a page at a service provider that generated display and may cause identifying information about the device associated with display to be transmitted to the service so that the service may associate the request for additional information on a home page with the device. Specifically and as described in more detail below selection of a control may cause an HTTP request to be sent to a remote server and the remote server may use an identifier such as a cookie to identify a user of the device and to thereby add content associated with the selected control to a personalized home page associated with the user.

In the particular example the user chooses to have a weather module added to her search page to better customize it. Rather than simply causing the addition of content the weather hyperlink actually points to an address at the information provider that initially causes a determination to be made whether the device has had a default location associated with it. If the device has such an associated location the system displays the weather module using that information not shown . In the pictured example the user has not yet provided location information before choosing to add the weather module e.g. perhaps her mobile phone was brand new . As a result the information provider serves up display which includes a simple input box into which the user is prompted to enter a location identifier. Display shows the weather module having been added to the user s personalized page and also shows that the user identified herself as being located in beautiful Palo Alto Calif.

The weather module or other modules that a user selects for the personalized home page may be formatted in various manners to best suit the content to be displayed. Here the information is shown in a standard two day weather forecast with graphics. Note that the add weather control has also disappeared since the user has now added that module. The other controls have moved upward and the space vacated by the weather control has been replaced by an add news control which may have been determined to be the fourth most relevant module relevant to mobile users. Such modules may also be provided based on their associated with particular search terms entered by a user of a mobile device.

As illustrated the user then selects a traffic control . In this operation the service provider s records show a default location of Palo Alto associated with the device. As a result the user need not provide a location for traffic information that they want to see. Display may thus be displayed immediately upon the selection of control and provides both the weather module and traffic module . The now customized mobile webpage also shows an alert telling the user that the traffic module has been successfully added in other implementations such an alert need not be displayed. Also an add sports control has been added to make up for the space vacated by the traffic control. The modules to promote on display of a search page may occur in various manners. In one implementation for example modules may be selected for promotion based on overall module popularity i.e. how many people in the same country as the user have added the module and or on the user s own search activity e.g. search on news and sports related topics may case news and sports modules to be promoted .

Various other controls may also be selected. In some instances a service provider may simply reflect that a particular module has been selected. In other circumstances the selection of the control may be reflected along with particular parameters for the control that are associated with a user as shown in Table 1 below. Certain parameters such as a location identifier may be stored separately from particular controls and may be applied across controls.

As discussed in more detail below the actions by a user to customize a page in this manner may be reflected immediately in an account associated with a particular user such as when the user has previously logged into their account earlier in the session. Where the user makes selections without being logged in the selections can be assigned to the user later after they identify themselves such as by logging in. In addition such changes may also be reflected in personalized pages associated with the user for display on non mobile fixed devices such as home PCs.

Display shows a search box along with six content modules . The search box may be used in a conventional manner to obtain search results for a query such as a query for local pizza shops. The user s current default location New York City is shown above the search box so that when a user enters queries having a local character to them such as weather traffic movies now inexpensive italian restaurants and the like certain local results may be returned for the query as if the terms New York City a corresponding zip code or the like had been included in the queries.

Each of the modules in display is shown in its contracted state showing only a limited amount of information such as a single line. In this manner a maximum number of modules can be viewed and the user a person named Yael in this example may still be able to enter search queries if they would like. Even in the contracted state certain of the modules display summary information in addition to title information. For example the weather module shows the current cloud cover and temperature so that the user can decide quickly whether to wear a coat the news module indicates how many unread news stories have been received so the user knows quickly whether to expand the news module the mail module shows how many new e mails are waiting and the sports module shows a summary of a game and in this case a game corresponding to the default location of the device New York City Mets vs. Giants . In this manner a user may obtain much information simply by flipping their device open and perhaps with the activation of the particular application but without a need for extensive navigation.

Display is the same as display but with the weather module expanded such as by the user selecting the title bar of that module. The location for the weather is Mountain View Calif. either because for example the user has entered a different default location or because the New York City location is not permanent and the weather module is programmed to reference the device s permanent home location. Here the search box has been covered by an upward animation of the weather module since a person is less likely to want to search while they are reviewing detailed information about a module. However the search box could be retained it could be removed its look could be changed or it could be provided in another form in a pop up window similar to the pop up window in display or inside the expanded weather module itself. When the expanded module is contracted e.g. by selecting or clicking on its title bar the search box may be displayed again.

The weather module supplies a much more detailed forecast when it is expanded and also provides links to further weather related information such as a longer range forecast. The expanded module could also be configured to display one or more ads associated with the content of the module such as through the use of the Google Adsense system. Other expanded and contracted modules are shown elsewhere in this document. Various formats may be used for such modules and third party users may submit content in various forms such as XML to a service provider that then presents the content to mobile devices in a unified manner. Where modules show advertising the author of content for the module may share in any click through activity in the module.

Display shows an exemplary technique for changing the default location for a device. The default location may be the location associated with search queries that do not contain an explicit location identifier such as a zip code or airport code where the query terms indicate that the search is geographically related and or when local search results are prepared. For example a search containing the word restaurant or movie may be determined to be such a local search request and the system may conduct a search for corresponding restaurants or movie theatres in an area corresponding to the default location when the user enters such a query without including explicit location based information. The display shows a pop up bubble over the display that was previously shown to the user which may occur for example when a user selects the New York City hyperlink on display .

A search box is displayed in the pop up bubble along with the location being returned by a GPS system in the device and a list of recent locations that have been provided to the device and or sensed by the GPS system and or provided by the user in past queries. An entry box and go button are also shown for entry and selection by the user. When a location identifier is entered in pop up bubble it may become the default location e.g. replacing New York City in display . A control similar to pop up bubble may also be used to permit searching when a user has a module expanded and may in particular permit limited searching on a corpus associated with the particular module e.g. searching only on a weather corpus when the weather module is expanded or searching on a particular blog when a module associated with that blog is expanded . A user conducting a search in such a manner may also be taken to a main results page that provides results for a corpus associated with the specific module and also results for other corpuses.

In the example display reflects that the user while browsing the internet has happened upon an interesting site called The Daily Patent. The site may provide a variety of content including a title area and a This Day in Patents daily factoid . A control may be displayed in the form of a selectable button labeled Add to Home Page. In addition the site may contain advertising in the form of promotional text and perhaps graphics that can be selected by a user to take the user to a web site associated with the advertiser for more information. The advertisement may be provided by the author of the web page or may be provided by an external service such as the well known Google Adsense service.

The control may be directed to a home page manager at the service provider which when the control is selected will receive information identifying the information to be provided on the user s personalized home page and will also receive identification information for the user so that the user s home page may be updated accordingly by adding code associated with The Daily Patent. The user identification information may be specific or general. For example if the user has logged into the service provider using for example an ID and password the particular user can be identified specifically. Alternatively if the user has not yet logged on a session ID may be used to identify the user generally and the specific ID of the user may later be connected with the session ID if the user ultimately logs onto the system as described more fully below.

The second display display shows a horoscope website to which the user has navigated. In this example the user initially selects a parameter their Zodiac sign of Aquarius to control the content that is shown or otherwise delivered to them. When they select control to have information associated with the web site added to their personalized home page the value for the selected parameter may also be sent to the service provider for inclusion in their personalized page so that when they later receive information it will have the appropriate customized information associated with it e.g. a horoscope for Aquarius . If they select control before identifying the related parameter they may be prompted to provide the parameter in a manner similar to the next example in display .

Controls and may take a standardized form so that users may more readily identify the controls when they are browsing. For example a service provider may supply a number of standard images for controls and where the images follow a standard color format and layout and may also include a logo or other information associated with the information provider. In this manner someone who has started a personalized page can readily see when they are at a web site that will support the addition of content to such a page. An example of such a common labeling approach is the Google Checkout program.

The third display display shows another manner for configuring content selected for display on a personalized home page. Display shows a lottery page by which the user can choose to have various daily winning numbers shown on their personalized home page. In this example values for particular parameters are added after the user selects control . In particular a pop up box may be displayed over the web page allowing the user to select which lottery numbers they would like to receive on their personalized page or pages. The pop up box may be generated for example using Javascript code created by a remote system for placement on the page as described below and for operation with the remote system using AJAX techniques or other similar programming techniques. Other parameters may be defined in a similar manner for other sorts of content.

The pop up box may be generated for example by code associated with the control which may be code obtained by the author of the web page from the service provider. For example as explained in more detail below with respect to a web author may go to a web site associated with the information provider and may use a web form to enter information about the feed they want to have accessed by personalized home pages set up by the service provider. As one example the user may enter URLs for the particular information along with formatting information such as content to be displayed in a display bar for a module and content to be displayed when a module is selected by a user and be expanded.

Display provides another example showing how a user may provide input to receive customized information. Here the user is a bus rider and wants to have a convenient schedule reminder pop up on her cell phone that she can look at while she is waiting for the bus or getting ready to leave work. For example the service could continually update her device from a bus schedule with the next scheduled stop time. The system could also receive real time status information about her bus and provide an estimate of the next stop time from that information.

In display control is a drop down box that lists all of the bus routes for a particular area the area can be explicitly supplied by the user or can be determined by looking at a location identifier such as that derived from GPS data associated with the device . Here the user has selected route A and display confirms for the user that that route runs from Stadium Village to Dinkytown. In addition the application shows a simplified map of the route with each of the stops along the route. Using for example a direction button on a cell phone or working from a desktop computer and then later synching the content as described below the user can identify a morning bus stop here stop 4 and an afternoon bus stop here stop 6 . When the user selects control the parameters will be sent to the information provider and associated with the user s personalized page. The user can also be prompted for any parameters that have not yet been entered.

At display the user has finished surfing and has chosen to review her personalized page. General information from the service provider such as an identifier and a search box are shown at the top of the page. Also a location identifier reflecting Minneapolis as the user s location is also displayed and can be modified by selection of a change link. An update box is displayed to confirm for the user that four new modules have been added to their page and information from each of the modules is also shown. A previously added weather module is also displayed. The order of the modules is generally the order in which they were added. However selection box is shown to indicated that a user has selected the lottery module when such a selection is active the user may employ a navigation button to move the particular module up or down in the display so as to further customize the page. Such alterations may occur by simple drag and drop mechanisms when the editing occurs on a desktop computer or by other mechanisms on devices that do not support drag and drop operations. Finally the user may select an update control to confirm any alterations to the page so that they are reflected the next time the user accesses the page.

Each of the modules on display may be made expandable to provide easy navigation while still providing extensive information. For example The Daily Patent may simply display a title and a single line of information in its contracted form but may display more information such as a full factoid and figures in its expanded form. Likewise a weather module may show same day weather when contracted and a 5 day forecast with updated radar map when expanded. Where a device does not support contraction of modules an expanded module may simply be left open in its expanded form. Advertising may also be displayed in display either inside or outside the expanded modules. The advertisements may be selected to be particularly relevant to the user by employing Google s Adsense service or other services for placing targeted advertisements.

In the figure the system includes a mobile device and computer e.g. laptop or desktop associated with a user such as by the user s logging into a central system on the devices a web page server and a service provider all communicating through one or more networks such as the internet . The mobile device and computer are employed in manners similar to those discussed above. The web page server is operated by a third party such as independent web page designer. The service provider may include a system such as that provided by Google with the ability of users to log in and have access to numerous services for free or for a nominal cost.

Various arrows show an exemplary flow of information among the various components. In the example the flow begins with Arrow A which represents efforts by a web designer to add a control to her web page . For example the designer may produce a blog that is updated daily with interesting or not so interesting information that the designer may want to make available to other people. The designer may want to expand his or her reach beyond merely users who navigate to the blog. The designer may log into service provider and fill out a web form providing information necessary for a module to be set up. For example the user may define an XML format to be sent from their web page including information that is to be displayed in a control in both compressed and expanded formats. An exemplary form of such interaction is shown below in .

Later in time a user of mobile device may be bored e.g. waiting for a friend and surfing the web and may come upon web page as shown by Arrow B. The user may find the blog on the web page to be interesting and may recognize control and choose to select control so as to have a feed from the blog added to their personalized page. Selection of the control may redirect the device to service provider as shown by Arrow C so that identifying information for the user and the page may be obtained by the service provider in updating the user s page. The device may then be redirected back to the page .

Alternatively or in addition information may be transmitted from server to service provider Arrow C . Such information may include configuration information for the delivery of content. In addition server will periodically submit information to service provider whenever the user chooses to view her personalized page. Such information delivery may take various forms such as a request from the service provider and a reply in XML format or alternatively a Really Simple Syndication RSS feed. The delivery may also occur directly from server to device with formatting of the page on device rather than by information provider .

The user may then arrive at her home and log onto her home PC. Her PC home page may be her personalized page so that her computer seeks information from information provider or other servers as shown by Arrow D. The user may be shown an updated page that includes information associate with page or may alternatively be shown a message indicating that new information has been added to the user s personalized mobile page and asking the user if they would also like to add the information to their PC home page if the user has logged in . For example a user may have certain large modules that she does not want on her mobile page and may have other modules such as bus schedules and traffic information that she does not care to have on her main desktop page.

Arrow E shows a transmission by the user confirming changes to one or both of her pages. This will cause the information provider to update the list of modules supported by each of the user s PC home page and mobile home page. Coordination may occur between other devices also such as between a home PC and a work PC or an individual computer when used during the day versus when used in the evening. The user may then log on with her mobile device and be alerted to the changes as shown by Figure F. As explained in more detail below the changes to personalized home pages may be made at either device and common elements between the main page and the mobile page may be updated accordingly and coordinated.

At box a user visits a web site that has been populated in box and selects a control. Information identifying the user such as a session ID linked to a user account when a user logged in and identifying the content to be placed in a module such as a pointer to retrieve XML information along with parameters for obtaining the information may then be provided to the service provider such as in the form of a browser redirect for the user.

At box the information provider associates the session ID or other information e.g. information stored in a cookie with the user account. The association may occur immediately such as when the user has already logged in during a session or has kept a cookie on their device to assist in identifying themselves to the system. The association may also be delayed such as when a user has not logged in and there is no other information to identify the user. In such a case a session ID may be stored and may then be linked up with the user if and when the user ultimately logs in.

A particular web document is associated with the control at box and a reference is added to the user s home page at box . The web document may be various forms of items at a target URL accessible on the internet such as addresses that return XML data or mark up code in response to an HTTP request. The reference which may take any appropriate form for allowing content associated with the control to be displayed on a user s personalized page may simply include a pointer to be included in the personalized page. For example the web document may include a URL containing certain parameters including arguments for providing a personalized page with target information e.g. a URL to a weather site that includes a zip code for the user . Such a URL may be added to the HTML code for a web page in a static manner or the page code may be generated dynamically upon a request for the page from a user.

By this process a user may select a web control in the form of a button whose selection generates a message to an information provider that results in web content associated with the control to be associated with the user s web page. The associations may be made by the information provider determining an identity of the user such as by a log in process and identifying the content to associate with the user s web page such as by information provided by action of the user s application or browser upon the user s selection of the control. For example the selection of the control may cause information identifying the content to be associated with the user s page and also containing personalization parameters e.g. the person s zodiac sign or bus route as indicated above to be included with the user s personalized page.

At box a webpage developer requests and receives a control from a server such as a server at an internet information provider such as Google. The server may be a single server or multiple servers operating together to provide various forms of information to users who access the information provider. At box the server generates a control for the webpage developer. For example the server may present a web form to the webpage developer by which the webpage developer enters certain information relating to the data that they would like other users to see on personalized pages. For example the webpage developer may identify an address for an RSS feed or other sort of information delivery mechanism and personalized pages may access information from such services when the personalized pages are formed.

The server may then generate markup language code for a control box in the form of a webpage button that can be selected by a user to have such information delivered to their personalized page. That code may be delivered to the web page developer for example by displaying the code to permit the webpage developer to cut and paste the code into her webpage. Alternatively the web page developer may simply write such code such as by referring to a standard API published by the information provider.

Later in time another person may be browsing the web. That person may learn of the various services provided by the information provider and may come to register with the information provider box . At the time of registration or at a later time the user may log into their account box and may browse the Internet until they come upon the webpage authored by the original webpage developer. They may notice from a message on the webpage that particular content relating to the page may be provided to them on a personalized page so that they will not need to come back to the webpage each time they want updated information. They may also see the webpage control on the webpage and may select the control box to have information related to the page delivered to their personalized page such as in the form of an RSS feed. Selection of the control may cause the client device associated with the user to start a process for associating the user s personalized page with the particular content.

In one example the control may redirect the user s browser box to contact the server box . The URL supplied by the browser in contacting the server may include certain parameters such as information identifying the content to be delivered to the user s personalized page such as an address for an RSS feed or other information. Upon being contacted in this manner the server may parse the message received from the browser box and may extract information for identifying the user of the client device and also the information relating to the webpage. The server may then use the information relating to the web page to identify information associated with the control box to be incorporated into the user s personalized web page. The server may also identify the user box . The user s identity may be employed to place appropriate references on the user s personalized page so that subsequent accesses to that page will access information associated with the control box .

At some later time the webpage developer may provide updated content to her webpage such as by submitting a new blog entry and the user or another entity may contact the server to have a personalized page displayed. The server may then generate the personalized page box by which the personalized page may make reference to the webpage developer s page and the code for the personalized page may be transmitted to the client device and displayed there box . By this exemplary process web page developers can easily extend the reach of their content users can organize and access information more easily and with less need for browsing and information providers may provide better service to their users and also obtain additional avenues for presenting information including in the form of targeted promotional materials to all sorts of users.

System includes a mobile device associated with a user and a fixed computer such as a desktop or laptop computer that may also be associated with the user. Computer is also provided and represents various third party servers that may provide information for review by users such as the user of mobile device and fixed computer . The various devices may communicate through a network such as the intranet .

Service provider may coordinate the provision and exchange of information between the other components in system and may correspond for example to the servers of information provider in . Service provider may be made up of one or more servers located in one or more locations. In addition service provider may provide other services not described here such as provision of search results traffic information mapping information and other similar information.

Service provider may communicate with other components through interface . Interface may include for example one or more Web servers or other components configured to receive requests through Internet and to provide responsive information to such requests. Control manager may be configured to associate various requests with particular controls displayed on web pages and with information to be delivered to personalized homepages associated with those controls. For example control manager may include a control database that correlates control identification numbers with information to which the controls are directed. For example when a user selects a control an identification number for the control may be provided to information provider and the identification number may be looked up to determine what information should be added to the user s personalized homepage. Alternatively actual mark up code may be supplied when the control is selected or the code may be referenced in another location. In addition a control code database may store additional code to be accessed by personalized homepages or other information needed to associate selection of controls with particular information to be referenced by personalized homepages.

Personalized homepage manager may track the information stored in a number of homepages associated with various users. The users may be identified or unidentified. Specifically an identified user is someone who can be linked to a particular user account such as a user who has logged into the information provider . An unidentified user is someone who has not identified themselves so that they can only be identified anonymously such as through the use of session IDs cookies or other similar mechanisms. When an unidentified user selects a control that control may be associated with a session ID or cookie for the user s device through tracking database . In one example tracking database may be a flat file database that correlates cookies with identification numbers for all controls selected by a device associated with the cookie other implementations may also be used. In general tracking database may store information temporarily until the identity of a user associated with a cookie or session ID can be determined such as by the user logging in on their device.

A user database may track modules or other information to be associated with personal homepages when the identity of the users is known. For example the first two entries in the user database show the selection of particular information by users who have logged in and that is associated with a cookie or other device or session identifier. The user database may also contain information for unidentified users. For example the last three entries in user database correlate a device identifier with information for a personalized homepage but do not yet have an associated user identifier. When a login occurs on a device associated with the identified cookies the user identifier may be added to the database . Also when a user logs in a connection may be made between a cookie associated with the device that is logging on and controls in tracking database .

The homepage information identified in the user database by the label pointer may take various forms such as URLs or other information that allows a personalized homepage to access various information providers. The homepage database may store additional information about each user s personalized homepage such as color schemes layout geographic location and other parameters of the homepage.

Homepage builder may be employed to assemble a personalized homepage when a user who has identified herself makes such a request. For example homepage builder may access homepage database and user database using a user identification number as a key. The homepage builder may extract information about the desired homepage layout and may also extract all pointers or other identifiers associated with modules on the homepage. By conventional mechanisms the homepage builder may assemble this information to generate markup code for the personalized homepage that may then be transmitted to the requesting device for display by the device.

Cookie tracker may permit identified users to select modules for inclusion in their personalized homepages and may also permit for the association of those modules with particular user accounts after an unidentified user has identified herself. When a user selects a control and is directed to information provider cookie tracker may look for a cookie file having a predetermined name on the user s device and retrieve a cookie from the file if such a file exists. Information about particular cookies may be stored in a cookie database . A cookie may take any appropriate form that permits identification of the device such as the form of an a numeric indicator that is unique or substantially unique to the device. Cookie interpreter may receive any identified cookies and associate them with a selected control for provision to personalized homepage manager . For example a mobile device may submit a control number as part of a URL and may also store a cookie so that the information provider associates the cookie with the control number so that a module associated with the number is added to a personalized home page for the user of the device.

Cookie maker may produce cookies when a device is found to not yet have a cookie relating to information provider . Cookie maker may select cookies in any appropriate manner such as by indexing through a body of numbers or alphanumeric presentations or by other mechanisms. The cookies may be generated by cookie maker or may be obtained from cookie database .

In one exemplary mode of operation a user may identify a webpage on server and may select a control displayed on the webpage so as to have information such as a daily blog update delivered on their personalized homepage. Such a selection by the user may cause information provider to create a cookie and deliver it to mobile device . The information provider may also store the cookie and information about the control in tracking database . The user may subsequently select other controls on other web pages and the information provider may also store information from those controls along with the cookie. Later the user may log into the information provider and the information provider may then associate the cookie with the user ID. The information provider may check tracking database for any records associated with the cookie for the user s device and may then associate the control information for each such record with the user s personalized home page. Subsequent accessing of the personalized home page by the user may result in information relating to the selected controls being delivered to the user.

At box a process of identifying the user associated with the device begins with a login by a user of the device. The log in may take a standard form such as by the provision of a User ID e.g. an e mail address and a password. As part of the log in the session ID may also be obtained and associated with the log in box and the user s personalized home page may then be associated with modules relating to Controls A and B. The user s mobile page may be updated to include references to those modules box .

In addition in manners described below other of the user s home pages may also be updated. For example the modules added to the user s mobile page may be added automatically to the user s other pages. Alternatively the user may be prompted to select which of modules relating to controls A and B they would like added to their other page. In addition certain filters may be applied so that some modules do not get shared. For example modules requiring graphics that are not available on a mobile device can be filtered out from that device while modules that are uniquely mobile in character may be filtered out from a desktop personalized home page. In addition updates from one side may be applied to the other side using predetermined rules such as acceptance of the most recent change in a group of changes or the application of all changes in the group of changes seriatim.

At box a user logs into a server on their fixed computer and the server identifies the user box . Such actions may involve a typical log on process. The user may also configure a personalized home page for their desktop computer such as the Google personalized home page. The configuration process may involve selecting controls associated with particular modules box to add those modules to the personalized home page which the server may then update box . Through this process the user may have a home page that includes information that is particularly useful to them.

At box the user then leaves her house and begins browsing the internet from her smart phone. At box she finds a blog that is very interesting to her and she selects a control displayed with the blog that adds a Module A daily blog delivery to her personalized home page. At this point the server does not know who the user is and thus generates a session ID for the mobile client and associates the information for Module A with that session ID box . The user then moves to another web site and again selects a control box so that the server associates information related to the selected control Module B with the session ID for the mobile client device. The user now has two additional modules but they are not yet associated with the user.

The modules become associated with the user when the user logs in to the server box and the server identifies the user box . The server may then associate the particular session ID with the person s user ID so that the module information stored with the session ID can then be connected to the user ID so that the user s personalized page displays the various modules box . The user s mobile page may then be updated box and displayed box including by adding modules like those shown in box from the fixed client home page. The user may shown a list of possible modules to add to their mobile home page such as modules previously selected on their fixed client. The new mobile modules may likewise be added to the user s desktop home page either immediately or later upon the user logging into the server box from the fixed client and then being able to review the updated display box .

The identification of the mobile client may occur in other ways also. For example after a user has configured a fixed home page the user may make a selection to have a text message such as an SMS message sent to his mobile device. The message may include a URL or other similar mechanism that may direct the user s device to a particular address and may also include identifying information for the user or the user s device. In this way a user can minimize the amount of information they need to have using their mobile device and can easily configure the content for the mobile device using a desktop computer and then easily link the mobile device to the user.

The user then leaves home and reaches the Google Mobile Search site on her mobile device at display . Instead of entering a search she selects the log in control and is taken to display where she can enter her email address and password identification information. In other implementations other information may be used to authenticate a user. Upon logging in the system generating the displays recognizes her as someone already having an account via her user ID provided in the form of an e mail address and also as having a personalized home page associated with that account. The system may also note that she has not configured any modules for her personalized mobile page.

As a result the process will begin actions to provide the user with the opportunity to populate a mobile personalized page with various modules. Such interaction is shown in display where each of the modules associated with the user s desktop page i.e. weather top stories and stocks and also general modules thought to be particularly relevant for mobile use e.g. traffic news sports are shown. The user may be provided an opportunity to select which of these categories they would like displayed as part of their personalized mobile page. When the user selects set pointers to such content such as URLs containing necessary parameters may be included in the user s personalized mobile page. In this example the user s personalized mobile page shows weather and traffic information while its personalized desktop page shows top stories weather and the stock news.

Display shows an alternative display for permitting a user to select modules for inclusion on a mobile page. The various available modules e.g. those on the desktop page plus others directed to mobile use may be presented in a simple list where each member of the list is associated with a URL. Each option will be displayed as Add module . When a user selects one of the choices e.g. by navigating using a directional pad on a cellphone and then pressing a selection key it changes to Module added without an option to remove. The module added reference may alternatively be made selectable so that users can remove certain modules form the mobile page.

Display shows the final result for the mobile home page where the page has inherited the location of the desktop page so that the user does not need to enter a location on their mobile device. In addition the mobile page has picked up the weather module from the desktop page and has added a traffic module. Depending on rules implemented in the system the traffic module might or might not be presented to the user for inclusion on their desktop page the next time they log in from a desktop computer. For example because traffic has been identified here as a mobile specific module it may not be made available at all unless the user takes explicit actions to add it to their desktop page.

Various other techniques may be used to identify appropriate modules for a mobile page. For example certain modules such as graphics intensive modules may be inappropriate for display on the mobile device and may be eliminated from the class of modules on the desktop page that are made available to the mobile page. In addition two different forms of a particular module may also be provided with a less graphics intensive module being delivered to a mobile device and a more graphics intensive version of the module being delivered to a fixed computer.

As explained above differences between modules on a desktop page and those on a mobile pages may be resolved in various ways such as by predetermined resolution rules. For example if a desktop page and a mobile page both display stock ticker information and the user adds a new ticker symbol on one page that change may automatically be replicated over to the other page. Other information might not be updated such as location information because a user may want to temporarily change the location on a mobile device e.g. while on a business trip but not make the same change to their desktop page. Overlapping deletions and additions of information may be handled by predetermined synchronization rules also. In addition a single page may be stored for both mobile and desktop display with tags in the mark up code identifying which portions of the code are to be rendered for each type of display.

Display shows a desktop page containing modules for top stories local weather and stock market information. The user then makes a selection to configure a corresponding mobile page and display is shown. The display contains two main areas an area displaying a list of all modules currently on the desktop page along with mobile specific modules like traffic Soduku for the bored now and sports scores. The user may move certain modules over to the mobile page in a variety of ways. For example the available modules are shown as hyperlinks on which the user may click to have the corresponding module added to the mobile page. The hyperlink status has been removed from weather and traffic because they have already been added. Alternatively the user could drag modules from one side to the other and drop them or use the arrow controls to move selected modules back and forth.

The right hand side of display provides a user with a preview of the modules displayed on their mobile device. Standard transcoding techniques may be used to display the content to a resolution and using a color depth that is available on the device. The preview display may be beneficial in permitting a user to see whether particular modules will look good or bad on their mobile device and to easily include or exclude them on that basis. Separate pulldown controls are made available so that a user may easily identify a make and model for their mobile device. The system may separately store parameters associated with a number of mobile devices to assist in the process of rendering the content on the preview display. In addition the preview display may be made interactive so that a user may expand and contract modules so as to see how they look in all forms. Such actions may occur by rendering the content for a particular display or by associating controls on the modules with links that cause the preview to be re rendered each time a change is made.

The mobile displays and show actions by a user on their mobile device after they have configured their personalized mobile page. Display shows a typical search screen while screen shows a log in screen like those shown in . When the user logs in the system may look to their account and see that they have a configured personalized mobile page and may display the page as display . Certain confirmation screens may also be shown such as a screen after the user has logged in to tell the user that changes have been made to content associated with their mobile device. In addition if a cookie has previously been created for the device and the user has logged in so that the cookie has been associated with the user s account the personalized page may be shown immediately using the cookie to associated the device with the personalized mobile page.

At displays and the user visits a search screen and then logs in. Display provides a confirmation for the user. The confirmation may take many forms but in this example the display asks the user to confirm whether he wants the newly added modules to be added to his personalized desktop page in addition to his personalized mobile page. The user in this example answers in the affirmative so all the modules are shown in the end in both desktop display and mobile display .

Various other arrangements may be made to coordinate updates to mobile and desktop personalized pages. Six examples may provide additional illustration of such approaches and are similar to those shown in . In example 1 a user has not configured mobile modules on his PC and when he logs in to a system on his phone the system prompts him to choose which mobile friendly modules he would like to add from his personalized desktop page. In example 2 a user has already configured her modules on her PC so when she logs in she is shown her already configured page. In example 3 the user has configured his page on his PC and has a cookie based page on his mobile device when he logs on from the device the system merges the sets of modules and displays a message communicating the action. In example 4 the user has not configured on his PC but has a cookie based page on his mobile device we he logs on form the device the system copies the cookie based settings to become the logged on settings for the user s account. The user may click to add more modules and may be shown a list in which the modules on his PC are highlighted. An alert may be shown on the PC display to alert remind the user about the change. In example 5 the user is logged in on his phone. If a user adds modules the system may add the modules to his desktop page and may provide an alert message for viewing from the PC. If the user adds a module to the PC the module or a corresponding module may be displayed on the page for the mobile device or a control for adding the module may be displayed on the mobile device. If the user deletes a module on his PC the mobile modules may be left untouched. In example 6 the user has a cookie based mobile page and logs in so that the system copies the cookie based settings to the user s account for a mobile page and can use it to suggest additional modules or provide it as a default when the user logs in on his PC.

When the user logs in the central system associates the session ID with the user ID and attempts to correlate the newly selected modules with the modules that are already a part of the personalized desktop page. In this example the default rule is to make each of the personalized desktop page and the personalized mobile page contain a superset of the modules selected either on the desktop computer or on the mobile device. In other implementations the system can show only the cookie based modules on the mobile device personalized page. Display announces to the user that a desktop page has been located for them and asks them to confirm that they would like to combine the newly selected modules into the desktop page and to have the modules in the desktop page be part of their mobile page. In other implementations the user need not be asked to confirm alterations to the mobile or desktop pages. If the user answers in the negative alternative approaches can be taken such as by keeping separate desktop and mobile pages. Display shows the result of the actions on the desktop page while display shows the result on the mobile page with each of the modules expanded .

In the mobile displays display represents the addition of content form the New York Times to a user s page while display represents the addition of a NASA picture of the day. Displays and represent respective a user s navigation to a search page followed by a log in with the system operating the search page. Display shows a confirmation message by which the user is provided the opportunity to state whether they would like the various added information shared between their two different personalized pages and display shows the updated display with the New York Times and the NASA pciture of the day added to the weather and stock modules previously on the page. The Top Stories module may have been removed in favor of an alternative display or may occur lower on display . 

Display includes an input area and an output area . The input area The input area includes a name field and a user ID field which in this example is a user s e mail account. These fields have been pre populated based on the user s log in with appropriate credentials. A pointer entry box provides a place for the user to identify a location for content that is associated with their web page on which they intend to put their control and to which they want personalized web pages to point. The pointer may take many various forms including in forms other than a URL.

The output area may provide custom mark up code generated using the information entered by the user to make a button control on a web page. For example the button may be generated using mark up code that causes a user to be redirected to an information provider when they select the button and that passes to the information provider certain information associated with the control and with the content that is to be referenced by a module on a personalized page. The information passed to the information provider may include for example the associated URL for code to direct the personalized page where to obtain code for the module. In addition parameters for the content may be included as may other relevant information.

The code in window may represent the mark up code generated for inclusion in a web developer s page. The code when properly incorporated e.g. by cutting and pasting may result in the page displaying a button or similar control whose selection causes a visitor s associated personalized page or pages to receive content associated with the control such as by the approaches described above.

In addition to the information shown here the web developer may define other appropriate parameters for the information feed with which the control is to be associated. For example the developer may identify other objects on the page such as the route pull down menu on display in from which variables should be retrieved in establishing information tat should be provided to a user s personalized page.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example various forms of the flows shown above may be used with steps re ordered added or removed. Also although several applications of the payment systems and methods have been described it should be recognized that numerous other applications are contemplated. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

