---

title: Dispersions of olefin block copolymers
abstract: A dispersion and methods for forming a dispersion that includes a catalytic linear multi-block olefin interpolymer, and at least one dispersing agent, wherein the catalytic linear multi-block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment is disclosed. Various applications of the dispersion are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08785531&OS=08785531&RS=08785531
owner: Dow Global Technologies LLC
number: 08785531
owner_city: Midland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070702
---
This application claims benefit to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 818 911 filed on Jul. 6 2006.

The invention relates generally to ethylene olefin block interpolymers dispersions of ethylene olefin block interpolymers and products made from the block interpolymers.

Aqueous dispersions of a thermoplastic resin of various types are known in the art and have been used in a wide variety of fields. For example when an aqueous dispersion is coated and dried on a surface of a substrate such as paper fiber wood metal or plastic molded article the resin coating formed will provide the substrate with water resistance oil resistance chemical resistance corrosion resistance and heat sealability. An aqueous medium is advantageous compared to an organic dispersion medium in view of common hazards such as flammability working environment handling convenience and the like.

Conventional aqueous dispersions of a thermoplastic resin have been produced either by a process wherein a polymerizable monomer which is the resin raw material is polymerized by emulsion polymerization in an aqueous medium in the presence of a dispersing agent or by a process wherein a molten thermoplastic resin and an aqueous medium and optionally a dispersing agent are mixed by applying shearing force. The former process is associated with the disadvantage of the limited number of the polymerizable monomers that can be used and hence the variety of the aqueous dispersions of the thermoplastic resin that can be produced is limited. The former process also suffers from complicated control of the polymerization reaction as well as intricate equipment. On the other hand the latter process is applicable to a wide variety of resins in relatively simple equipment.

Coatings and articles produced via aqueous dispersions of typical ethylene copolymers lack the heat resistance and compression set properties needed for many applications. For example frothed foams made via the frothing and drying of aqueous dispersions of homogeneous ethylene octene copolymers exhibit the softness required for hygiene and fabric backing applications but lack the heat resistance required for shipment during the summer months. In addition coatings and foams to be used in the interior of an automobile typically require heat resistance to at least 60 C. In this environment frothed foams based on homogeneous low crystallinity ethylene copolymers will not retain mechanical properties such as compression set.

Accordingly there exists a need for dispersions and foams formed from ethylene and propylene based interpolymers having improved heat resistance and mechanical properties including compression set.

In one aspect embodiments disclosed herein relate to a dispersion and methods for forming a dispersion that includes a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer and at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment.

In another aspect embodiments disclosed herein relate to a polyolefin froth foam formed from a dispersion that includes a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer and at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment.

In another aspect embodiments disclosed herein relate to a cellulose based article especially having a specific volume of less than 3 cc gm that includes a cellulose based composition and an applied compound wherein the applied compound at the time of application includes a dispersion formed of a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer and at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment wherein the cellulose based article has at least one of a water resistance value of less than about 10 g m 120 seconds as measured via the Cobb test and an oil and grease resistance value of at least 9 as measured using the Kit test at an exposure time of 15 seconds.

In another aspect embodiments disclosed herein relate to an article formed by a process that includes impregnating a fibrous structure with a compound the compound including a dispersion the dispersion formed from a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer and at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment and removing at least a portion of the water from the impregnated fibrous structure.

In another aspect embodiments disclosed herein relate to a toner composition including a dispersion the dispersion including a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer and at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment and at least one selected from the group consisting of a colorant and a magnetic pigment wherein the dispersion has an average volume diameter particle size from about 0.3 to about 8.0 microns.

In another aspect embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method for forming a heat sealable coating on a substrate including applying a dispersion to a substrate the dispersion including a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment and removing at least a portion of a liquid in the dispersion to form a first layer.

In another aspect embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method to make a long fiber concentrate that includes fibers and a thermoplastic resin that involves the steps of coating continuous fibers with a dispersion wherein the dispersion includes a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment to form thermoplastic coated continuous fiber strands heating the thermoplastic coated continuous fiber strands chopping the dried thermoplastic coated continuous fiber strands forming dried long fiber concentrate pellets and isolating dried long fiber concentrate pellets.

In another aspect embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method to make a long fiber concentrate including fibers and a thermoplastic resin involving the steps of coating chopped long fibers with a dispersion wherein the dispersion includes a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer includes at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment to form thermoplastic coated chopped fiber pellets heating the coated chopped long fiber concentrate pellets and isolating dried long fiber concentrate pellets.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

In one aspect embodiments of the invention relate to an aqueous dispersion having a base polymeric component. In other aspects embodiments disclosed herein relate to an aqueous dispersion having a multi block olefin interpolymer component and a stabilizing agent component. In other aspects embodiments disclosed herein relate to an aqueous dispersion where the multi block olefin interpolymer is an ethylene olefin block interpolymer a propylene olefin block interpolymer or combinations thereof.

Dispersions formed in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein may include a base polymer which may comprise at least one multi block olefin interpolymer and a stabilizing agent which may comprise at least one polar polyolefin. The multi block olefin interpolymer in some embodiments may be propylene based interpolymers ethylene based interpolymers or combinations thereof.

Dispersions formed in accordance with other embodiments disclosed herein may include a base polymer which may include at least one multi block olefin interpolymer a secondary polymeric component which may include at least one thermoplastic polyolefin and a stabilizing agent.

Benefits derived from a multi block olefin interpolymer may also be realized where the multi block interpolymer is used as a minority component in a dispersion. Accordingly dispersions formed in accordance with yet other embodiments disclosed herein may include a base polymer which may include at least one non polar thermoplastic polyolefin a secondary polymeric component which may include at least one multi block olefin interpolymer and a stabilizing agent.

Dispersions formed in accordance with other embodiments may also include fillers additives and adjutants. Based on the above description of embodiments of the dispersions the individual components and embodiments of the dispersions disclosed herein will be described below.

As described above embodiments of the dispersions disclosed herein may include a polymeric component that may include at least one multi block olefin interpolymer. The following definitions are provided to distinguish a multi block olefin interpolymer from other olefin polymers.

 Polymer means a polymeric compound prepared by polymerizing monomers whether of the same or a different type. The generic term polymer embraces the terms homopolymer copolymer terpolymer as well as interpolymer. 

 Interpolymer means a polymer prepared by the polymerization of at least two different types of monomers. The generic term interpolymer includes the term copolymer which is usually employed to refer to a polymer prepared from two different monomers as well as the term terpolymer which is usually employed to refer to a polymer prepared from three different types of monomers . It also encompasses polymers made by polymerizing four or more types of monomers.

The terms ethylene olefin interpolymer and propylene olefin interpolymer refer to polymers with ethylene or propylene respectively being the majority mole fraction of the whole polymer. In some embodiments the majority monomer may comprise at least 50 mole percent of the whole polymer at least 60 mole percent in other embodiments at least 70 mole percent in other embodiments and at least 80 mole percent in yet other embodiments. The remainder of the whole polymer comprising at least one comonomer. In some embodiments ethylene olefin interpolymers include ethylene at a content of greater than about 80 mole percent and an olefin content of equal to or less than about 20 mole percent.

The term crystalline if employed refers to a polymer or a segment that possesses a first order transition or crystalline melting point Tm as determined by differential scanning calorimetry DSC or equivalent technique. The term may be used interchangeably with the term semi crystalline . The term amorphous refers to a polymer lacking a crystalline melting point as determined by differential scanning calorimetry DSC or equivalent technique.

The term multi block copolymer or segmented copolymer refers to a polymer comprising two or more chemically distinct regions or segments referred to as blocks preferably joined in a linear manner that is a polymer comprising chemically differentiated units which are joined end to end with respect to polymerized ethylenic functionality rather than in pendent or grafted fashion. In certain embodiments the blocks differ in the amount or type of comonomer incorporated therein the density the amount of crystallinity the crystallite size attributable to a polymer of such composition the type or degree of tacticity isotactic or syndiotactic regio regularity or regio irregularity the amount of branching including long chain branching or hyper branching the homogeneity or any other chemical or physical property. The multi block copolymers are characterized by unique distributions of polydispersity index PDI or M M block length distribution and or block number distribution due to the unique process making of the copolymers. More specifically when produced in a continuous process embodiments of the polymers may possess a PDI ranging from about 1.7 to about 8 from about 1.7 to about 3.5 in other embodiments from about 1.7 to about 2.5 in other embodiments and from about 1.8 to about 2.5 or from about 1.8 to about 2.1 in yet other embodiments. When produced in a batch or semi batch process embodiments of the polymers may possess a PDI ranging from about 1 to about 2.9 from about 1.3 to about 2.5 in other embodiments from about 1.4 to about 2 in other embodiments and from about 1.4 to about 1.8 in yet other embodiments.

One example of the multi block olefin interpolymer is an ethylene olefin block interpolymer. Another example of the multi block olefin interpolymer is a propylene olefin interpolymer. The following description focuses on the interpolymer as having ethylene as the majority monomer but applies in a similar fashion to propylene based multi block interpolymers with regard to general polymer characteristics.

The ethylene olefin multi block interpolymers hereinafter ethylene olefin interpolymer or variations thereof comprise ethylene and one or more co polymerizable olefin comonomers in polymerized form characterized by multiple i.e. two or more blocks or segments of two or more polymerized monomer units differing in chemical or physical properties block interpolymer preferably a multi block interpolymer. In some embodiments the multi block interpolymer may be represented by the following formula AB where n is at least 1 preferably an integer greater than 1 such as 2 3 4 5 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 or higher A represents a hard block or segment and B represents a soft block or segment. Preferably A s and B s are linked in a linear fashion not in a branched or a star fashion. Hard segments refer to blocks of polymerized units in which ethylene is present in an amount greater than 95 weight percent in some embodiments and in other embodiments greater than 98 weight percent. In other words the comonomer content in the hard segments is less than 5 weight percent in some embodiments and in other embodiments less than 2 weight percent of the total weight of the hard segments. In some embodiments the hard segments comprise all or substantially all ethylene. Soft segments on the other hand refer to blocks of polymerized units in which the comonomer content is greater than 5 weight percent of the total weight of the soft segments in some embodiments greater than 8 weight percent greater than 10 weight percent or greater than 15 weight percent in various other embodiments. In some embodiments the comonomer content in the soft segments may be greater than 20 weight percent greater than 25 eight percent greater than 30 weight percent greater than 35 weight percent greater than 40 weight percent greater than 45 weight percent greater than 50 weight percent or greater than 60 weight percent in various other embodiments.

In some embodiments A blocks and B blocks are randomly distributed along the polymer chain. In other words the block copolymers do not have a structure like AAA AA BBB BB

In other embodiments the block copolymers do not have a third block. In still other embodiments neither block A nor block B comprises two or more segments or sub blocks such as a tip segment.

The ethylene olefin interpolymers are characterized by an average block index ABI ranging from greater than zero to about 1.0 and a molecular weight distribution M M greater than about 1.3. The average block index ABI is the weight average of the block index BI for each of the polymer fractions obtained in preparative TREF from 20 C. and 110 C. with an increment of 5 C. ABI where BIis the block index for the ifraction of the ethylene olefin interpolymer obtained in preparative TREF and wis the weight percentage of the ifraction.

Similarly the square root of the second moment about the mean hereinafter referred to as the second moment weight average block index may be defined as follows 

For each polymer fraction BI is defined by one of the two following equations both of which give the same BI value 

Tis the ATREF elution temperature for a random copolymer of the same composition having an ethylene mole fraction of P and molecular weight as the multi block interpolymer. Tmay be calculated from the mole fraction of ethylene measured by NMR using the following equation where and are two constants which may be determined by a calibration using a number of well characterized preparative TREF fractions of a broad composition random copolymer and or well characterized random ethylene copolymers with narrow composition. It should be noted that and may vary from instrument to instrument. Moreover one would need to create an appropriate calibration curve with the polymer composition of interest using appropriate molecular weight ranges and comonomer type for the preparative TREF fractions and or random copolymers used to create the calibration. There is a slight molecular weight effect. If the calibration curve is obtained from similar molecular weight ranges such effect would be essentially negligible. In some embodiments random ethylene copolymers and or preparative TREF fractions of random copolymers satisfy the following relationship 237.83 0.639

The above calibration equation relates the mole fraction of ethylene P to the analytical TREF elution temperature T for narrow composition random copolymers and or preparative TREF fractions of broad composition random copolymers. Tis the ATREF temperature for a random copolymer of the same composition and having an ethylene mole fraction of P. Tmay be calculated from LnP T . Conversely Pis the ethylene mole fraction for a random copolymer of the same composition and having an ATREF temperature of T which may be calculated from Ln P T .

Once the block index BI for each preparative TREF fraction is obtained the weight average block index ABI for the whole polymer may be calculated. In some embodiments ABI is greater than zero but less than about 0.4 or from about 0.1 to about 0.3. In other embodiments ABI is greater than about 0.4 and up to about 1.0. Preferably ABI should be in the range of from about 0.4 to about 0.7 from about 0.5 to about 0.7 or from about 0.6 to about 0.9. In some embodiments ABI is in the range of from about 0.3 to about 0.9 from about 0.3 to about 0.8 or from about 0.3 to about 0.7 from about 0.3 to about 0.6 from about 0.3 to about 0.5 or from about 0.3 to about 0.4. In other embodiments ABI is in the range of from about 0.4 to about 1.0 from about 0.5 to about 1.0 or from about 0.6 to about 1.0 from about 0.7 to about 1.0 from about 0.8 to about 1.0 or from about 0.9 to about 1.0.

Another characteristic of the ethylene olefin interpolymer is that the ethylene olefin interpolymer comprises at least one polymer fraction which may be obtained by preparative TREF wherein the fraction has a block index greater than about 0.1 and up to about 1.0 and the polymer having a molecular weight distribution M M greater than about 1.3. In some embodiments the polymer fraction has a block index greater than about 0.6 and up to about 1.0 greater than about 0.7 and up to about 1.0 greater than about 0.8 and up to about 1.0 or greater than about 0.9 and up to about 1.0. In other embodiments the polymer fraction has a block index greater than about 0.1 and up to about 1.0 greater than about 0.2 and up to about 1.0 greater than about 0.3 and up to about 1.0 greater than about 0.4 and up to about 1.0 or greater than about 0.4 and up to about 1.0. In still other embodiments the polymer fraction has a block index greater than about 0.1 and up to about 0.5 greater than about 0.2 and up to about 0.5 greater than about 0.3 and up to about 0.5 or greater than about 0.4 and up to about 0.5. In yet other embodiments the polymer fraction has a block index greater than about 0.2 and up to about 0.9 greater than about 0.3 and up to about 0.8 greater than about 0.4 and up to about 0.7 or greater than about 0.5 and up to about 0.6.

In addition to an average block index and individual fraction block indices the ethylene olefin interpolymers may be characterized by one or more of the properties described as follows.

In one aspect the ethylene olefin interpolymers used in embodiments of the invention have a M Mfrom about 1.7 to about 3.5 and at least one melting point T in degrees Celsius and density d in grams cubic centimeter wherein the numerical values of the variables correspond to the relationship 2002.9 4538.5 2422.2 in some embodiments 6288.1 13141 6720.3 in other embodiments and 858.91 1825.3 1112.8 in yet other embodiments.

Unlike the traditional random copolymers of ethylene olefins whose melting points decrease with decreasing densities the ethylene olefins interpolymers exhibit melting points substantially independent of the density particularly when density is between about 0.87 g cc to about 0.95 g cc. For example the melting point of such polymers may be in the range of about 110 C. to about 130 C. when density ranges from 0.875 g cc to about 0.945 g cc. In some embodiments the melting point of such polymers may be in the range of about 115 C. to about 125 C. when density ranges from 0.875 g cc to about 0.945 g cc.

In another aspect the ethylene olefin interpolymers comprise in polymerized form ethylene and one or more olefins and are characterized by a T in degree Celsius defined as the temperature for the tallest Differential Scanning Calorimetry DSC peak minus the temperature for the tallest Crystallization Analysis Fractionation CRYSTAF peak and a heat of fusion in J g H and T and H satisfy the following relationships 0.1299 62.81 in some embodiments 0.1299 64.38 in other embodiments and 0.1299 65.95 in yet other embodiments for H up to 130 J g. Moreover T is equal to or greater than 48 C. for H greater than 130 J g. The CRYSTAF peak is determined using at least 5 percent of the cumulative polymer that is the peak must represent at least 5 percent of the cumulative polymer and if less than 5 percent of the polymer has an identifiable CRYSTAF peak then the CRYSTAF temperature is 30 C. and H is the numerical value of the heat of fusion in J g. More preferably the highest CRYSTAF peak contains at least 10 percent of the cumulative polymer.

In yet another aspect the ethylene olefin interpolymers may have a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 C. and 130 C. when fractionated using Temperature Rising Elution Fractionation TREF characterized in that the fraction has a molar comonomer content higher at least 5 percent higher in some embodiments at least 10 percent higher in other embodiments than that of a comparable random ethylene interpolymer fraction eluting between the same temperatures wherein the comparable random ethylene interpolymer contains the same comonomer s and has a melt index density and molar comonomer content based on the whole polymer within 10 percent of that of the block interpolymer. In some embodiments the Mw Mn of the comparable interpolymer is also within 10 percent of that of the block interpolymer and or the comparable interpolymer has a total comonomer content within 10 weight percent of that of the block interpolymer.

In still another aspect the ethylene olefin interpolymers are characterized by an elastic recovery Re in percent at 300 percent strain and 1 cycle measured on a compression molded film of an ethylene olefin interpolymer and has a density d in grams cubic centimeter wherein the numerical values of Re and d satisfy the following relationship when ethylene olefin interpolymer is substantially free of a cross linked phase Re 1481 1629 in some embodiments Re 1491 1629 in other embodiments Re 1501 1629 in other embodiments and Re 1511 1629 in yet other embodiments.

In some embodiments the ethylene olefin interpolymers may have a tensile strength above 10 MPa a tensile strength 11 MPa in other embodiments and a tensile strength 13 MPa in yet other embodiments. In some embodiments the ethylene olefins interpolymers may have an elongation at break of at least 600 percent at a crosshead separation rate of 11 cm minute at least 700 percent in other embodiments at least 800 percent in other embodiments and at least 900 percent in yet other embodiments.

In some embodiments the ethylene olefin interpolymers may have a storage modulus ratio G 25 C. G 100 C. from 1 to 50 from 1 to 20 in other embodiments and from 1 to 10 in yet other embodiments. In some embodiments the ethylene olefin interpolymers may have a 70 C. compression set of less than 80 percent less than 70 percent in other embodiments less than 60 percent in other embodiments and less than 50 percent less than 40 percent down to a compression set of 0 percent in yet other embodiments.

In some embodiments the ethylene olefin interpolymers may have a 85 C. compression set of less than 80 percent less than 70 percent in other embodiments less than 60 percent in other embodiments and less than 50 percent less than 40 percent down to a compression set of 0 percent in yet other embodiments.

In some embodiments the ethylene olefin interpolymers may have a heat of fusion of less than 85 J g. In other embodiments the ethylene olefin interpolymer may have a pellet blocking strength of equal to or less than 100 pounds foot 4800 Pa equal to or less than 50 lbs ft 2400 Pa in other embodiments equal to or less than 5 lbs ft 240 Pa and as low as 0 lbs ft 0 Pa in yet other embodiments.

In other embodiments the ethylene olefin interpolymers may comprise in polymerized form at least 50 mole percent ethylene and have a 70 C. compression set of less than 80 percent less than 70 percent in other embodiments less than 60 percent in other embodiments and less than 50 percent less than 40 percent and down to a compression set of 0 percent in yet other embodiments.

In some embodiments the multi block copolymers may possess a PDI fitting a Schultz Flory distribution rather than a Poisson distribution. The copolymers may be further characterized as having both a polydisperse block distribution and a polydisperse distribution of block sizes and possessing a most probable distribution of block lengths. Preferred multi block copolymers are those containing 4 or more blocks or segments including terminal blocks. More preferably the copolymers include at least 5 10 or 20 blocks or segments including terminal blocks.

In addition the block interpolymers may have additional characteristics or properties. In one aspect the interpolymers preferably comprising ethylene and one or more co polymerizable comonomers in polymerized form are characterized by multiple blocks or segments of two or more polymerized monomer units differing in chemical or physical properties blocked interpolymer most preferably a multi block copolymer the block interpolymer having a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 C. and 130 C. when fractionated using TREF characterized in that the fraction has a molar comonomer content higher at least 5 percent higher in some embodiments at least 10 percent higher in other embodiments than that of a comparable random ethylene interpolymer fraction eluting between the same temperatures wherein the comparable random ethylene interpolymer comprises the same comonomer s and has a melt index density and molar comonomer content based on the whole polymer within 10 percent of that of the blocked interpolymer. The Mw Mn of the comparable interpolymer may also be within 10 percent of that of the blocked interpolymer and or the comparable interpolymer may have total comonomer content within 10 weight percent of that of the blocked interpolymer.

Comonomer content may be measured using any suitable technique with techniques based on nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy preferred. Moreover for polymers or blends of polymers having relatively broad TREF curves the polymer is first fractionated using TREF into fractions each having an eluted temperature range of 10 C. or less. That is each eluted fraction has a collection temperature window of 10 C. or less. Using this technique the block interpolymers have at least one such fraction having a higher molar comonomer content than a corresponding fraction of the comparable interpolymer.

In another aspect the interpolymer is an olefin interpolymer preferably comprising ethylene and one or more co polymerizable comonomers in polymerized form characterized by multiple blocks i.e. at least two blocks or segments of two or more polymerized monomer units differing in chemical or physical properties blocked interpolymer most preferably a multi block copolymer the block interpolymer having a peak but not just a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 C. and 130 C. but without collecting and or isolating individual fractions characterized in that the peak has a comonomer content estimated by infra red spectroscopy when expanded using a full width half maximum FWHM area calculation has an average molar comonomer content higher at least 5 percent higher in some embodiments at least 10 percent higher in other embodiments than that of a comparable random ethylene interpolymer peak at the same elution temperature and expanded using a full width half maximum FWHM area calculation wherein the comparable random ethylene interpolymer has the same comonomer s and has a melt index density and molar comonomer content based on the whole polymer within 10 percent of that of the blocked interpolymer. The Mw Mn of the comparable interpolymer may also be within 10 percent of that of the blocked interpolymer and or the comparable interpolymer may have a total comonomer content within 10 weight percent of that of the blocked interpolymer. The full width half maximum FWHM calculation is based on the ratio of methyl to methylene response area CH CH from the ATREF infra red detector wherein the tallest highest peak is identified from the base line and then the FWHM area is determined. For a distribution measured using an ATREF peak the FWHM area is defined as the area under the curve between Tand T where Tand Tare points determined to the left and right of the ATREF peak by dividing the peak height by two and then drawing a line horizontal to the base line that intersects the left and right portions of the ATREF curve. A calibration curve for comonomer content is made using random ethylene olefin copolymers plotting comonomer content from NMR versus FWHM area ratio of the TREF peak. For this infra red method the calibration curve is generated for the same comonomer type of interest. The comonomer content of TREF peak of the multi block interpolymer may be determined by referencing this calibration curve using its FWHM methyl methylene area ratio CH CH of the TREF peak.

Comonomer content may be measured using any suitable technique with techniques based on nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy preferred. Using this technique the blocked interpolymers have higher molar comonomer content than a corresponding comparable interpolymer.

In some embodiments for interpolymers of ethylene and 1 octene the block interpolymer may have a comonomer content of the TREF fraction eluting between 40 and 130 C. greater than or equal to the quantity 0.2013 T 20.07 where T is the numerical value of the peak elution temperature of the TREF fraction being compared measured in C. The comonomer content of the TREF fraction eluting between 40 and 130 C. may be greater than or equal to the quantity 0.2013 T 21.07 in other embodiments

In addition to the above aspects and properties described herein the interpolymers may be characterized by one or more additional characteristics. In one aspect the interpolymer is an olefin interpolymer preferably comprising ethylene and one or more co polymerizable comonomers in polymerized form characterized by multiple blocks or segments of two or more polymerized monomer units differing in chemical or physical properties blocked interpolymer most preferably a multi block copolymer the block interpolymer having a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 C. and 130 C. when fractionated using TREF increments characterized in that the fraction has a molar comonomer content higher at least 5 10 15 20 or 25 percent higher in various embodiments than that of a comparable random ethylene interpolymer fraction eluting between the same temperatures wherein the comparable random ethylene interpolymer comprises the same comonomer s preferably it is the same comonomer s and a melt index density and molar comonomer content based on the whole polymer within 10 percent of that of the blocked interpolymer. Preferably the Mw Mn of the comparable interpolymer is also within 10 percent of that of the blocked interpolymer and or the comparable interpolymer has a total comonomer content within 10 weight percent of that of the blocked interpolymer.

In some embodiments the above interpolymers may be interpolymers of ethylene and at least one olefin especially those interpolymers having a whole polymer density from about 0.855 to about 0.935 g cm. In other embodiments for polymers having more than about 1 mole percent comonomer the blocked interpolymer may have a comonomer content of the TREF fraction eluting between 40 and 130 C. greater than or equal to the quantity 0.1356 T 13.89 where T is the numerical value of the peak ATREF elution temperature of the TREF fraction being compared measured in C. In other embodiments the comonomer content of the TREF fraction eluting between 40 and 130 C. may be greater than or equal to the quantity 0.1356 T 14.93 and greater than or equal to the quantity 0.2013 T 21.07 in yet other embodiments.

In still another aspect the interpolymer is an olefin interpolymer preferably comprising ethylene and one or more co polymerizable comonomers in polymerized form characterized by multiple blocks or segments of two or more polymerized monomer units differing in chemical or physical properties blocked interpolymer most preferably a multi block copolymer the block interpolymer having a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 C. and 130 C. when fractionated using TREF increments characterized in that every fraction having a comonomer content of at least about 6 mole percent has a melting point greater than about 100 C. For those fractions having a comonomer content from about 3 mole percent to about 6 mole percent every fraction has a DSC melting point of about 110 C. or higher. In other embodiments the polymer fractions having at least 1 mol percent comonomer have a DSC melting point that corresponds to the equation 5.5926 mol percent comonomer in the fraction 135.90.

In yet another aspect the interpolymer is an olefin interpolymer comprising ethylene and one or more co polymerizable comonomers in polymerized form characterized by multiple blocks or segments of two or more polymerized monomer units differing in chemical or physical properties blocked interpolymer most preferably a multi block copolymer the block interpolymer having a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 C. and 130 C. when fractionated using TREF increments characterized in that every fraction that has an ATREF elution temperature greater than or equal to about 76 C. has a melt enthalpy heat of fusion as measured by DSC corresponding to the equation Heat of fusion J gm 3.1718 ATREF elution temperature in C. 136.58.

The multi block interpolymers may have a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 C. and 130 C. when fractionated using TREF increments characterized in that every fraction that has an ATREF elution temperature between 40 C. and less than about 76 C. has a melt enthalpy heat of fusion as measured by DSC corresponding to the equation Heat of fusion J gm 1.1312 ATREF elution temperature in C. 22.97.

For copolymers of ethylene and an olefin the multi block interpolymers possess a PDI of at least 1.3 in some embodiments at least 1.5 in other embodiments at least 1.7 in other embodiments at least 2.0 in other embodiments and at least 2.6 in yet other embodiments. In other embodiments the multi block interpolymers possess a PDI up to a maximum value of 5.0 up to a maximum of 3.5 in other embodiments and up to a maximum of 2.7 in yet other embodiments. In some embodiments the multi block interpolymers may have a heat of fusion of 80 J g or less. In other embodiments the multi block interpolymers may have an ethylene content of at least 50 weight percent. In some embodiments the multi block interpolymer may have a glass transition temperature T of less than 25 C. less than 30 C. in other embodiments. In other embodiments the multi block interpolymer may have one and only one T. In other embodiments the multi block interpolymers may possess a combination of the above properties.

Further the multi block interpolymers may have alone or in combination with any other properties disclosed herein a storage modulus G such that log G is greater than or equal to 400 kPa at a temperature of 100 C. and greater than or equal to 1.0 MPa at a temperature of 100 C. in other embodiments. Moreover the interpolymers may possess a relatively flat storage modulus as a function of temperature in the range from 0 to 100 C. The term relatively flat in this context indicates that log G Pa decreases by less than one order of magnitude between 50 and 100 C. preferably between 0 and 100 C.

The interpolymers may be further characterized by a thermomechanical analysis penetration depth of 1 mm at a temperature of at least 90 C. as well as a flexural modulus of from 3 kpsi 20 MPa to 13 kpsi 90 MPa . Alternatively the interpolymers may have a thermomechanical analysis penetration depth of 1 mm at a temperature of at least 104 C. as well as a flexural modulus of at least 3 kpsi 20 MPa . They may be characterized as having an abrasion resistance or volume loss of less than 90 mm.

Additionally the ethylene olefin interpolymers may have a melt index I from 0.01 to 2000 g 10 minutes in some embodiments from 0.01 to 1000 g 10 minutes in other embodiments from 0.01 to 500 g 10 minutes in other embodiments and from 0.01 to 100 g 10 minutes in yet other embodiments. In certain embodiments the ethylene olefin interpolymers may have a melt index I from 0.01 to 10 g 10 minutes from 0.5 to 50 g 10 minutes from 1 to 30 g 10 minutes from 1 to 6 g 10 minutes or from 0.3 to 10 g 10 minutes. In certain embodiments the melt index for the ethylene olefin polymers may be approximately 1 g 10 minutes 3 g 10 minutes or 5 g 10 minutes.

The interpolymers may have molecular weights M from 1 000 g mole to 5 000 000 g mole in some embodiments from 1000 g mole to 1 000 000 in other embodiments from 10 000 g mole to 500 000 g mole in other embodiments and from 10 000 g mole to 300 000 g mole in yet other embodiments. The density of the multi block interpolymers may be from 0.80 to 0.99 g cmin some embodiments for ethylene containing polymers from 0.85 g cmto 0.97 g cm. In certain embodiments the density of the ethylene olefin polymers may range from 0.860 to 0.925 g cmor 0.867 to 0.910 g cm.

The process of making the polymers has been disclosed in the following patent applications U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 553 906 filed Mar. 17 2004 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 662 937 filed Mar. 17 2005 U.S. Provisional Application. No. 60 662 939 filed Mar. 17 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 662 938 filed Mar. 17 2005 PCT Publication No. WO2005 90425 filed Mar. 17 2005 PCT Publication No. WO2005 90427 filed Mar. 17 2005 and PCT Application No. PCT US2005 008917 filed Mar. 17 2005 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. For example one such method comprises contacting ethylene and optionally one or more addition polymerizable monomers other than ethylene under addition polymerization conditions with a catalyst composition comprising 

 B a second olefin polymerization catalyst having a comonomer incorporation index less than 90 percent preferably less than 50 percent most preferably less than 5 percent of the comonomer incorporation index of catalyst A and

Catalyst A1 is N 2 6 di 1 methylethyl phenyl amido 2 isopropylphenyl naphthalen 2 diyl 6 pyridin 2 diyl methane hafnium dimethyl prepared according to the teachings of WO 03 40195 U.S. Pat. No. 6 953 764 and No. 6 960 635 and WO 04 24740 

Catalyst A2 is N 2 6 di 1 methylethyl phenyl amido 2 methylphenyl 1 2 phenylene 6 pyridin 2 diyl methane hafnium dimethyl prepared according to the teachings of WO 03 40195 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 953 764 and 6 960 635 and WO 04 24740 

Catalyst A4 is bis 2 oxoyl 3 dibenzo 1H pyrrole 1 yl 5 methyl phenyl 2 phenoxymethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diyl zirconium IV dibenzyl prepared substantially according to the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 6 897 276.

Catalyst B1 is 1 2 bis 3 5 di t butylphenylene 1 N 1 methylethyl immino methyl 2 oxoyl zirconium dibenzyl 

Catalyst B2 is 1 2 bis 3 5 di t butylphenylene 1 N 2 methylcyclohexyl immino methyl 2 oxoyl zirconium dibenzyl 

Catalyst C1 is t butylamido dimethyl 3 N pyrrolyl 1 2 3 3a 7a inden 1 yl silanetitanium dimethyl prepared substantially according to the techniques of U.S. Pat. No. 6 268 444 

Catalyst C2 is t butylamido di 4 methylphenyl 2 methyl 1 2 3 3a 7a inden 1 yl silanetitanium dimethyl prepared substantially according to the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 6 825 295 

Catalyst C3 is t butylamido di 4 methylphenyl 2 methyl 1 2 3 3a 8a s indacen 1 yl silanetitanium dimethyl prepared substantially according to the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 6 825 295 

Shuttling agents may include diethylzinc di i butyl zinc di n hexyl zinc triethylaluminum trioctylaluminum triethylgallium i butylaluminum bis dimethyl t butyl siloxane i butylaluminum bis di trimethylsilyl amide n octylaluminum di pyridine 2 methoxide bis n octadecyl i butylaluminum i butylaluminum bis di n pentyl amide n octylaluminum bis 2 6 di t butylphenoxide n octylaluminum di ethyl 1 naphthyl amide ethylaluminum bis t butyldimethylsiloxide ethylaluminum di bis trimethylsilyl amide ethylaluminum bis 2 3 6 7 dibenzo 1 azacycloheptaneamide n octylaluminum bis 2 3 6 7 dibenzo 1 azacycloheptaneamide n octylaluminum bis dimethyl t butyl siloxide ethylzinc 2 6 diphenylphenoxide and ethylzinc t butoxide .

The foregoing process may take the form of a continuous solution process for forming block copolymers especially multi block copolymers preferably linear multi block copolymers of two or more monomers more especially ethylene and a Colefin or cycloolefin and most especially ethylene and a C olefin using multiple catalysts that are incapable of interconversion. That is the catalysts are chemically distinct. Under continuous solution polymerization conditions the process is ideally suited for polymerization of mixtures of monomers at high monomer conversions. Under these polymerization conditions shuttling from the chain shuttling agent to the catalyst becomes advantaged compared to chain growth and multi block copolymers especially linear multi block copolymers are formed in high efficiency.

The interpolymers disclosed herein may be differentiated from conventional random copolymers physical blends of polymers and block copolymers prepared via sequential monomer addition fluxional catalysts and anionic or cationic living polymerization techniques. In particular compared to a random copolymer of the same monomers and monomer content at equivalent crystallinity or modulus the interpolymers have better higher heat resistance as measured by melting point higher TMA penetration temperature higher high temperature tensile strength and or higher high temperature torsion storage modulus as determined by dynamic mechanical analysis. Compared to a random copolymer containing the same monomers and monomer content the interpolymers have lower compression set particularly at elevated temperatures lower stress relaxation higher creep resistance higher tear strength higher blocking resistance faster setup due to higher crystallization solidification temperature higher recovery particularly at elevated temperatures better abrasion resistance higher retractive force and better oil and filler acceptance.

The interpolymers may also exhibit a unique crystallization and branching distribution relationship. That is the interpolymers have a relatively large difference between the tallest peak temperature measured using CRYSTAF and DSC as a function of heat of fusion especially as compared to random copolymers containing the same monomers and monomer level or physical blends of polymers such as a blend of a high density polymer and a lower density copolymer at equivalent overall density. It is believed that this unique feature of the interpolymers is due to the unique distribution of the comonomer in blocks within the polymer backbone. In particular the interpolymers may comprise alternating blocks of differing comonomer content including homopolymer blocks . The interpolymers may also comprise a distribution in number and or block size of polymer blocks of differing density or comonomer content which is a Schultz Flory type of distribution. In addition the interpolymers also have a unique peak melting point and crystallization temperature profile that is substantially independent of polymer density modulus and morphology. In some embodiments the microcrystalline order of the polymers demonstrates characteristic spherulites and lamellae that are distinguishable from random or block copolymers even at PDI values that are less than 1.7 or even less than 1.5 down to less than 1.3.

Moreover the interpolymers may be prepared using techniques to influence the degree or level of blockiness. That is the amount of comonomer and length of each polymer block or segment may be altered by controlling the ratio and type of catalysts and shuttling agent as well as the temperature of the polymerization and other polymerization variables. A surprising benefit of this phenomenon is the discovery that as the degree of blockiness is increased the optical properties tear strength and high temperature recovery properties of the resulting polymer are improved. In particular haze decreases while clarity tear strength and high temperature recovery properties increase as the average number of blocks in the polymer increases. By selecting shuttling agents and catalyst combinations having the desired chain transferring ability high rates of shuttling with low levels of chain termination other forms of polymer termination are effectively suppressed. Accordingly little if any hydride elimination is observed in the polymerization of ethylene olefin comonomer mixtures and the resulting crystalline blocks are highly or substantially completely linear possessing little or no long chain branching.

Polymers with highly crystalline chain ends may be selectively prepared. In elastomer applications reducing the relative quantity of polymer that terminates with an amorphous block reduces the intermolecular dilutive effect on crystalline regions. This result may be obtained by choosing chain shuttling agents and catalysts having an appropriate response to hydrogen or other chain terminating agents. Specifically if the catalyst which produces highly crystalline polymer is more susceptible to chain termination such as by use of hydrogen than the catalyst responsible for producing the less crystalline polymer segment such as through higher comonomer incorporation regio error or atactic polymer formation then the highly crystalline polymer segments will preferentially populate the terminal portions of the polymer. Not only are the resulting terminated groups crystalline but upon termination the highly crystalline polymer forming catalyst site is once again available for re initiation of polymer formation. The initially formed polymer is therefore another highly crystalline polymer segment. Accordingly both ends of the resulting multi block copolymer are preferentially highly crystalline.

The ethylene olefin interpolymers used in the embodiments of the invention may be interpolymers of ethylene with at least one C C olefin. The interpolymers may further comprise C Cdiolefin and or alkenylbenzene. Suitable unsaturated comonomers useful for polymerizing with ethylene include for example ethylenically unsaturated monomers conjugated or non conjugated dienes polyenes alkenylbenzenes etc. Examples of such comonomers include C C olefins such as propylene isobutylene 1 butene 1 hexene 1 pentene 4 methyl 1 pentene 1 heptene 1 octene 1 nonene 1 decene and the like. 1 Butene and 1 octene are especially preferred. Other suitable monomers include styrene halo or alkyl substituted styrenes vinylbenzocyclobutane 1 4 hexadiene 1 7 octadiene and naphthenics e.g. cyclopentene cyclohexene and cyclooctene .

Other ethylene olefin polymers may also be used. Olefins as used herein refer to a family of unsaturated hydrocarbon based compounds with at least one carbon carbon double bond. Depending on the selection of catalysts any olefin may be used in embodiments of the invention. Suitable olefins include C Caliphatic and aromatic compounds containing vinylic unsaturation as well as cyclic compounds such as cyclobutene cyclopentene dicyclopentadiene and norbornene including but not limited to norbornene substituted in the 5 and 6 position with C Chydrocarbyl or cyclohydrocarbyl groups. Also included are mixtures of such olefins as well as mixtures of such olefins with C Cdiolefin compounds.

Examples of olefin monomers include but are not limited to propylene isobutylene 1 butene 1 pentene 1 hexene 1 heptene 1 octene 1 nonene 1 decene and 1 dodecene 1 tetradecene 1 hexadecene 1 octadecene 1 eicosene 3 methyl 1 butene 3 methyl 1 pentene 4 methyl 1 pentene 4 6 dimethyl 1 heptene 4 vinylcyclohexene vinylcyclohexane norbornadiene ethylidene norbornene cyclopentene cyclohexene dicyclopentadiene cyclooctene C Cdienes including but not limited to 1 3 butadiene 1 3 pentadiene 1 4 hexadiene 1 5 hexadiene 1 7 octadiene 1 9 decadiene other C C olefins and the like. In certain embodiments the olefin is propylene 1 butene 1 pentene 1 hexene 1 octene or a combination thereof. Although any hydrocarbon containing a vinyl group potentially may be used in embodiments of the invention practical issues such as monomer availability cost and the ability to conveniently remove unreacted monomer from the resulting polymer may become more problematic as the molecular weight of the monomer becomes too high.

Other olefin interpolymers include polymers comprising monovinylidene aromatic monomers including styrene o methyl styrene p methyl styrene t butylstyrene and the like. In particular interpolymers comprising ethylene and styrene may be used. In other embodiments copolymers comprising ethylene styrene and a C C olefin optionally comprising a C Cdiene may be used.

Suitable non conjugated diene monomers may include straight chain branched chain or cyclic hydrocarbon diene having from 6 to 15 carbon atoms. Examples of suitable non conjugated dienes include but are not limited to straight chain acyclic dienes such as 1 4 hexadiene 1 6 octadiene 1 7 octadiene 1 9 decadiene branched chain acyclic dienes such as 5 methyl 1 4 hexadiene 3 7 dimethyl 1 6 octadiene 3 7 dimethyl 1 7 octadiene and mixed isomers of dihydromyricene and dihydroocinene single ring alicyclic dienes such as 1 3 cyclopentadiene 1 4 cyclohexadiene 1 5 cyclooctadiene and 1 5 cyclododecadiene and multi ring alicyclic fused and bridged ring dienes such as tetrahydroindene methyl tetrahydroindene dicyclopentadiene bicyclo 2 2 1 hepta 2 5 diene alkenyl alkylidene cycloalkenyl and cycloalkylidene norbornenes such as 5 methylene 2 norbornene MNB 5 propenyl 2 norbornene 5 isopropylidene 2 norbornene 5 4 cyclopentenyl 2 norbornene 5 cyclohexylidene 2 norbornene 5 vinyl 2 norbornene and norbornadiene. Of the dienes typically used to prepare EPDMs the particularly preferred dienes are 1 4 hexadiene HD 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene ENB 5 vinylidene 2 norbornene VNB 5 methylene 2 norbornene MNB and dicyclopentadiene DCPD .

One class of desirable polymers that may be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention includes elastomeric interpolymers of ethylene a C C olefin especially propylene and optionally one or more diene monomers. Preferred olefins for use in this embodiment are designated by the formula CH CHR where R is a linear or branched alkyl group of from 1 to 12 carbon atoms. Examples of suitable olefins include but are not limited to propylene isobutylene 1 butene 1 pentene 1 hexene 4 methyl 1 pentene and 1 octene. A particularly preferred olefin is propylene. The propylene based polymers are generally referred to in the art as EP or EPDM polymers. Suitable dienes for use in preparing such polymers especially multi block EPDM type polymers include conjugated or non conjugated straight or branched chain cyclic or polycyclic dienes comprising from 4 to 20 carbons. Preferred dienes include 1 4 pentadiene 1 4 hexadiene 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene dicyclopentadiene cyclohexadiene and 5 butylidene 2 norbornene. A particularly preferred diene is 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene.

Because the diene containing polymers comprise alternating segments or blocks containing greater or lesser quantities of the diene including none and olefin including none the total quantity of diene and olefin may be reduced without loss of subsequent polymer properties. That is because the diene and olefin monomers are preferentially incorporated into one type of block of the polymer rather than uniformly or randomly throughout the polymer they are more efficiently utilized and subsequently the crosslink density of the polymer may be better controlled. Such crosslinkable elastomers and the cured products have advantaged properties including higher tensile strength and better elastic recovery.

In some embodiments the interpolymers made with two catalysts incorporating differing quantities of comonomer have a weight ratio of blocks formed thereby ranging from 95 5 to 5 95. The elastomeric interpolymers in some embodiments have an ethylene content of from 20 to 90 percent a diene content of from 0.1 to 10 percent and an olefin content of from 10 to 80 percent based on the total weight of the polymer. In other embodiments the multi block elastomeric polymers have an ethylene content of from 60 to 90 percent a diene content of from 0.1 to 10 percent and an olefin content of from 10 to 40 percent based on the total weight of the polymer. In some embodiments the interpolymers are high molecular weight polymers having a weight average molecular weight Mw from 10 000 to about 2 500 000 from 20 000 to 500 000 in other embodiments and from 20 000 to 350 000 in yet other embodiments. In some embodiments the interpolymers may have a polydispersity less than 3.5 less than 3.0 in other embodiments. In other embodiments the interpolymer may have a Mooney viscosity ML 1 4 125 C. ranging from 1 to 250. In other embodiments such polymers may have an ethylene content from 65 to 75 percent a diene content from 0 to 6 percent and an olefin content from 20 to 35 percent.

The ethylene olefin interpolymers may be functionalized by incorporating at least one functional group in its polymer structure. Exemplary functional groups may include for example ethylenically unsaturated mono and di functional carboxylic acids ethylenically unsaturated mono and di functional carboxylic acid anhydrides salts thereof and esters thereof. Such functional groups may be grafted to an ethylene olefin interpolymer or it may be copolymerized with ethylene and an optional additional comonomer to form an interpolymer of ethylene the functional comonomer and optionally other comonomer s . Means for grafting functional groups onto polyethylene are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 762 890 4 927 888 and 4 950 541 the disclosures of these patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. One particularly useful functional group is maleic anhydride.

The amount of the functional group present in the functional interpolymer may vary. The functional group may be present in a copolymer type functionalized interpolymer in an amount of at least about 1.0 weight percent in some embodiments at least about 5 weight percent in other embodiments and at least about 7 weight percent in yet other embodiments. The functional group may be present in a copolymer type functionalized interpolymer in an amount less than about 40 weight percent in some embodiments less than about 30 weight percent in other embodiments and less than about 25 weight percent in yet other embodiments.

Additives may be used with the base polymer stabilizing agent or filler used in the dispersion without deviating from the scope of the present invention. For example additives may include a wetting agent surfactants anti static agents antifoam agent anti block wax dispersion pigments a neutralizing agent a thickener a compatibilizer a brightener a rheology modifier a biocide a fungicide and other additives known to those skilled in the art.

Additives and adjuvants may be included in any formulation comprising the multi block interpolymers. Suitable additives include fillers such as organic or inorganic particles including clays talc titanium dioxide zeolites powdered metals organic or inorganic fibers including carbon fibers silicon nitride fibers steel wire or mesh and nylon or polyester cording nano sized particles clays and so forth tackifiers oil extenders including paraffinic or napthelenic oils and other natural and synthetic polymers including other polymers according to embodiments of the invention.

Suitable polymers for blending with the polymers according to embodiments of the invention include thermoplastic and non thermoplastic polymers including natural and synthetic polymers. Exemplary polymers for blending include polypropylene both impact modifying polypropylene isotactic polypropylene atactic polypropylene and random ethylene propylene copolymers various types of polyethylene including high pressure free radical LDPE Ziegler Natta LLDPE metallocene PE including multiple reactor PE in reactor blends of Ziegler Natta PE and metallocene PE such as products disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 545 088 6 538 070 6 566 446 5 844 045 5 869 575 and 6 448 341 ethylene vinyl acetate EVA ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymers polystyrene impact modified polystyrene ABS styrene butadiene block copolymers and hydrogenated derivatives thereof SBS and SEBS and thermoplastic polyurethanes. Homogeneous polymers such as olefin plastomers and elastomers ethylene and propylene based copolymers for example polymers available under the trade designation VERSIFY available from The Dow Chemical Company and VISTAMAXX available from ExxonMobil may also be useful as components in blends comprising the multi block interpolymers.

Suitable conventional block copolymers which may be blended with the interpolymers disclosed herein may possess a Mooney viscosity ML 1 4 100 C. in the range from 10 to 135 in some embodiments from 25 to 100 in other embodiments and from 30 to 80 in yet other embodiments. Suitable polyolefins especially include linear or low density polyethylene polypropylene including atactic isotactic syndiotactic and impact modified versions thereof and poly 4 methyl 1 pentene . Suitable styrenic polymers include polystyrene rubber modified polystyrene HIPS styrene acrylonitrile copolymers SAN rubber modified SAN ABS or AES and styrene maleic anhydride copolymers.

The blends may be prepared by mixing or kneading the respective components at a temperature around or above the melt point temperature of one or both of the components. For most multiblock copolymers this temperature may be above 130 C. most generally above 145 C. and most preferably above 150 C. Typical polymer mixing or kneading equipment that is capable of reaching the desired temperatures and melt plastifying the mixture may be employed. These include mills kneaders extruders both single screw and twin screw BANBURY mixers calenders and the like. The sequence of mixing and method may depend on the final composition. A combination of BANBURY batch mixers and continuous mixers may also be employed such as a BANBURY mixer followed by a mill mixer followed by an extruder. Typically a TPE or TPV composition will have a higher loading of cross linkable polymer typically the conventional block copolymer containing unsaturation compared to TPO compositions. Generally for TPE and TPV compositions the weight ratio of block copolymer to multi block copolymer may range from about 90 10 to 10 90 more preferably from 80 20 to 20 80 and most preferably from 75 25 to 25 75. For TPO applications the weight ratio of multi block copolymer to polyolefin may be from about 49 51 to about 5 95 more preferably from 35 65 to about 10 90. For modified styrenic polymer applications the weight ratio of multi block copolymer to polyolefin may also be from about 49 51 to about 5 95 more preferably from 35 65 to about 10 90. The ratios may be changed by changing the viscosity ratios of the various components. There is considerable literature illustrating techniques for changing the phase continuity by changing the viscosity ratios of the constituents of a blend and a person skilled in this art may consult if necessary.

The blend compositions may contain processing oils plasticizers and processing aids. Rubber processing oils having a certain ASTM designation and paraffinic napthenic or aromatic process oils are all suitable for use. Generally from 0 to 150 parts more preferably 0 to 100 parts and most preferably from 0 to 50 parts of oil per 100 parts of total polymer are employed. Higher amounts of oil may tend to improve the processing of the resulting product at the expense of some physical properties. Additional processing aids include conventional waxes fatty acid salts such as calcium stearate or zinc stearate poly alcohols including glycols poly alcohol ethers including glycol ethers poly esters including poly glycol esters and metal salt especially Group 1 or 2 metal or zinc salt derivatives thereof.

It is known that non hydrogenated rubbers such as those comprising polymerized forms of butadiene or isoprene including block copolymers here in after diene rubbers have lower resistance to UV ozone and oxidation compared to mostly or highly saturated rubbers. In applications such as tires made from compositions containing higher concentrations of diene based rubbers it is known to incorporate carbon black to improve rubber stability along with anti ozone additives and anti oxidants. Multi block copolymers according to the present invention possessing extremely low levels of unsaturation find particular application as a protective surface layer coated coextruded or laminated or weather resistant film adhered to articles formed from conventional diene elastomer modified polymeric compositions.

For conventional TPO TPV and TPE applications carbon black is the additive of choice for UV absorption and stabilizing properties. Representative examples of carbon blacks include ASTM N110 N121 N220 N231 N234 N242 N293 N299 S315 N326 N330 M332 N339 N343 N347 N351 N358 N375 N539 N550 N582 N630 N642 N650 N683 N754 N762 N765 N774 N787 N907 N908 N990 and N991. These carbon blacks have iodine absorptions ranging from 9 to 145 g kg and average pore volumes ranging from 10 to 150 cm 100 g. Generally smaller particle sized carbon blacks are employed to the extent cost considerations permit. For many such applications the present multi block copolymers and blends thereof require little or no carbon black thereby allowing considerable design freedom to include alternative pigments or no pigments at all.

Compositions including thermoplastic blends according to embodiments of the invention may also contain anti ozonants or anti oxidants that are known to a rubber chemist of ordinary skill. The anti ozonants may be physical protectants such as waxy materials that come to the surface and protect the part from oxygen or ozone or they may be chemical protectors that react with oxygen or ozone. Suitable chemical protectors include styrenated phenols butylated octylated phenol butylated di dimethylbenzyl phenol p phenylenediamines butylated reaction products of p cresol and dicyclopentadiene DCPD polyphenolic anitioxidants hydroquinone derivatives quinoline diphenylene antioxidants thioester antioxidants and blends thereof. Some representative trade names of such products are WINGSTAY S antioxidant POLYSTAY 100 antioxidant POLYSTAY 100 AZ antioxidant POLYSTAY 200 antioxidant WINGSTAY L antioxidant WINGSTAY LHLS antioxidant WINGSTAY K antioxidant WINGSTAY 29 antioxidant WINGSTAY SN 1 antioxidant and IRGANOX antioxidants. In some applications the anti oxidants and anti ozonants used will preferably be non staining and non migratory.

For providing additional stability against UV radiation hindered amine light stabilizers HALS and UV absorbers may be also used. Suitable examples include TINUVIN 123 TINUVIN 144 TINUVIN 622 TINUVIN 765 TINUVIN 770 and TINUVIN 780 available from Ciba Specialty Chemicals and CHEMISORB T944 available from Cytex Plastics Houston Tex. USA. A Lewis acid may be additionally included with a HALS compound in order to achieve superior surface quality as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 051 681.

For some compositions additional mixing process may be employed to pre disperse the anti oxidants anti ozonants carbon black UV absorbers and or light stabilizers to form a masterbatch and subsequently to form polymer blends there from.

Suitable crosslinking agents also referred to as curing or vulcanizing agents for use herein include sulfur based peroxide based or phenolic based compounds.

Examples of the foregoing materials are found in the art including in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 758 643 3 806 558 5 051 478 4 104 210 4 130 535 4 202 801 4 271 049 4 340 684 4 250 273 4 927 882 4 311 628 and 5 248 729.

When sulfur based curing agents are employed accelerators and cure activators may be used as well. Accelerators are used to control the time and or temperature required for dynamic vulcanization and to improve the properties of the resulting cross linked article. In one embodiment a single accelerator or primary accelerator is used. The primary accelerator s may be used in total amounts ranging from about 0.5 to about 4 preferably about 0.8 to about 1.5 phr based on total composition weight. In another embodiment combinations of a primary and a secondary accelerator might be used with the secondary accelerator being used in smaller amounts such as from about 0.05 to about 3 phr in order to activate and to improve the properties of the cured article. Combinations of accelerators generally produce articles having properties that are somewhat better than those produced by use of a single accelerator. In addition delayed action accelerators may be used which are not affected by normal processing temperatures yet produce a satisfactory cure at ordinary vulcanization temperatures. Vulcanization retarders might also be used. Suitable types of accelerators that may be used in the present invention are amines disulfides guanidines thioureas thiazoles thiurams sulfenamides dithiocarbamates and xanthates. Preferably the primary accelerator is a sulfenamide. If a second accelerator is used the secondary accelerator is preferably a guanidine dithiocarbamate or thiuram compound. Certain processing aids and cure activators such as stearic acid and ZnO may also be used. When peroxide based curing agents are used co activators or coagents may be used in combination therewith. Suitable coagents include trimethylolpropane triacrylate TMPTA trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate TMPTMA triallyl cyanurate TAC triallyl isocyanurate TAIC among others. Use of peroxide crosslinkers and optional coagents used for partial or complete dynamic vulcanization are known in the art and disclosed for example in the publication Peroxide Vulcanization of Elastomer Vol. 74 No 3 July August 2001.

When the multi block copolymer containing composition is at least partially crosslinked the degree of crosslinking may be measured by dissolving the composition in a solvent for specified duration and calculating the percent gel or unextractable component. The percent gel normally increases with increasing crosslinking levels. For cured articles according to embodiments of the invention the percent gel content is desirably in the range from 5 to 100 percent.

The multi block copolymers according to embodiments of the invention as well as blends thereof may possess improved processability compared to prior art compositions due it is believed to lower melt viscosity. Thus the composition or blend demonstrates an improved surface appearance especially when formed into a molded or extruded article. At the same time the present compositions and blends thereof uniquely possess improved melt strength properties thereby allowing the present multi block copolymers and blends thereof especially TPO blends to be usefully employed in foam and thermoforming applications where melt strength is currently inadequate.

Thermoplastic compositions according to embodiments of the invention may also contain organic or inorganic fillers or other additives such as starch talc calcium carbonate glass fibers polymeric fibers including nylon rayon cotton polyester and polyaramide metal fibers flakes or particles expandable layered silicates phosphates or carbonates such as clays mica silica alumina aluminosilicates or aluminophosphates carbon whiskers carbon fibers nanoparticles including nanotubes wollastonite graphite zeolites and ceramics such as silicon carbide silicon nitride or titania. Silane based or other coupling agents may also be employed for better filler bonding.

The thermoplastic compositions according to embodiments of the invention including the foregoing blends may be processed by conventional molding techniques such as injection molding extrusion molding thermoforming slush molding over molding insert molding blow molding and other techniques. Films including multi layer films may be produced by cast or tentering processes including blown film processes.

In addition to the above the block ethylene olefin interpolymers also may be used in a manner that is described in the following U.S. provisional applications the disclosures of which and their continuations divisional applications and continuation in part applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety 

Embodiments of the present invention use a stabilizing agent to promote the formation of a stable dispersion or emulsion. In selected embodiments the stabilizing agent may be a surfactant a polymer different from the base polymer detailed above or mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments the polymer may be a polar polymer having a polar group as either a comonomer or grafted monomer. In preferred embodiments the stabilizing agent comprises one or more polar polyolefins having a polar group as either a comonomer or grafted monomer. Typical polymers include ethylene acrylic acid EAA and ethylene methacrylic acid copolymers such as those available under the trademarks PRIMACOR trademark of The Dow Chemical Company NUCREL trademark of E.I. DuPont de Nemours and ESCOR trademark of ExxonMobil and described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 599 392 4 988 781 and 5 938 437 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Other polymers include ethylene ethyl acrylate EEA copolymer ethylene methyl methacrylate EMMA and ethylene butyl acrylate EBA . Other ethylene carboxylic acid copolymer may also be used. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a number of other useful polymers may also be used.

Other surfactants that may be used include long chain fatty acids or fatty acid salts having from 12 to 60 carbon atoms. In other embodiments the long chain fatty acid or fatty acid salt may have from 12 to 40 carbon atoms.

If the polar group of the polymer is acidic or basic in nature the stabilizing polymer may be partially or fully neutralized with a neutralizing agent to form the corresponding salt. In certain embodiments neutralization of the stabilizing agent such as a long chain fatty acid or EAA may be from 25 to 200 on a molar basis from 50 to 110 on a molar basis in other embodiments. For example for EAA the neutralizing agent is a base such as ammonium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide for example. Other neutralizing agents may include lithium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide for example. Those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the selection of an appropriate neutralizing agent depends on the specific composition formulated and that such a choice is within the knowledge of those of ordinary skill in the art.

Additional surfactants that may be useful in the practice of the present invention include cationic surfactants anionic surfactants or a non ionic surfactants. Examples of anionic surfactants include sulfonates carboxylates and phosphates. Examples of cationic surfactants include quaternary amines. Examples of non ionic surfactants include block copolymers containing ethylene oxide and silicone surfactants. Surfactants useful in the practice of the present invention may be either external surfactants or internal surfactants. External surfactants are surfactants that do not become chemically reacted into the polymer during dispersion preparation. Examples of external surfactants useful herein include salts of dodecyl benzene sulfonic acid and lauryl sulfonic acid salt. Internal surfactants are surfactants that do become chemically reacted into the polymer during dispersion preparation. An example of an internal surfactant useful herein includes 2 2 dimethylol propionic acid and its salts.

In particular embodiments the dispersing agent or stabilizing agent may be used in an amount ranging from greater than zero to about 60 by weight based on the amount of base polymer or base polymer mixture used. For example long chain fatty acids or salts thereof may be used in an amount ranging from 0.5 to 10 by weight based on the amount of base polymer. In other embodiments ethylene acrylic acid or ethylene methacrylic acid copolymers may be used in an amount from 0.5 to 60 by weight based on polymer. In yet other embodiments sulfonic acid salts may be used in an amount from 0.5 to 10 by weight based on the amount of base polymer.

The type and amount of stabilizing agent used may also affect end properties of the cellulose based article formed incorporating the dispersion. For example articles having improved oil and grease resistance might incorporate a surfactant package having ethylene acrylic acid copolymers or ethylene methacrylic acid copolymers in an amount from about 10 to about 50 by weight based on the total amount of base polymer. A similar surfactant package may be used when improved strength or softness is a desired end property. As another example articles having improved water or moisture resistance might incorporate a surfactant package utilizing long chain fatty acids in an amount from 0.5 to 5 or ethylene acrylic acid copolymers in an amount from 10 to 50 both by weight based on the total amount of base polymer. In other embodiments the minimum amount of surfactant or stabilizing agent must be at least 1 by weight based on the total amount of base polymer.

Embodiments of the dispersions disclosed herein may include a filler as part of the composition. A suitable filler loading in a polyolefin dispersion may be from about 0 to about 600 parts of filler per hundred parts of polyolefin. In certain embodiments the filler loading in the dispersion may be from about 0 to about 200 parts of filler per hundred parts of a combined amount of the polyolefin and the polymeric stabilizing agent. The filler material may include conventional fillers such as milled glass calcium carbonate aluminum trihydrate talc antimony trioxide fly ash clays such as bentonite or kaolin clays for example or other known fillers.

As mentioned above the dispersions disclosed herein may include blends of the above described multi block olefin interpolymers with thermoplastic polymers or non polar thermoplastic polyolefins. In some embodiments the multi block interpolymer may be the majority polymeric component. In other embodiments the thermoplastic polyolefin may be the majority polymeric component.

In specific embodiments the thermoplastic polymers or non polar thermoplastic polyolefins may include polyolefins such as polypropylene polyethylene and copolymers thereof and blends thereof as well as ethylene propylene diene terpolymers. In some embodiments preferred olefinic polymers include homogeneous polymers described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 645 992 high density polyethylene HDPE as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 076 698 heterogeneously branched linear low density polyethylene LLDPE heterogeneously branched ultra low linear density polyethylene ULDPE homogeneously branched linear ethylene olefin copolymers homogeneously branched substantially linear ethylene olefin polymers which may be prepared for example by a process disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 272 236 and 5 278 272 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference and high pressure free radical polymerized ethylene polymers and copolymers such as low density polyethylene LDPE .

Polymer compositions described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 566 446 6 538 070 6 448 341 6 316 549 6 111 023 5 869 575 5 844 045 or 5 677 383 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety are also suitable in some embodiments. Of course blends of polymers may be used as well. In some embodiments the blends include two different Ziegler Natta polymers. In other embodiments the blends may include blends of a Ziegler Natta and a metallocene polymer. In still other embodiments the polymer used herein may be a blend of two different metallocene polymers. In other embodiments polymers produced from single site catalysts may be used. In yet another embodiment block or multi block copolymers may be used in embodiments of the invention. Such polymers include those described and claimed in WO2005 090427 having priority to U.S. Ser. No. 60 553 906 filed Mar. 7 2004 .

In some particular embodiments the polymer is a propylene based copolymer or interpolymer. In some embodiments the propylene ethylene copolymer or interpolymer is characterized as having substantially isotactic propylene sequences. The term substantially isotactic propylene sequences and similar terms mean that the sequences have an isotactic triad mm measured by C NMR of greater than about 0.85 preferably greater than about 0.90 more preferably greater than about 0.92 and most preferably greater than about 0.93. Isotactic triads are well known in the art and are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 504 172 and WO 00 01745 which refer to the isotactic sequence in terms of a triad unit in the copolymer molecular chain determined by C NMR spectra.

In other particular embodiments the thermoplastic polymer may be ethylene vinyl acetate EVA based polymers. In other embodiments the thermoplastic polymer may be ethylene methyl acrylate EMA based polymers. In other particular embodiments the ethylene olefin copolymer may be ethylene butene ethylene hexene or ethylene octene copolymers or interpolymers. In other particular embodiments the propylene olefin copolymer may be a propylene ethylene or a propylene ethylene butene copolymer or interpolymer.

In certain embodiments the non polar thermoplastic polymer may be an ethylene octene copolymer or interpolymer having a density between 0.863 and 0.911 g cc and melt index 190 C. with 2.16 kg weight from 0.1 to 100 g 10 min. In other embodiments the ethylene octene copolymers may have a density between 0.863 and 0.902 g cc and melt index 190 C. with 2.16 kg weight from 0.8 to 35 g 10 min.

In certain embodiments the non polar thermoplastic polymer may be a propylene ethylene copolymer or interpolymer having an ethylene content between 5 and 20 by weight and a melt flow rate 230 C. with 2.16 kg weight from 0.5 to 300 g 10 min. In other embodiments the propylene ethylene copolymer or interpolymer may have an ethylene content between 9 and 12 by weight and a melt flow rate 230 C. with 2.16 kg weight from 1 to 100 g 10 min.

In certain other embodiments the non polar thermoplastic polymer may be a low density polyethylene having a density between 0.911 and 0.925 g cc and melt index 190 C. with 2.16 kg weight from 0.1 to 100 g 10 min.

In other embodiments the non polar thermoplastic polymer may have a crystallinity of less than 50 percent. In preferred embodiments the crystallinity of the non polar thermoplastic polymer may be from 5 to 35 percent. In more preferred embodiments the crystallinity may range from 7 to 20 percent.

In certain other embodiments the non polar thermoplastic polymer may have a melting point of less than 110 C. In preferred embodiments the melting point may be from 25 to 100 C. In more preferred embodiments the melting point may be between 40 and 85 C.

In certain embodiments the non polar thermoplastic polymer may have a weight average molecular weight greater than 20 000 g mole. In preferred embodiments the weight average molecular weight may be from 20 000 to 150 000 g mole in more preferred embodiments from 50 000 to 100 000 g mole.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the above list is a non comprehensive listing of suitable polymers. It will be appreciated that the scope of the present invention is restricted by the claims only.

Dispersions both aqueous and non aqueous may be formed using the interpolymers described above or formulations comprising the same. Frothed foams comprising the interpolymers may also be formed as disclosed in PCT Publication No. WO2005 21622 filed Aug. 25 2004 and published as WO2005 021622. The interpolymers may also be crosslinked by any known means such as the use of peroxide electron beam silane azide or other cross linking technique. The polymers may also be chemically modified such as by grafting for example by use of maleic anhydride MAH silanes or other grafting agent halogenation amination sulfonation or other chemical modification.

Dispersions formed in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein may include a base polymer which may comprise at least one multi block olefin interpolymer and a stabilizing agent which may comprise at least one polar polyolefin. The multi block olefin interpolymer in some embodiments may be propylene based interpolymers ethylene based interpolymers or combinations thereof.

With respect to the multi block interpolymer and the stabilizing agent in some embodiments the at least one multi block olefin interpolymer may comprise between about 30 percent to about 99 percent by weight of the total amount of base polymer and stabilizing agent in the composition. In other embodiments the at least one multi block olefin interpolymer may comprise between about 50 percent and about 90 percent of the total amount of base polymer and stabilizing agent in the composition. In yet other embodiments the one or more non polar polyolefins may comprise between about 60 percent and about 80 percent of the total amount of base polymer and stabilizing agent in the composition.

The one or more multi block olefin interpolymer resins may be contained within the aqueous dispersion in an amount from about 1 percent by weight to about 96 percent by weight. In some embodiments the multi block olefin interpolymer may be present in the aqueous dispersion in an amount from about 10 percent by weight to about 80 percent by weight. In other embodiments the multi block olefin interpolymer may be present in an amount from about 20 percent to about 70 percent by weight and from about 30 percent to about 60 weight percent by weight in yet other embodiments.

Dispersions formed in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein may include a base polymer which may include at least one multi block olefin interpolymer a secondary polymeric component which may include at least one thermoplastic polyolefin and a stabilizing agent. The at least one multi block polyolefin in some embodiments may comprise from about 30 percent to 95 percent by weight of the total amount of base polymer secondary polymer and stabilizing agent in the composition. In other embodiments the at least one multi block olefin interpolymer may comprise between about 50 percent and about 80 percent by weight and between about 60 percent to about 70 percent by weight in yet other embodiments. In some embodiments the secondary polymeric component may comprise from 1 to 48 percent by weight of the total amount of base polymer secondary polymer and stabilizing agent in the composition. In other embodiments the secondary polymeric component may comprise from 5 to 30 percent by weight and from 10 to 25 percent by weight in yet other embodiments.

Benefits derived from a multi block olefin interpolymer may also be realized where the multi block interpolymer is used as a minority component in a dispersion. Accordingly dispersions formed in accordance with other embodiments disclosed herein may include a base polymer which may include at least one non polar thermoplastic polyolefin a secondary polymeric component which may include at least one multi block olefin interpolymer and a stabilizing agent. The base polymer in some embodiments may comprise from about 30 percent to 95 percent by weight of the total amount of base polymer multi block olefin interpolymer and stabilizing agent in the composition. In other embodiments the base polymer may comprise between about 50 percent and about 80 percent by weight and between about 60 percent to about 70 percent by weight in yet other embodiments. In other embodiments the multi block olefin interpolymer component may comprise from 1 to 48 percent by weight of the total amount of base polymer multi block olefin interpolymer and stabilizing agent in the composition. In other embodiments the multi block olefin interpolymer component may comprise from 5 to 30 percent by weight and from 10 to 25 percent by weight in yet other embodiments.

With respect to the filler typically an amount greater than about 0 to about 1000 parts per hundred of the polymer polymer meaning here the multi block interpolymer combined with the thermoplastic polymer if any and the stabilizing agent is used. In selected embodiments between about 50 to 250 parts per hundred are used. In other selected embodiments between about 10 to 500 parts per hundred are used. In still other embodiments from between about 20 to 400 parts per hundred are used. In other embodiments from about 0 to about 200 parts per hundred are used.

The solid materials multi block interpolymer plus thermoplastic polymer if any plus stabilizing agent are preferably dispersed in a liquid medium which in preferred embodiments is water. In preferred embodiments sufficient neutralization agent is added to neutralize the resultant dispersion to achieve a pH range of between about 4 to about 14. In preferred embodiments sufficient base is added to maintain a pH of between about 6 to about 11 in other embodiments the pH may be between about 8 to about 10.5. Water content of the dispersion is preferably controlled so that the solids content is between about 1 to about 74 by volume. In another embodiment the solid content is between about 25 to about 74 by volume. In particular embodiments the solids range may be between about 10 to about 70 by weight. In other particular embodiments the solids range is between about 20 to about 60 by weight. In particularly preferred embodiments the solids range is between about 30 to about 55 by weight.

Dispersions formed in accordance with embodiments of the present invention are characterized in having an average particle size of between about 0.1 to about 5.0 microns. In other embodiments dispersions have an average particle size of from about 0.5 m to about 2.7 m. In other embodiments from about 0.8 m to about 1.2 m. By average particle size the present invention means the volume mean particle size. In order to measure the particle size laser diffraction techniques may be employed for example. A particle size in this description refers to the diameter of the polymer in the dispersion. For polymer particles that are not spherical the diameter of the particle is the average of the long and short axes of the particle. Particle sizes may be measured on a Beckman Coulter LS230 laser diffraction particle size analyzer or other suitable device.

For example a formulation of the present invention may include surfactants frothing agents dispersants thickeners fire retardants pigments antistatic agents reinforcing fibers antifoam agent anti block wax dispersion antioxidants a neutralizing agent a rheology modifier preservatives biocides acid scavengers a wetting agent and the like. While optional for purposes of the present invention other components may be highly advantageous for product stability during and after the manufacturing process.

In addition embodiments of the present invention optionally include a filler wetting agent. A filler wetting agent generally may help make the filler and the polyolefin dispersion more compatible. Useful wetting agents include phosphate salts such as sodium hexametaphosphate. A filler wetting agent may be included in a composition of the present invention at a concentration of at least about 0.5 parts per 100 parts of filler by weight.

Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may optionally include a thickener. Thickeners may be useful in the present invention to increase the viscosity of low viscosity dispersions. Thickeners suitable for use in the practice of the present invention may be any known in the art such as for instance poly acrylate type or associate non ionic thickeners such as modified cellulose ethers. For example suitable thickeners include ALCOGUM VEP II trademark of Alco Chemical Corporation RHEOVIS and VISCALEX trademarks of Ciba Ceigy UCAR Thickener 146 or ETHOCEL or METHOCEL trademarks of the The Dow Chemical Company and PARAGUM 241 trademarks of Para Chem Southern Inc. or BERMACOL trademark of Akzo Nobel or AQUALON trademark of Hercules or ACUSOL trademark of Rohm and Haas . Thickeners may be used in any amount necessary to prepare a dispersion of desired viscosity.

The ultimate viscosity of the dispersion is therefore controllable. Addition of the thickener to the dispersion including the amount of filler may be done with conventional means to result in viscosities as needed. Viscosities of thus dispersions may reach 3000 cP Brookfield spindle 4 with 20 rpm with moderate thickener dosing up to 4 preferably below 3 based on 100 phr of polymer dispersion . The starting polymer dispersion as described has an initial viscosity prior to formulation with fillers and additives between 20 and 1000 cP Brookfield viscosity measured at room temperature with spindle RV3 at 50 rpm . Still more preferably the starting viscosity of the dispersion may be between about 100 to about 600 cP.

Also embodiments of the present invention are characterized by their stability when a filler is added to the polymer stabilizing agent. In this context stability refers to the stability of viscosity of the resultant aqueous polyolefin dispersion. In order to test the stability the viscosity is measured over a period of time. Preferably viscosity measured at 20 C. should remain 10 of the original viscosity over a period of 24 hours when stored at ambient temperature.

The aqueous dispersion of the present invention may contain particles having an average particle size of from about 0.1 to about 5 microns. The coatings obtained therefrom exhibit excellent moisture resistance water repellency oil and grease resistance thermal adhesion to paper and other natural and synthetic substrates such as metal wood glass synthetic fibers and films and woven and non woven fabrics.

The aqueous dispersions disclosed herein may be used as coatings as articles such as frothed foams and adhesives for bonding and sealing various substrates especially corrugated boxes and plastics films such as BOPP polyester and polyamide films. Aqueous dispersion of the present invention may be used for such applications as a binder of a coating or ink composition for a coated paper paper board wall paper or other cellulose based article. The aqueous dispersion may be coated by various techniques for example by spray coating curtain coating coating with a roll coater or a gravure coater brush coating or dipping. The coating is preferably dried by heating the coated substrate to 70 150 C. for 1 to 300 sec.

Examples of aqueous dispersions that may be incorporated into the additive composition of the present disclosure are disclosed for instance in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0100754 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0192365 PCT Publication No. WO 2005 021638 and PCT Publication No. WO 2005 021622 which are all incorporated herein by reference.

Some embodiments of the foams formed from the aqueous dispersion disclosed herein may have a compression set value as defined below at testing conditions of 80 C. 20 minutes and 0.5 psig of less than 80 percent. In other embodiments the foams may have a compression set of less than 70 percent less than 65 percent in other embodiments and less than 60 percent in yet other embodiments.

Some embodiments of the foams formed from the aqueous dispersion disclosed herein may have a compression set value as defined below at testing conditions of 80 C. 20 minutes and 0.25 psig of less than 70 percent. In other embodiments the foams may have a compression set of less than 60 percent less than 55 percent in other embodiments and less than 50 percent in yet other embodiments.

Some embodiments of the foams formed from the aqueous dispersion disclosed herein may have a compression set value as defined below at testing conditions of 80 C. 20 minutes and 0.1 psig of less than 60 percent. In other embodiments the foams may have a compression set of less than 50 percent less than 45 percent in other embodiments and less than 40 percent in yet other embodiments.

The dispersions of the present invention may be formed by any number of methods recognized by those having skill in the art. In selected embodiments the dispersions may be formed by using techniques for example in accordance with the procedures as described in WO2005 021638 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In a specific embodiment a multi block interpolymer a stabilizing agent and a filler are melt kneaded in an extruder along with water and a neutralizing agent such as ammonia potassium hydroxide or a combination of the two to form a dispersion. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a number of other neutralizing agents may be used. In some embodiments the filler may be added after blending the base polymer and stabilizing agent. In some embodiments the dispersion is first diluted to contain about 1 to about 3 by weight water and then subsequently further diluted to comprise greater than about 25 by weight water.

Any melt kneading means known in the art may be used. In some embodiments a kneader a BANBURY mixer single screw extruder or a multi screw extruder is used. A process for producing the dispersions in accordance with the present invention is not particularly limited. One preferred process for example is a process comprising melt kneading the above mentioned components according to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 756 659 and 6 455 636.

Polymer resin s in the form of pellets powder or flakes for example is fed from the feeder to an inlet of the extruder where the resin is melted or compounded. In some embodiments the dispersing agent is added to the resin through and along with the resin and in other embodiments the dispersing agent is provided separately to the twin screw extruder . The resin melt is then delivered from the mix and convey zone to an emulsification zone of the extruder where the initial amount of water and base from the reservoirs and is added through inlet . In some embodiments dispersing agent may be added additionally or exclusively to the water stream. In some embodiments the emulsified mixture is further diluted with additional water inlet from reservoir in a dilution and cooling zone of the extruder . Typically the dispersion is diluted to at least 30 weight percent water in the cooling zone. In addition the diluted mixture may be diluted any number of times until the desired dilution level is achieved. In some embodiments water is not added into the twin screw extruder but rather to a stream containing the resin melt after the melt has exited from the extruder. In this manner steam pressure build up in the extruder is eliminated.

In particular embodiments it may be desired to utilize the dispersion in the form of foam. When preparing foams it is often preferred to froth the dispersion. For example a froth and foam may be prepared as described in WO2005 021622 which is fully incorporated herein by reference. Preferred in the practice of this invention is the use of a gas as a frothing agent. Examples of suitable frothing agents include gases and or mixtures of gases such as air carbon dioxide nitrogen argon helium and the like. Particularly preferable is the use of air as a frothing agent. Frothing agents are typically introduced by mechanical introduction of a gas into a liquid to form a froth. This technique is known as mechanical frothing. In preparing a frothed dispersion it is preferred to mix all components and then blend the air or gas into the mixture using equipment such as an OAKES MONDO or FIRESTONE frother.

Surfactants useful for preparing a stable froth are referred to herein as foam stabilizers. Foam stabilizers are useful in the practice of the present invention. Those having ordinary skill in this field will recognize that a number of foam stabilizers may be used. Foam stabilizers may include for example sulfates succinamates and sulfosuccinamates.

An aqueous dispersion of an ethylene octene interpolymer having hard and soft segments is formed in accordance with the procedures as described in WO2005 021638 and briefly described above with respect to . Dispersion 1 is formed using an ethylene octene interpolymer having the following properities as shown below 

The surfactant system used is UNICID 350 a C26 carboxylic acid obtained from Baker Petrolite acid value 115 mg KOH g . UNICID is used at a loading of 3 weight percent based on the weight of the ethylene octene interpolymer. The addition for all other ingredients is also based on the weight of the ethylene octene interpolymer.

The ethylene octene interpolymer is dry blended with the surfactant. The mixture is then extruded at 4.5 kg h 10 lbs h using a Berstorff ZE25 36 L D 450 rpm and a Schenck Mechatron loss in weight feeder. An ISCO dual syringe pump meters a 45 w w potassium hydroxide solution at 0.9 cc min and DI water at 1.2 cc min. The potassium hydroxide solution and deionized DI water are mixed and pre heated through a 24 inch core shell heat exchanger 20 foot inch tubing core tempered by a DC200 silicone oil bath set at 150 C. and fed to the initial aqueous IA injector. Dilution water is delivered to the dilution water injector at a rate of 100 cc min using an ISCO dual syringe pump. The dilution water is also passed through a similar pre heater set at 150 C. Back pressure on the barrel is provided via a GO Circor BP 60 back pressure regulator adjusted to maintain about 17.2 bar 250 psig upstream pressure.

The dispersion product is collected directly after the back pressure regulator allowed to cool filtered and analyzed for particle size pH solids content and viscosity. The aqueous dispersion produced has a solids content of 55 weight percent a pH of 11.4 and a viscosity RV 2 spindle 22.5 C. 100 rpm of 65 centipoise. The dispersed polymer phase measured by a Coulter LS230 particle analyzer consists of an average volume diameter particle size of 0.6 microns.

A froth and foam Sample 1 is then prepared from Dispersion 1 in a manner consistent with Example 1 of WO2005 021622. Comparative foam samples are made using conventional ethylene octene copolymer dispersions formed in a similar manner to that described for Dispersion 1 above. Comparative foam sample 1 CS1 is formed using AFFINITY 8200 available from The Dow Chemical Co. Comparative foam Sample 2 CS2 is formed using a blend of AFFINITY EG 8200 with AFFINITY PL1280 an ethylene 1 octene copolymer having a MWD of about 2.5 available from The Dow Chemical Company Comparative Foam Sample 3 CS3 using a similar blend of AFFINITY EG 8200 with AFFINITY PL1280 with 20 weight percent polypropylene fibers added.

The foams are evaluated for compression set at various temperatures and pressures. Compression set testing is used to determine the ability of materials to maintain elastic properties after prolonged compressive stress. To perform the compression set test the thickness of the original specimen is measured. The specimen is then placed between spacers and in the compression device. The specimen is compressed to a fraction of its original height under a given load of 6.9 millibar gage 17.2 millibar gage or 34.5 millibar gage 0.1 psig 0.25 psig 0.5 psig . Shortly after assembly the compression device is placed in an oven at a specified temperature for a given time period. After removing the sample from the oven pressure is relieved from the specimen and the specimen is allowed to cool to room temperature before measuring the final thickness. Compression set is expressed as a percentage of the original thickness that remained set i.e. did not recover a sample having a thickness of 1.00 cm before compression and 0.95 cm after the test would have a compression set value of 5 i.e. it did not recover 5 of its original thickness. The results of the compression set tests are given in Table 1 where the tests were performed at the indicated pressure at a temperature of 85 C. and a time period of 20 minutes.

As the results in Table 1 illustrate foams formed from dispersion Sample 1 had a reduced amount of foam collapse as compared to foams formed from conventional ethylene octene copolymers in a compression set test. The reduced foam collapse additionally indicates improved heat resistance provided by the block structure of the block interpolymer used in Dispersion 1.

A sample of 150 parts of Dispersion 1 is blended in a conventional mixing bowl and taking care not to entrain air while blending with 16.5 parts of a 10 solution 1.65 parts active of the selected frothing surfactant potassium stearate and with 10.9 parts 0.33 part active of a 2.5 aqueous solution of the hydroxyalkyl cellulose ether METHOCEL E4M hydroxypropyl methylcellulose thickener supplied by The Dow Chemical Company. Froth samples are prepared with a Hobart type stand mixer KitchenAid Professional mixer Model KSM50PWH and a wire whip.

After the initial blend is prepared air is entrained by mechanical frothing using the same mixer and wire whip and by increasing the mixer speed from medium to high over a period of approximately 5 to 10 minutes until a stiff froth is formed. Density of the froth is measured by weighing a 3 oz 89 ml paper cup filled with froth. Once the desired density is reached whipping is stopped. Dispersion densities are often between about 900 to 1000 g L while the resultant whipped density may be about 100 g L to 300 g L. Those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the final density of the whipped dispersion may be controlled as desired by modifying the whipping times for example. In select embodiments the whipped dispersion is formed at a temperature less than the melting point of the dispersed polymer. More preferably the dispersion is formed at about 25 C 10 C of the melting point of the dispersed polymer.

AFFINITY EG8200 available from The Dow Chemical Company Midland Mich. with 2 UNICID 350 and 1 HYSTRENE 4516 51.7 active 1 STEPANOL WAT k from an 39 active solution and the METHOCEL is formulated into the dispersion once the dispersion is cooled to room temperature CS1 .

70 30 blend of AFFINITY EG8200 AFFINITY PL1280 both available from The Dow Chemical Company Midland Mich. with 2 UNICID 350 and 1 HYSTRENE 4516 52.2 active 1 STEPANOL WAT k from an 39 active solution and 0.35 METHOCEL is formulated into the dispersion once the dispersion is cooled to room temperature CS 2 .

70 30 blend of AFFINITY EG8200 AFFINITY PL1280 both available from The Dow Chemical Company Midland Mich. with 2 UNICID 350 and 1 HYSTRENE 4516 52.2 active 1 STEPANOL WAT k from an 39 active solution and 0.35 METHOCEL is formulated into the dispersion once the dispersion is cooled to room temperature. Polypropylene fiber is slowly added to the dispersion in the standard mixing bowl as it is mixed on low. Once all of the fiber is added mix an additional one minute and then begin the frothing process by increasing the mixer speed to high CS3 .

Froth prepared as described above is spread on release paper supported by a stiffer paper sheet and is smoothed to a height of about 0.25 in 0.63 cm or as desired. The froth is placed in a Blue M forced air oven at drying temperature of approximately 75 to 100 C. 167 to 212 F. for about 10 minutes. The oven temperature setting is then increased to approximately 120 to 1.35 C. 248 to 275 F. and takes approximately 17 minutes to reach set temperature. The froth remains in the oven for approximately 6 minutes additionally and the dry foam sheet is recovered from the oven.

Six samples measuring two inches wide by two inches in height are cut from a large polyolefin foam sample. Three sample weights are constructed weighing 197 g 455 g and 907 g corresponding with the desired loads of 0.1 0.25 and 0.5 psi on the 4 sq in samples. Two sample patches are placed under each load and heated in an 85 C. oven for 20 min. The samples are removed from the oven and the weights are removed. Compressed samples are allowed to cool and final thickness measurements are taken.

Comparison of samples compressed at 85 C. for 20 minutes under various loads are presented in the Table below and in .

As can be seen from the above polyolefin froth foams formed from the dispersion of multi block olefin interpolymers may have a number of useful properties. Modified frothed foams are also within the purview of this invention and can include micro cavity containing thermoplastic foams such as those disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 700 644. The micro cavity containing additives include such materials as super absorbent polymers SAP for articles such as infant and children diapers adult incontinence pants feminine hygiene pads household cleaning articles pet urine absorption mats pads and garbage bag liquid absorbent pads.

Advantageously the present invention provides for dispersions of multi block olefin interpolymers. In some embodiments the dispersions may be aqueous. These block interpolymers may have a soft low crystallinity segment rich in comonomer and a hard segment high crystallinity which is rather low in comonomer content. This heterogeneous structure may allow for a polymer having the same overall comonomer content and crystallinity of a standard homogeneous ethylene copolymer with a broader melting range. Coatings and articles produced from dispersions disclosed herein may advantageously have a higher heat resistance a greater resistance to compression set at elevated temperatures and may exhibit a broader operating window in various extrusion and molding process.

These dispersions may be used as coatings and as articles such as frothed foams. Alternative uses for these dispersions include adhesives for bonding and sealing various substrates especially corrugated boxes and plastics films such as biaxially oriented polypropylene BOPP polyester and polyamide films. Additionally these foams may be used in the construction of diapers and feminine hygiene pads as the liquid absorbent and distribution layer. Today such diapers and feminine hygiene pads are packaged tightly. Foams formed from dispersions disclosed herein may provide significantly lower compression set at 40 C. allowing near full recovery of the original foam thickness a requirement for the end product.

In another aspect the multi block interpolymers may be used as a coating or adhesive where heat resistance is required. Many automotive applications require heat resistance at temperatures of 60 C. and higher. A dispersions produced using a standard metallocene based ethylene octene copolymer having density of 0.870 g cc and a melt index 12 at 190 C. of 5 g 10 min. will fail as a coating or adhesive at temperatures of 60 C. and higher. A coating or adhesive based on a dispersion on a multi block olefin interpolymer having density of 0.870 g cc a melt index 12 at 190 C. of 5 g 10 min. and a hard segment content of 30 may achieve sufficient heat resistance.

In addition to the mechanical emulsification of a single multi block interpolymer blends of different multi block interpolymers and blends of multi block interpolymers and other polyolefins and plastics may be produced to enhance certain properties such as adhesion to specific substrates such as paper or glass and heat resistance.

In another embodiment of the present invention a dispersion of catalytic linear multi block olefins may be used in connection with other dispersions to form a blended dispersion product.

In another embodiment of the present invention a dispersion of catalytic linear multi block olefins may be dispersed into a monomer such as acrylonitrile. This monomer may be later polymerized which has the effect of dispersing the multi block olefin polymer in a secondary polymer.

In addition to the applications described above catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer as described herein may be useful in a number of other applications.

Accordingly in one application dispersions of catalytic linear multi block olefins may be useful in cellulose based articles especially having a specific volume of less than 3 cc gm for example paper and board structures incorporating a compound comprising an aqueous polyolefin dispersion resulting in articles having improved properties. In various embodiments the articles can have improved oil and grease resistance improved water resistance controlled coefficients of friction thermal embossability thermal formability improved wet and dry strength or an improved softness among others. Such techniques and compositions are disclosed in U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 750 466 which is expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Thus in one application dispersions of catalytic linear multi block olefins may be useful in providing a cellulose based article having especially those having a specific volume of less than 3 cc gm including a cellulose based composition and an applied compound. The applied compound at the time of application may include a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer and at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer comprises at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment. The article may have an oil and grease resistance value of at least 9 as measured using the Kit test at an exposure time of 15 seconds.

Thus in one application dispersions of catalytic linear multi block olefins may be useful in providing a cellulose based article especially those having a specific volume of less than 3 cc gm including a cellulose based composition and an applied compound. The applied compound at the time of application may include a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer and at least one dispersing agent wherein the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer comprises at least one hard segment and at least one soft segment. The cellulose based article may have a water resistance value of less than about 10 g m 120 seconds as measured via the Cobb test.

The Kit test the kit value of samples may be determined using TAPPI T559 cm 02. The test was performed flat as described in the TAPPI test. This involves putting five separate drops of oil onto the board s surface and inspecting the board after a specified amount of exposure time 15 seconds to see if any pronounced darkening of the paper appears. A modified Kit test run at elevated temperature s can be useful to distinguish deposited dispersions made using the catalytic linear multi block polymers especially for ethylene based block polymers versus other ethylene based random copolymers. Such elevated temperatures for testing can be as high as about 80 C. but preferably tested around 50 C. Film layers made using deposited dispersions from the catalytic linear ethylenic multi block polymers show higher Kit values at 50 C. than Kit values also at 50 C. for random ethylene polymer based deposited dispersions even at similar overall ethylene polymer density and melt index.

The Cobb test Cobb tests may be performed in accordance with ASTM D3285 93. The exposure time was 2 minutes. The test involves a known volume of water 100 ml being poured onto a specific area of the board s surface 100 cm . The board is weighed before and after the exposure and the difference between the two can then be expressed as the weight per unit area of water absorbed in that given time the lower the Cobb value the better the result. A modified Cobb test run at elevated temperature s can be useful to distinguish deposited dispersions made using the catalytic linear multi block polymers especially for ethylene based block polymers versus other ethylene based random copolymers. Such elevated temperatures for testing can be as high as about 80 C. but preferably tested around 50 C. Film layers made using deposited dispersions from the catalytic linear ethylenic multi block polymers show lower Cobb values at 50 C. than Cobb values also at 50 C. for random ethylene polymer based deposited dispersions even at similar overall ethylene polymer density and melt index.

Thus embodiments disclosed herein may relate to cellulose based compositions which are generally referred to as paper and or paperboard products i.e. other than paper towels such as newsprint uncoated groundwood coated groundwood coated free sheet uncoated free sheet packaging and industrial papers linerboard corrugating medium recycled paperboard bleached paperboard writing paper typing paper photo quality paper wallpaper etc. Such compositions can generally be formed in accordance with the present invention from at least one paper web.

For example in one embodiment the paper product can contain a single layered paper web formed from a blend of fibers. In another embodiment the paper product can contain a multi layered paper i.e. stratified web. Furthermore the paper product can also be a single or multi ply product e.g. more than one paper web wherein one or more of the plies may contain a paper web formed according to the present invention. Normally the basis weight of a paper product of the present invention is between about 10 to about 525 grams per square meter gsm . Normally the specific volume of a paper product in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is between about 0.3 to about 2 grams per cubic centimeter g cc .

Any of a variety of materials can be used to form the paper products of the present invention. For example the material used to make paper products can include fibers formed by a variety of pulping processes such as kraft pulp sulfite pulp thermomechanical pulp etc.

Papermaking fibers useful in the process of the present invention include any cellulosic fibers that are known to be useful for making cellulosic base sheets. Suitable fibers include virgin softwood and hardwood fibers along with non woody fibers as well as secondary i.e. recycled papermaking fibers and mixtures thereof in all proportions. Non cellulosic synthetic fibers can also be included in the aqueous suspension. Papermaking fibers may be derived from wood using any known pulping process including kraft and sulfite chemical pulps.

Fibers suitable for making paper webs comprise any natural or synthetic cellulosic fibers including but not limited to nonwoody fibers such as cotton abaca kenaf sabai grass flax esparto grass straw jute hemp bagasse milkweed floss fibers and pineapple leaf fibers and woody fibers such as those obtained from deciduous and coniferous trees including softwood fibers such as northern and southern softwood kraft fibers hardwood fibers such as eucalyptus maple birch and aspen. Woody fibers can be prepared in high yield or low yield forms and can be pulped in any known method including kraft sulfite high yield pulping methods and other known pulping methods. Fibers prepared from organosolv pulping methods can also be used including the fibers and methods disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 793 898 issued Dec. 27 1988 to Laamanen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 594 130 issued Jun. 10 1986 to Chang et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 3 585 104. Useful fibers can also be produced by anthraquinone pulping exemplified by U.S. Pat. No. 5 595 628 issued Jan. 21 1997 to Gordon et al.

In one embodiment a portion of the fibers such as up to 50 or less by dry weight or from about 5 to about 30 by dry weight can be synthetic fibers such as rayon polyolefin fibers polyester fibers bicomponent sheath core fibers multi component binder fibers and the like. An exemplary polyethylene fiber is PULPEX available from Hercules Inc. Wilmington Del. . Any known bleaching method can be used. Synthetic cellulose fiber types include rayon in all its varieties and other fibers derived from viscose or chemically modified cellulose. Chemically treated natural cellulosic fibers can be used such as mercerized pulps chemically stiffened or crosslinked fibers or sulfonated fibers. For good mechanical properties in using papermaking fibers it can be desirable that the fibers be relatively undamaged and largely unrefined or only lightly refined. While recycled fibers can be used virgin fibers are generally useful for their mechanical properties and lack of contaminants. Mercerized fibers regenerated cellulosic fibers cellulose produced by microbes rayon and other cellulosic material or cellulosic derivatives can be used. Suitable papermaking fibers can also include recycled fibers virgin fibers or mixes thereof. In certain embodiments capable of high bulk and good compressive properties the fibers can have a Canadian Standard Freeness of at least 200 more specifically at least 300 more specifically still at least 400 and most specifically at least 500. In some other embodiments portions of the fibers up to about 90 by dry weight may be synthetic fibers.

Other papermaking fibers that can be used in the present disclosure include paper broke or recycled fibers and high yield fibers. High yield pulp fibers are those papermaking fibers produced by pulping processes providing a yield of about 65 or greater more specifically about 75 or greater and still more specifically about 75 to about 95 . Yield is the resulting amount of processed fibers expressed as a percentage of the initial wood mass. Such pulping processes include bleached chemithermomechanical pulp BCTMP chemithermomechanical pulp CTMP pressure pressure thermomechanical pulp PTMP thermomechanical pulp TMP thermomechanical chemical pulp TMCP high yield sulfite pulps and high yield Kraft pulps all of which leave the resulting fibers with high levels of lignin. High yield fibers are well known for their stiffness in both dry and wet states relative to typical chemically pulped fibers.

In some embodiments the pulp fibers may include softwood fibers having an average fiber length of greater than 1 mm and particularly from about 2 to 5 mm based on a length weighted average. Such softwood fibers can include but are not limited to northern softwood southern softwood redwood red cedar hemlock pine e.g. southern pines spruce e.g. black spruce combinations thereof and the like. Exemplary commercially available pulp fibers suitable for the present invention include those available from Neenah Paper Inc. under the trade designations LONGLAC 19. 

In some embodiments hardwood fibers such as eucalyptus maple birch aspen and the like can also be used. In certain instances eucalyptus fibers may be particularly desired to increase the softness of the web. Eucalyptus fibers can also enhance the brightness increase the opacity and change the pore structure of the paper to increase the wicking ability of the paper web. Moreover if desired secondary fibers obtained from recycled materials may be used such as fiber pulp from sources such as for example newsprint reclaimed paperboard and office waste. Further other natural fibers can also be used in the present invention such as abaca sabai grass milkweed floss pineapple leaf and the like. In addition in some instances synthetic fibers can also be utilized. Some suitable synthetic fibers can include but are not limited to rayon fibers ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer fibers polyolefin fibers polyesters and the like.

As stated the paper product of the present invention can be formed from one or more paper webs. The paper webs can be single layered or multi layered. For instance in one embodiment the paper product contains a single layered paper web layer that is formed from a blend of fibers. For example in some instances eucalyptus and softwood fibers can be homogeneously blended to form the single layered paper web.

In another embodiment the paper product can contain a multi layered paper web that is formed from a stratified pulp furnish having various principal layers. For example in one embodiment the paper product contains three layers where one of the outer layers includes eucalyptus fibers while the other two layers include northern softwood kraft fibers. In another embodiment one outer layer and the inner layer can contain eucalyptus fibers while the remaining outer layer can contain northern softwood kraft fibers. If desired the three principle layers may also include blends of various types of fibers. For example in one embodiment one of the outer layers can contain a blend of eucalyptus fibers and northern softwood kraft fibers. However it should be understood that the multi layered paper web can include any number of layers and can be made from various types of fibers. For instance in one embodiment the multi layered paper web can be formed from a stratified pulp furnish having only two principal layers.

In accordance with the present invention various properties of a paper product such as described above can be optimized. For instance strength e.g. wet tensile dry tensile tear etc. softness lint level slough level and the like are some examples of properties of the paper product that may be optimized in accordance with the present invention. However it should be understood that each of the properties mentioned above need not be optimized in every instance. For example in certain applications it may be desired to form a paper product that has increased strength without regard to softness.

In this regard in one embodiment of the present invention at least a portion of the fibers of the paper product can be treated with hydrolytic enzymes to increase strength and reduce lint. In particular the hydrolytic enzymes can randomly react with the cellulose chains at or near the surface of the papermaking fibers to create single aldehyde groups on the fiber surface which are part of the fiber. These aldehyde groups become sites for cross linking with exposed hydroxyl groups of other fibers when the fibers are formed and dried into sheets thus increasing sheet strength. In addition by randomly cutting or hydrolyzing the fiber cellulose predominantly at or near the surface of the fiber degradation of the interior of the fiber cell wall is avoided or minimized. Consequently a paper product made from these fibers alone or made from blends of these fibers with untreated pulp fibers show an increase in strength properties such as dry tensile wet tensile tear etc.

Other examples of useful cellulose based compositions useful in the present invention include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 837 970 6 824 650 6 863 940 and in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US20050192402 and 20040149412 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Cellulosic webs prepared in accordance with the present invention can be used for a wide variety of applications such as paper and paperboard products i.e. other than paper towels newsprint uncoated groundwood coated groundwood coated free sheet uncoated free sheet packaging and industrial papers linerboard corrugating medium recycled paperboard and bleached paperboard. Webs made according to the present invention can be used in diapers sanitary napkins composite materials molded paper products paper cups paper plates and the like. Materials prepared according to the present invention can also be used in various textile applications particularly in textile webs comprising a blend of cellulosic materials and wool nylon silk or other polyamide or protein based fibers.

The paper products may contain a variety of fiber types both natural and synthetic. In one embodiment the paper products comprises hardwood and softwood fibers. The overall ratio of hardwood pulp fibers to softwood pulp fibers within the product including individual sheets making up the product may vary broadly. The ratio of hardwood pulp fibers to softwood pulp fibers may range from about 9 1 to about 1 9 more specifically from about 9 1 to about 1 4 and most specifically from about 9 1 to about 1 1. In one embodiment of the present invention the hardwood pulp fibers and softwood pulp fibers may be blended prior to forming the paper sheet thereby producing a homogenous distribution of hardwood pulp fibers and softwood pulp fibers in the z direction of the sheet. In another embodiment of the present invention the hardwood pulp fibers and softwood pulp fibers may be layered so as to give a heterogeneous distribution of hardwood pulp fibers and softwood pulp fibers in the z direction of the sheet. In another embodiment the hardwood pulp fibers may be located in at least one of the outer layers of the paper product and or sheets wherein at least one of the inner layers may comprise softwood pulp fibers. In still another embodiment the paper product contains secondary or recycled fibers optionally containing virgin or synthetic fibers.

In addition synthetic fibers may also be utilized in the present invention. The discussion herein regarding pulp fibers is understood to include synthetic fibers. Some suitable polymers that may be used to form the synthetic fibers include but are not limited to polyolefins such as polyethylene polypropylene polybutylene and the like polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate poly glycolic acid PGA poly lactic acid PLA poly malic acid PMLA poly caprolactone PCL poly dioxanone PDS poly 3 hydroxybutyrate PHB and the like and polyamides such as nylon and the like. Synthetic or natural cellulosic polymers including but not limited to cellulosic esters cellulosic ethers cellulosic nitrates cellulosic acetates cellulosic acetate butyrates ethyl cellulose regenerated celluloses such as viscose rayon and the like cotton flax hemp and mixtures thereof may be used in the present invention. The synthetic fibers may be located in one or all of the layers and sheets comprising the or paper product.

Cellulose based articles can be formed by a variety of processes known to those skilled in the art. Machines may be configured to have a forming section a press section a drying section and depending on the article formed optionally a reel. Examples of the details of the process steps and schematic illustrations may be found in Properties of Paper An Introduction 2nd edition W. Scott an J. Abbott TAPPI Press 1995. In a simplified description of the process typically a dilute suspension of pulp fibers is supplied by a head box and deposited via a sluice in a uniform dispersion onto a forming fabric of a conventional papermaking machine. The suspension of pulp fibers may be diluted to any consistency which is typically used in conventional papermaking processes. For example the suspension may contain from about 0.01 to about 1.5 percent by weight pulp fibers suspended in water. Water is removed from the suspension of pulp fibers to form a uniform layer of pulp fibers. Other paper making processes paper board manufacturing processes and the like may be utilized with the present invention. For example the processes disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 423 183 may be used.

The pulp fibers may be any high average fiber length pulp low average fiber length pulp or mixtures of the same. The high average fiber length pulp typically have an average fiber length from about 1.5 mm to about 6 mm. An exemplary high average fiber length wood pulp includes one available from the Neenah Paper Inc. under the trade designation LONGLAC 19.

The low average fiber length pulp may be for example certain virgin hardwood pulps and secondary i.e. recycled fiber pulp from sources such as for example newsprint reclaimed paperboard and office waste. The low average fiber length pulps typically have an average fiber length of less than about 1.2 mm for example from 0.7 mm to 1.2 mm.

Mixtures of high average fiber length and low average fiber length pulps may contain a significant proportion of low average fiber length pulps. For example mixtures may contain more than about 50 percent by weight low average fiber length pulp and less than about 50 percent by weight high average fiber length pulp. One exemplary mixture contains 75 percent by weight low average fiber length pulp and about 25 percent high average fiber length pulp.

The pulp fibers used in the present invention may be unrefined or may be beaten to various degrees of refinement. Small amounts of wet strength resins and or resin binders may be added to improve strength and abrasion resistance. Useful binders and wet strength resins include for example KYMENE 557H available from the Hercules chemical Company and PAREZ 631 available from American Cyanamid Inc. Cross linking agents and or hydrating agents may also be added to the pulp mixture. Debonding agents may be added to the pulp mixture to reduce the degree of hydrogen bonding if a very open or loose nonwoven pulp fiber web is desired. One exemplary debonding agent is available from the Quaker Chemical Company Conshohocken Pa. under the trade designation QUAKER 2008. The addition of certain debonding agents in the amount of for example 1 to 4 percent by weight of the composite also appears to reduce the measured static and dynamic coefficients of friction and improve the abrasion resistance of the continuous filament rich side of the composite fabric. The de bonder is believed to act as a lubricant or friction reducer.

When treating paper webs in accordance with the present disclosure the additive composition containing the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer dispersion can be applied to the web topically or can be incorporated into the web by being pre mixed with the fibers that are used to form the web. When applied topically the additive composition can be applied to the web when the web is wet or dry. In one embodiment the additive composition may be applied topically to the web during a creping process. For instance in one embodiment the additive composition may be sprayed onto the web or onto a heated dryer drum to adhere the web to the dryer drum. The web can then be creped from the dryer drum. When the additive composition is applied to the web and then adhered to the dryer drum the composition may be uniformly applied over the surface area of the web or may be applied according to a particular pattern.

When topically applied to a paper web the additive composition may be sprayed onto the web extruded onto the web or printed onto the web. When extruded onto the web any suitable extrusion device may be used such as a slot coat extruder or a meltblown dye extruder. When printed onto the web any suitable printing device may be used. For example an inkjet printer or a rotogravure printing device may be used.

The dispersion may be incorporated at any point in the paper manufacturing process. The point during the process at which the dispersion is incorporated into the cellulose based composition may depend upon the desired end properties of the cellulose based product as will be detailed later. Incorporation points may include pre treatment of pulp co application in the wet end of the process post treatment after drying but on the paper machine and topical post treatment. Incorporation of the dispersion of the present invention onto or in the cellulose based structure may be achieved by any of several methods as incorporated by reference and known by those of ordinary skill in the art.

In yet another application a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer dispersion formed in accordance with the disclosure is suitable for impregnating a fibrous structure. In certain cases a fibrous structure impregnated with such a stiffening composition can provide adequate stiffness elasticity resilience adhesion and shape retention for use in shoe stiffeners such as toe boxes counters and the like. Suitable techniques for impregnation are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 300 993 which is expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that a desirable degree or amount of impregnation can range from a partial saturation of the fibrous structure to a complete saturation of the fibrous structure. The desired degree of impregnation can depend upon variables including the nature of the fiber being impregnated and the nature of impregnate for example. One skilled in the art will also appreciate that the intended end properties of the impregnated structure will influence the selection of the specific ingredients fibers and dispersions for example and processing parameters.

In yet another application dispersions of the catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer may be useful as toner compositions wherein at least one selected from the group consisting of a colorant and a magnetic pigment is used with the dispersion and wherein the dispersion has an average volume diameter particle size from about 0.3 to about 8.0 microns. Techniques for formulating such toner compositions are discussed in co pending co assigned application U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 779 126 filed on Mar. 3 2006 which is expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Briefly after forming the dispersion at least a portion of the liquid may be removed to form toner particles. In selected embodiments substantially all of the water may be removed to form base toner particles. In one embodiment drying of the dispersion may be accomplished by spray drying the dispersion. As is known in the art spray drying involves the atomization of a liquid feedstock into a spray of droplets and contacting the droplets with hot air in a drying chamber. The sprays are typically produced by either rotary wheel or nozzle atomizers. Evaporation of moisture from the droplets and formation of dry particles proceed under controlled temperature and airflow conditions. Powder is discharged substantially continuously from the drying chamber. Operating conditions and dryer design are selected according to the drying characteristics of the product and powder specification.

Thus in one embodiment a dispersion may be formed and shipped to another location where the dispersion is subjected to a post treatment process such as spray drying to form a toner powder.

In select embodiments it is advantageous to add auxiliary fine particles to the base toner particles in order to improve the fluidity the electrification stability or the blocking resistance at a high temperature etc. The auxiliary fine particles to be fixed on the surface of the base toner particles may be suitably selected for use among various inorganic or organic fine particles.

As the inorganic fine particles various carbides such as silicon carbide boron carbide titanium carbide zirconium carbide hafnium carbide vanadium carbide tantalum carbide niobium carbide tungsten carbide chromium carbide molybdenum carbide and calcium carbide various nitrides such as boron nitride titanium nitride and zirconium nitride various borides such as zirconium boride various oxides such as titanium oxide calcium oxide magnesium oxide zinc oxide copper oxide aluminum oxide cerium oxide silica and colloidal silica various titanate compounds such as calcium titanate magnesium titanate and strontium titanate phosphate compounds such as calcium phosphate sulfides such as molybdenum disulfide fluorides such as magnesium fluoride and carbon fluoride various metal soaps such as aluminum stearate calcium stearate zinc stearate and magnesium stearate talc bentonite various carbon black and conductive carbon black magnetite and ferrite may for example be employed. As the organic fine particles fine particles of a styrene resin an acrylic resin an epoxy resin or a melamine resin may for example be employed.

Among such auxiliary fine particles silica titanium oxide alumina zinc oxide various carbon black or conductive carbon black may for example be particularly preferably employed. Further such auxiliary fine particles may include the above mentioned inorganic or organic fine particles where the surface of the particles is treated by surface treatment such as hydrophobic treatment by a treating agent such as a silane coupling agent a titanate coupling agent a silicone oil a modified silicone oil a silicone varnish a fluorinated silane coupling agent a fluorinated silicone oil or a coupling agent having amino groups or quaternary ammonium bases. Such treating agents may be used in combination as a mixture of two or more of them.

As a method for adding the auxiliary fine particles to the base toner particles a method is known to add and blend them by means of a high speed stirring machine such as a Henschel mixer. However in order to improve the blocking resistance at a high temperature it is preferred to have the auxiliary fine particles fixed on the surface of the base toner particles. In the present invention fixing means an addition method employing an apparatus capable of exerting a compression sharing stress hereinafter referred to as a compression shearing treatment apparatus or an apparatus capable of melting or softening the surface of the base toner particles hereinafter referred to as a particle surface melting treatment apparatus . By such fixing treatment the auxiliary fine particles may be firmly be fixed to the surface of the base toner particles without substantial pulverization of the base toner particles whereby blocking resistance during the storage at a high temperature may be improved and it is possible to produce a toner which is less likely to bring about fusion to components of a copying machine or a printer even in a continuous copying operation.

The above mentioned compression shearing treatment apparatus is constructed to have a narrow clearance defined by a head surface and a head surface a head surface and a wall surface or a wall surface and a wall surface which are mutually mobile while a distance is maintained so that the particles to be treated are forcibly passed through the clearance whereby a compression stress and a shearing stress will be exerted to the surface of the particles without substantially pulverizing them. As the compression shearing treatment apparatus to be used a mechanofusion apparatus manufactured by Hosokawa Micron K.K. may for example be mentioned.

The above mentioned particle surface melting treatment apparatus is usually constructed so that a mixture of the base toner fine particles and the auxiliary fine particles is instantaneously heated to a temperature of at least the melting initiation temperature by means of for example a hot air stream thereby to have the auxiliary fine particles fixed. As the particle surface melting treatment apparatus to be used a surfacing system manufactured by Nippon Neumatic K.K. may be employed.

In yet another application dispersions using a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer may be useful as films adhesives or other sealing and or packaging applications. This particular application involves applying a dispersion formulated in accordance with the above disclosure to a substrate. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that any useful substrate may be used. In particular a wide variety of polymer substrates may be used and even more particularly oriented polymers may be used. Such techniques are disclosed for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050271888 which is expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Thus embodiments of the present invention provide heat sealable films that may allow for higher packaging line speeds due to lower heat seal initiation temperatures provide the ability to seal packages over broad operating windows and provide good package integrity.

In other words one or more embodiments of the present invention provide the ability to seal packages over a broad operating window. During startup and shutdown of packaging lines the temperature of the sealing equipment can often deviate sometimes by a large amount from the setpoint. With a packaging film having a low heat seal initiation temperature an adequate seal can still be generated if the sealing equipment is somewhat cooler than desired.

In order to determine the heat seal initiation temperature for each coated weight individual strips 1 inch wide having no backing may be heat sealed from 50 to 140 C. in 10 C. increments using a Packforsk Hot Tack Tester set at 40 psi seal pressure and 0.5 second dwell time. Sealed samples are allowed to equilibrate for at least a day in an ASTM room set at 70 F. 21.1 C. and 50 relative humidity before being pulled on Instron model 4501 tensile testing device at a rate of 10 inches per minute. As used herein the temperature at which a seal strength of 0.5 lb in is achieved is defined as the heat seal initiation temperature.

In yet another application dispersions using a catalytic linear multi block olefin interpolymer may be useful in forming long fiber reinforced thermoplastic concentrates. Techniques for forming such concentrates are disclosed in co pending co assigned 60 697 324 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

All priority documents are herein fully incorporated by reference for all jurisdictions in which such incorporation is permitted. Further all documents cited herein including testing procedures are herein fully incorporated by reference for all jurisdictions in which such incorporation is permitted to the extent such disclosure is consistent with the description of the present invention.

