---

title: Additional content based on intended travel destination
abstract: When users travel to an intended destination, a plurality of information can be beneficial to assist their travel. If a person is traveling to a crowded event, then information can be provided such that congested traffic areas can be provided. There can be financial opportunities available in relation to providing information concerning an intended destination. An advertiser can pay money to have information played about the advertiser when it relates to the intended destination. Furthermore, a user can pay money for detailed data concerning an intended location, such as where cheapest parking is located.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08473198&OS=08473198&RS=08473198
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08473198
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 115 entitled ROUTE MONETIZATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 127 entitled FEDERATED ROUTE PRODUCTION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 139 entitled DESTINATION AUCTIONED THROUGH BUSINESS OF INTEREST .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 151 entitled GENERATIONAL INTELLIGENT NAVIGATION MANIPULATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 167 entitled SOCIAL NETWORK BASED ROUTES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 182 entitled ROUTE TRANSFER BETWEEN DEVICES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 206 entitled AUTOMATIC SPLICES FOR TARGETED ADVERTISEMENTS .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 210 entitled PEDESTRIAN ROUTE PRODUCTION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 219 entitled ROUTE GENERATION BASED UPON ACTIVITY CRITERIA .

The subject specification relates generally to traffic routing and in particular to provided added content based on an intended destination.

Computer driven route planning applications are utilized to aid users in locating points of interest such as particular buildings addresses and the like. Additionally in several existent commercial applications users can vary a zoom level thereby enabling variation of context and detail as a zoom level of a map is altered. For example as a user zooms in on a particular location details such as names of local roads identification and location of police and fire stations identification and location of public services such as libraries museums and the like can be provided to the user. When zooming out the user can glean information from the map such as location of the point of interest within a city state and or country proximity of the point of interest to major freeways proximity of the point of interest to a specific city and the like. In some applications satellite images can be utilized to provide users with additional detail regarding a particular geographic location or region. For example a prospective purchaser of a house can obtain an overhead satellite image of the house thereby enabling the prospective purchaser to view lines of occupation proximity of the house to other adjacent houses and other information that may be pertinent to the user.

Furthermore conventional computer implemented mapping applications often include route planning applications that can be utilized to provide users with directions between different locations. Pursuant to an example a user can provide a route planning application with a beginning point of travel and an end point of travel e.g. beginning and ending addresses . The route planning application can include or utilize representations of roads and intersections and one or more algorithms to output a suggested route of travel. These algorithms can output routes depending upon user selected parameters. For instance a commercial route planning application can include a check box that enables a user to specify that she wishes to avoid highways. Similarly a user can inform the route planning application that she wishes to travel on a shortest route or a route that takes a least amount of time as determined by underlying algorithms . Over the last several years individuals have grown to rely increasingly on route planning applications to aid them in everything from locating a friend s house to planning cross country road trips.

The following discloses a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to disclose some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is disclosed later.

Classical route generation systems provide a vehicle operator with directions from a start point to an intended destination. The directions are typically based upon certain constraints such as having a fastest route a route with shortest distance avoiding highways circumventing toll sections etc. Directions can be produced at a home from a computer and then printed to a paper copy uploaded to an automobile computer system created on the fly though an in vehicle navigation system etc.

The disclosed innovation provides relevant details associated with an intended travel destination to an operator. Information relating to the operator a route and a destination can be gathered and based upon analysis a selection is made on details to present to a vehicle user. A wide assortment of information can be presented to a user ranging from advertisements of businesses near the intended destination to situational information e.g. a traffic accident . The innovation can configure with various financial capabilities whereby fiscal transactions take place in accordance with providing intended destination details.

In a conventional vehicle an operator typically has a relatively large number of activities and functions. In an automotive example in addition to driving there can be distractions from other members in the vehicle operation of cellular telephones meal consumption and the like. It seems illogical to provide an operator with more information that can distract him her from the function of driving and cause a greater likelihood of having an accident. However an unexpected result occurs such that the operator can become a better driver by having quality information that relates to an intended destination. The information can make the operator more aware of details that can become relevant concerning the intended destination. For instance if a user learns of available parking at an intended destination then he she will likely spend less time on a road searching for parking and have a lower chance of having an accident.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification can be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It can be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to disclose concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

A gather component collects input such as route information a user location and contextual data. In order to reach a destination a user can have a route that he she intends to follow through operation of a vehicle e.g. automobile motorcycle bicycle airplane helicopter motorboat self balancing transportation device etc. . Route information collection can take place according to various manners. A computer generated route can be produced on a vehicle navigation system whereby the gather component extracts the route from the navigation system. A user can produce a route from a home computer through an Internet web site the home computer can communicate with the gather component and transfer the route. Moreover learning can take place upon the gather component . For example at 8 30 am on weekdays the user can often drive from her home to her office. The gather component can make note of a driving pattern and infer e.g. through artificial intelligence techniques that a route will be from her home to her office at a requisite time.

In a further embodiment operational patters of more then about one individual can be taken into account to learn information and modify operation of the system . A central server can track implementations of the system in multiple vehicles portable electronic units etc. In an illustrative example company can operate a chain of stores that sell business suits for men. The central server can track that men with a characteristic of being retired typically do not accept detours to pass the suit store even when a relatively high amount of money is offered. The central server can infer e.g. through artificial intelligence techniques that retired men do not desire to take detours past suit stores and the gather component can use the inference result to filter out requests made by the suit store instruct monetization suggestions e.g. suggest to the suit store how much should be offered influence operation of the system etc.

The system can be used to balance traffic business etc. For instance during a popular event where a relatively large number of vehicles are expected to park the system can instruct some people to go to a first parking area e.g. a north parking lot and others to travel to a subsequent parking area e.g. a south parking lot in order to keep traffic flowing smoothly. Similarly if there is an accident or traffic jam the system can route different users with different alternate routes to balance the traffic. A central server can communicate traffic balance information as contextual data to the gather component and the selection component uses the traffic balance information in choosing a detail for disclosure.

A user location can be relevant when determining details to disclose concerning an intended destination. For instance if a user operating an automobile is over two hours away from the intended destination then traffic accident information is likely irrelevant. Traffic pattern changes due to a likely fact that the accident will not be current when the user arrives at the destination since emergency services will eliminate restrictions e.g. blocked lanes will open damaged automobiles will be moved etc. Large amounts of contextual data can become important in determining relevant information to disclose to a user. A non exhaustive list of contextual data includes available details that can be disclosed to a user weather information traffic histories event schedules business sales traffic pattern estimations etc.

The gather component transfers collection results to a selection component . The transfer can be a continuous stream e.g. as information is collected it transfers to the selection component immediately a single block e.g. information is retained in storage and transferred to the selection component as a single event be placed in storage and the selection component reads collection results off the storage etc. The selection component chooses a detail associated with an intended location e.g. intended destination intended route waypoint intended placement on a path etc. to present to a user where the detail choice is based upon route information the user location contextual data or a combination thereof. It is to be appreciated that an intended destination does not have to be a final destination for example the intended destination can be an intermediate destination e.g. a person leaving an office can have a final destination of home but a first intended destination of stopping at a fuel station . Through detailed analysis the selection component can determine a detail that would be beneficial to disclose to a user.

According to one embodiment the chosen detail is a commercial detail such as a product advertisement a coupon information concerning a sale etc. For example if the intended destination is a grocery store then the selection component can choose to information a user about a sale on milk. In a different instance if the intended destination is a rental store then the user can be informed that a bank is located nearby with a goal that the user will stop by the bank to make a financial transaction. In addition a user can be driving a vehicle on a road upon a generated driving path. The system can determine it is twelve noon and a user has not eaten lunch nor has a plan on where to eat lunch e.g. learned through examination of a user schedule monitoring of automobile conversation etc. A commercial detail can be submitted to the user to entice the user to have lunch at a particular restaurant near the road.

Moreover the selection component can choose the detail based upon a financial consideration. A number of businesses near an intended destination can have a desire to have their name be presented to a user. An auction can take place through the selection component or another device such as a remote database where different businesses offer to pay a fee to have a commercial detail presented. However a flat rate can be paid for a set amount of presentations e.g. about 1000 presentations and the selection component determines an appropriate instance in which to disclose a paid commercial detail. Determination by the selection component on if an instance is appropriate can be based upon demographics of a user vehicle occupants detail supplier conditions e.g. disclose a detail stating a store sells umbrellas when there is rainfall manually pushed by a supplier e.g. if a store is not busy then a retailer can communicate to the system to disclose a detail concerning a discount offer etc.

The following is an illustrative operation of the system implemented upon an automobile. A user can be traveling from a suburban area to a metropolitan downtown district to attend a professional baseball game. Along the journey the gather component collects data and transfers the data to the selection component . As the user approaches a stadium in which the baseball game is to played the selection component analyzes the collection results. The selection component can determine to present the user with an available parking lot that is offering discount parking for the game. While portions of the subject specification disclose aspects of the gather component and selection component implementing upon a vehicle it is to be appreciated that there can be other implementations e.g. upon a personal electronic device at a remote location etc. .

A search component locates sources of route information a user location and contextual data and extracts at least some details from located sources commonly done through utilization of the communication component . The search component can search storage e.g. local remote etc. in order to locate route information such as a route a vehicle is predicted to take. In addition a global positioning system can supply user location information obtained by the search component . Moreover a data network e.g. the Internet can be contacted in order to determine contextual data e.g. available details to present to the user . The search component can also gain contextual information from a personal profile retained in storage .

The personal profile can be created through a summary component . The summary component constructs a profile of at least one creature construction includes both building the profile as well as updating the profile commonly thorough adaptive learning. A creature is generally a person in the vehicle operating the system of however a creature does not have to be a person for example a creature can be a family pet. According to one embodiment when a person enters a vehicle they log on to an on board computer e.g. a driver and passengers . If a profile has not been created then the summary component builds the profile if there is an existing profile then the summary component updates the profile. The profile can include information such as physical characteristics personal interests etc.

The personal profile can then be retained in storage that is accessed by the search component . Storage can arrange in a number of different configurations including as random access memory battery backed memory hard disk magnetic tape etc. Various features can be implemented upon storage such as compression and automatic back up e.g. use of a Redundant Array of Independent Drives configuration .

An interface component allows a person to enter specific information that can be used by the selection component of . For example a vehicle operator can desire to travel to a university in a rural area. The operator does not know the address however the university is in a small town and once in the small town the university is easy to find e.g. the operator will follow roadside signs . While a route states to go to the city center the operator can provide contextual information through the interface that she is actually looking to travel to the university. Example interface components can include a touch screen e.g. a screen that can also present information a microphone a keyboard etc. A user can input information thorough the interface component requesting alerts. For instance the user can input that a notification should be announced when an outlet mall is within a given radius of an intended location e.g. a point along a route .

Information from the search component storage the interface component an auxiliary location etc. can be processed by a filter component that limits information that can pass to the selection component of . The search component and the interface component can gather a relatively large amount of information so much information that the selection component of becomes overburdened and does not operate efficiently e.g. there would need to be a large amount of processing that would slow operation . The filter component can pass some information to the selection component of while stopping other information. Internal logic e.g. complex algorithms can be used in order to determine what information would be beneficial to the selection component of and what would be extraneous. Moreover the internal logic can be modified such by a technician or done adaptively to correct errors e.g. information is passing that should not information is being blocked that should not etc. improve performance etc.

An initialization component allows an individual to be provided additional destination content automatically. While a user can request additional content through the interface component of the user can also be provided content automatically. For instance as a user becomes geographically close to an intended destination the initialization component sends a signal that commercial detail information be disclosed to the user automatically.

An analysis component evaluates collection results. Commonly various calculations can be performed by the analysis component to provide an evaluation. For instance interests stored in a personal profile can be compared against available businesses near an intended destination. If a user has a history of struggling to find a parking space in a crowed location then the analysis component can perform an evaluation to determine parking lots near an intended destination. The analysis component can operate as a means for analyzing an intended travel destination of a user as well as a means for evaluating information where a means for commissioning information associated with the intended travel destination for presentment to the user utilizes the evaluated information to commission information.

Artificial intelligence component makes at least one inference or at least one determination in relation to detail choice. Various scenarios can occur that are processed by the artificial intelligence component . For example the artificial intelligence component can receive evaluations of the analysis component and determine details related to an intended destination that should be presented to a user based upon the evaluations. Moreover a fast food restaurant chain can pay for about ten presentations when a particular vehicle has an intended destination near a restaurant. In one instance a fast food restaurant is about two miles from the intended destination but is the closest eating establishment. The artificial intelligence component can infer that this is a quality instance to present a commercial detail and send a notification that the commercial detail should be disclosed.

Artificial intelligence component can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences and or creating making determinations related to applying a service e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Bayesian networks e.g. created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. Methods also include methods for the capture of logical relationships such as theorem provers or more heuristic rule based expert systems. The artificial intelligence component can function as a means for commissioning information associated with the intended travel destination for presentment to the user where commissioning information is based upon a result of the analyzed intended travel destination.

An association component integrates a detail with an intended destination. A determination can be made by the artificial intelligence component that a traffic report should be provided to an operator. However the operator is about two hours away from the intended destination. The association component can monitor operations and link the report with the intended destination and when the vehicle becomes close to the intended destination the traffic report can be disclosed.

A disclosure component presents the chosen detail to the user. A disclosure component allows an individual to appreciate a selected detail and act upon the detail. A non exhaustive list of disclosure components include a display screen touch screen speaker system virtual reality environment Braille production system printer etc. In addition the disclosure component can present information in multiple formats such as showing a video with audio capabilities.

According to one embodiment the gather component can receive information that a red light at a particular intersection an automobile running the system is arriving at lasts for about twelve seconds. The selection component chooses a commercial detail video that lasts for about twelve seconds. This allows a user to appreciate the commercial detail without being distracted during moving vehicle operations.

Furthermore the disclosure component can include adaptive logic for information presentation. An automobile operating the system can include a video monitor in a center console next to a steering wheel as well as audio speakers. A selected commercial detail can last for about thirty seconds while a stop light lasts for about fifteen seconds. In one embodiment while the automobile is at the stop light a video plays with sound when the automobile is in motion the video stops and sound is played thus causing less distraction to an operator.

In addition to a disclosure component the system can be equipped with a compensation component . The compensation component provides a reward in relation to presentment of the chosen detail to the user. Operation of the compensation component generally enables a fiscal transaction to take place however non fiscal implementations can be practiced e.g. a driver is awarded video game points that can be exchanged for prizes for listening to a commercial detail .

Different configurations allow transactions to take place for example a user can be paid money from an advertiser for being subjected to the commercial detail. In addition a user can pay money to a provider of the system to be presented with valuable traffic information e.g. an intended destination has heavy traffic so a message is transmitted to the user s personal digital assistant that she should leave earlier then expected .

For example a parent can be seated in a driver compartment and his spouse can be seated in a first passenger compartment both located toward a front of the vehicle . A commercial detail can be played on the first screen for a fast food restaurant located near an intended destination where the commercial detail is for new health foods offered at the restaurant. Children can be seated in a second passenger compartment and a third passenger compartment located at a rear of the vehicle. The children can be presented with a commercial detail for the restaurant highlighting a new toy available in a children s meal.

Other configurations can be practiced relating to multiple details disclosed to different parties. A first portion can be a video screen while the second portion is audio speakers. Moreover the first detail and the second detail can be presented simultaneously or in a staggered manner. In addition details can be tailored for different individuals in a vehicle e.g. passengers have their own portions . Operation of the disclosure component can be taken out of a vehicle context for instance different details can be presented on different mediums located in a common location e.g. a cinema sound system where different theaters are presented information based on estimated routes to a parking lot such as disclosing nearest bathrooms .

Various features can integrate with the generation component to enhance functionality. The generation component can predict an intended destination of a user and make route alterations automatically based upon a detail chosen by a selection component . For instance a user can have an intended destination of an opera house where a constructed route leads the user to the opera house. The detail can be a notification of a parking garage near the opera house that has a history of short exit wait time after large events. The generation component can automatically alter the route to lead the user to the parking garage conversely a user can request the change through engagement with a disclosure component of e.g. applying pressure upon a designated area of a touch screen .

A gather component collects route information a user location and contextual data and transfers them to a selector component . The route information can originate from the generation component as well as from other locations e.g. an operator has two possible routes and mixes the routes on her own . The selection component chooses a detail associated with an intended destination to present to a user where the detail choice is based upon route information the user location contextual data or a combination thereof.

At action gathering information capable of being appointed and at least one detail concerning an intended destination takes place. Details concerning the destination that can be gathered include user location route information and contextual data. As part of gathering information filtering can take place to determine if information is relevant and a subset of information is subjected to further processing.

There is analyzing the information capable of being appointed and at least one detail concerning an intended destination . For example different pieces of information based upon a number of factors such as profit for various parties relevancy contractual obligations etc. are evaluated. The information pieces can be assigned mathematical numbers based upon results of the analysis.

Appointing information for presentment to a user occurs where appointed information relates to an intended destination of the user. Appointing information takes place through analysis of the gathered details in one embodiment pieces of information with a highest score is what is ultimately appointed. If multiple information portions are to be appointed selection can take place through choosing information pieces with a highest score e.g. pieces with highest about three scores highest score in categories e.g. highest scoring commercial detail and highest scoring piece of traffic information are both presented etc.

Event is presenting the appointed information. Commonly presentment takes place through disclosure of a visual screen and or through use of an audio transmitter. However other embodiment can be practiced such as applying ink to paper through a printer. The presentation can take place though multiple disclosure components e.g. about fifteen different visual screens .

There is performing a financial transaction in relation to presenting the appointed information . A financial transaction allows funds to transfer between at least two parties. Depending on configuration parameters different parties can receive and or lose money based on the presentation. Example parameters include value of information duration of information benefits detriments etc. For instance a provider can charge X amount to provide one available parking location near the intended destination and Y amount to provide more then one available parking location.

If there is to be different information disclosed then there is configuring operations for multiple information disclosures at action . Configuration can include sending a power signal to a disclosure component and determining an appropriate disclosure medium. If a passenger is blind then a disclosure component that presents video and sound can have video capabilities disabled through event .

There is evaluating information and relevant data at event to gain a greater appreciation of a situation. Evaluation of information and relevant data allows for a determination on what information is to be presented is to be disclosed to different parties. Based upon the determinations there can be appointing information for presentment to a user occurs. Commonly appointment takes place in a similar manner as discussed in act of . There is presenting the appointed information . Operation of action can take place through practices contestant with details discussed relating to event .

A series of checks can take place to determine if a financial transaction is to occur. Checks can take place to take money from a user or provider e.g. an explicit provider such as a company that discloses commercial details for an express purpose of being disclosed to a user . In addition checks and can enable money to transfer from the user or the provider respectively. In addition a third party can have checks take place to give money or receive money . For example a car manufacturer that acts as a third party e.g. not a user or explicit provider can pay money to obtain information that can be disclosed to a driver or a driver can pay money to the manufacturer for information receipt.

If a yes takes place on a check to then there is performing appropriate calculations . Example calculations include determining an amount to transfer determining if a transfer will leave a party in default e.g. if about 100 are to be transferred from a user account but the account holds about 50 the user can be placed in default etc. Based on calculation results there is exchanging funds removing money from a debit account placing an order upon a credit card generating a check through software and a printer etc. Checks to can take place in parallel in sequence etc. and commonly operate independently. For instance if check answers in a yes or no check can still take place. If there are no designations on checks to then the methodology ends .

For purposes of simplicity of explanation methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter were shown and described as a series of blocks. However it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a program that runs on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor multiprocessor or multi core processor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed subject matter can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with the subject specification. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the specification for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the specification for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject specification but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject specification are possible. Accordingly the subject specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

