---

title: Methods of forming single-crystal metal-silicide nanowires and resulting nanowire structures
abstract: Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of forming single-crystal metal-silicide nanowires and resulting nanowire structures. In one embodiment of the present invention, a method of fabricating nanowires is disclosed. In the method, a number of nanowire-precursor members are formed. Each of the nanowire-precursor members includes a substantially single-crystal silicon region and a polycrystalline-metallic region. The substantially single-crystal silicon region and the polycrystalline-metallic region of each of the nanowire-precursor members is reacted to form corresponding substantially single-crystal metal-silicide nanowires. In another embodiment of the present invention, a nanowire structure is disclosed. The nanowire structure includes a substrate having an electrically insulating layer. A number of substantially single-crystal metal-silicide nanowires are positioned on the electrically insulating layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07829050&OS=07829050&RS=07829050
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07829050
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070213
---
This invention has been made with Government support under Contract No. HR 0011 05 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention are related generally to nanoscale electronics. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to methods of forming single crystal metal silicide nanowires and resulting nanowire structures.

Manufacturers and designers of integrated circuits continue to relentlessly decrease the size of integrated circuit features such as transistors and signal lines and correspondingly increase the density at which features can be fabricated within integrated circuits. However manufacturers and designers have begun to approach fundamental physical limits that prevent further decreasing feature sizes in integrated circuits fabricated by conventional photolithography techniques. Recent research efforts have turned to new non photolithography based techniques for fabricating nanoscale electronics that represent a significant decrease in feature sizes from currently available submicroscale electronics fabricated by currently available high resolution photolithographic techniques.

In one approach to designing and fabricating nanoscale electronics nanowires with molecular scale widths can be fabricated on a surface of a suitable substrate. Nanowire junctions representing the closest point of contacts between adjacent nanowires may be fabricated to have properties of configurable resistors switches diodes transistors and other familiar electronic components of integrated circuits. In other approaches nanowire crossbar arrays including multiple layers of nanowires can be formed. The grid like nanowire crossbars provide a two dimensional array of nanowire junctions that can be configured to form a variety of different types of electronic devices or electronic components. In addition to being used to form nanowire junctions nanowires have also found utility in sensors as electrical interconnects and in a number of other electrical and optical applications.

Nanowires can be fabricated using nanoimprint lithography. In nanoimprint lithography a layer of nanoimprint resist made from a thermoplastic material or a photocurable polymer is deposited on a substrate. A nanoimprinting mold imprints a nanowire pattern in the nanoimprint resist. When the nanoimprint resist is a curable resist the nanoimprint resist is cured with the nanoimprinting mold embedded within the nanoimprint resist. After curing the nanoimprinting mold is removed and an anisotropic etching process is used to remove residue nanoimprint resist from the base of individual trenches defined in the nanoimprint resist that serve as a template for individual nanowires. Then a metallic material is deposited within the trenches for example by evaporation sputtering or plating. The nanoimprint resist is then removed leaving polycrystalline metallic nanowires formed on the substrate.

As the lateral dimensions of polycrystalline metallic nanowires continue to decrease material defects in the polycrystalline metallic nanowires can significantly influence the electrical properties of the polycrystalline metallic nanowires. Grain boundaries and other defects within polycrystalline metallic nanowires can significantly increase the resistivity of the polycrystalline metallic nanowires. High resistivity polycrystalline metallic nanowires can deleteriously decrease the speed at which nanoscale electronic devices operate. Therefore researchers and developers of nanoscale electronic devices continue to seek techniques for fabricating high quality low resistivity nanowires so that nanowires with reduced lateral dimensions can be utilized in nanoscale electronics without compromising important performance characteristics.

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of forming single crystal metal silicide nanowires and resulting nanowire structures. In one embodiment of the present invention a method of fabricating nanowires is disclosed. In the method a number of nanowire precursor members are formed. Each of the nanowire precursor members includes a substantially single crystal silicon region and a polycrystalline metallic region. The substantially single crystal silicon region and the polycrystalline metallic region of each of the nanowire precursor members is reacted to form corresponding substantially single crystal metal silicide nanowires.

In another embodiment of the present invention a nanowire structure is disclosed. The nanowire structure includes a substrate having an electrically insulating layer. A number of substantially single crystal metal silicide nanowires are positioned on the electrically insulating layer.

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of forming single crystal metal silicide nanowires and resulting nanowire structures. illustrate various stages in a method of forming a nanowire structure according to one embodiment of the present invention in which each of the nanowires is a single crystal metal silicide nanowire. As shown in a silicon on insulator SOI substrate is provided. The SOI substrate includes an electrically insulating layer sandwiched between a single crystal silicon layers and . The electrically insulating layer may be a layer of silicon dioxide aluminum oxide or another suitable electrically insulating material. Next as shown in a resist is applied to an upper surface of the single crystal silicon layer and patterned as illustrated to form elongated mask elements each of which includes an upper surface . The elongated mask elements may be patterned using nanoimprint lithography electron beam lithography or another suitable patterning technique. For example a nanoimprint resist may be applied to the upper surface of the single crystal silicon layer followed by imprinting the nanoimprint resist with a nanoimprinting mold and anisotropically etching the nanoimprint resist to remove any remaining nanoimprint resist in regions compressed by the nanoimprinting mold.

As shown in polycrystalline metallic material is deposited at least on the exposed upper surface of the single crystal silicon layer between adjacent mask elements by for example sputtering evaporation chemical vapor deposition CVD atomic layer deposition ALD electroplating electroless plating or another suitable deposition technique. As illustrated in the polycrystalline metallic material may also be deposited on the upper surface of each of the mask elements . When a plating process is employed for depositing the polycrystalline metallic material the polycrystalline metallic material may preferentially nucleate on the exposed upper surface of the single crystal silicon layer and the upper surface may not be plated with any of the polycrystalline metallic material . The polycrystalline metallic material may comprise any metallic material capable of reacting with silicon to form metal silicide. For example the polycrystalline metallic material may comprise one or more transition metals e.g. Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn Y Zr Nb Mo Pd Ag Ta W Pt Au Al one or more rare earth metals e.g. Er Dy Gd Th Ho Tb Sm or another suitable metal or alloy capable of forming a metal silicide. Following deposition of the polycrystalline metallic material as shown in the elongated mask elements are removed using for example a suitable solvent that selectively removes the elongated mask elements leaving an etch mask including a number of etch mask elements formed of the polycrystalline metallic material .

As shown in the etch mask in conjunction with a suitable etching process e.g. reactive ion etching RIE may be used to selectively etch portions of the single crystal silicon layer that are not covered by the etch mask elements . An interfacial surface of the electrically insulating layer of the SOI substrate may function as an etch stop to prevent further etching of the SOI substrate . A number of elongated nanowire precursor members are formed upon selectively removing portions of the single crystal silicon layer . Each of the nanowire precursor members has a bi layer structure including a single crystal silicon region or layer formed from a portion of the single crystal silicon layer and a polycrystalline metallic region or layer formed of one of the etch mask elements .

As shown in the in process substrate structure shown in is subjected to an annealing process at a suitably selected temperature. The annealing temperature causes a diffusive reaction to occur between the single crystal silicon region and the polycrystalline metallic region i.e. etch mask elements of each of the nanowire precursor members to form a number of single crystal metal silicide nanowires having nanoscale lateral dimensions of for example about 2 nm to about 500 nm. Despite the presence of grain boundaries in the polycrystalline metallic regions the nanowires so formed exhibit a substantially single crystal structure. However small amounts of crystal defects may be present. Because each of the single crystal metal silicide nanowires are formed on the electrically insulating layer each of single crystal metal silicide nanowires are electrically isolated from each other. shows a schematic isometric view that best illustrates the elongated geometry of the single crystal metal silicide nanowires formed after annealing.

The precise composition of the single crystal metal silicide nanowires depends upon the composition and amount of the polycrystalline metallic material i.e. the etch mask elements and the annealing temperature. For example when the etch mask elements comprise nickel a nickel silicide having a chemical formula NiSi may be formed after annealing at a temperature between about 300 C. to about 700 C. for a suitable amount of time. It should be noted that a single crystal metal silicide nanowire made from for example NiSi exhibits a resistivity that is substantially less than a similarly dimensioned polycrystalline nickel nanowire due to the general absence of any grain boundaries in the single crystal metal silicide nanowire made from NiSi.

As shown in after forming the single crystal silicon nanowires a layer of polycrystalline metallic material is formed over the single crystal silicon nanowires and between adjacent single crystal silicon nanowires . The layer of polycrystalline metallic material may cover regions of the interfacial surface that are not covered by the single crystal silicon nanowires . The layer of polycrystalline metallic material may be formed from the same materials and deposited in the same manner as polycrystalline metallic material shown in . Although the layer of polycrystalline metallic material is illustrated as a conformal layer in another embodiment of the present invention a non conformal layer may also be formed depending upon the particular deposition process that is utilized. Furthermore in yet another embodiment of the present invention polycrystalline metallic material may be deposited in a manner so that the polycrystalline metallic material preferential nucleates on the single crystal silicon nanowires and does not generally deposit on the exposed interfacial surface of the electrically insulating layer between adjacent single crystal silicon nanowires . The combination of the elongated single crystal silicon nanowires and regions of the layer of polycrystalline metallic material in contact with and proximate to the elongated single crystal silicon nanowires function as nanowire precursor members similar to the nanowire precursor members shown in .

Next as shown in after deposition of the layer of polycrystalline metallic material a number of single crystal metal silicide nanowires are formed by subjecting the in process structure shown in to an annealing process as previously described with respect to . As previously described the single crystal metal silicide nanowires are formed as a result of a diffusive reaction between the single crystal silicon nanowires and regions of the layer of polycrystalline metallic material in contact and surrounding each of the single crystal silicon nanowires . After forming the single crystal metal silicide nanowires un reacted portions of the polycrystalline metallic material are removed by utilizing a selective material removal process such as ion milling or etching that preferentially removes the un reacted portions over the electrically insulating layer and the single crystal metal silicide nanowires . After removing the un reacted portions the single crystal metal silicide nanowires remain on the electrically insulating layer electrically isolated from each other.

As shown in the mask elements in conjunction with a suitable anisotropic material removal process e.g. RIE or ion milling are used to selectively remove portions of the layer of polycrystalline metallic material and the single crystal silicon layer that are not covered by the mask elements . As with the previously described embodiments the interfacial surface of the electrically insulating layer of the SOI substrate may function as an etch stop to prevent further etching of the SOI substrate . A number of elongated nanowire precursor members are formed upon selectively removing portions of the layer of polycrystalline metallic material and the single crystal silicon layer . Each of the nanowire precursor members includes a bi layer structure including a single crystal silicon region or layer formed from a portion of the single crystal silicon layer and a polycrystalline metallic region or layer formed of a portion of the layer of polycrystalline metallic material . Next as shown in after forming the nanowire precursor members a number of single crystal metal silicide nanowires are formed by subjecting the in process structure shown in to an annealing process as previously described with respect to . As previously described the single crystal metal silicide nanowires are formed as a result of a diffusive reaction between the single crystal silicon region and the polycrystalline metallic region of each of the nanowire precursor members . Furthermore the single crystal metal silicide nanowires remain on the electrically insulating layer electrically isolated from each other.

Any of the previously described embodiments of methods for forming single crystal metal silicide nanowires may be used to form nanowire crossbar arrays or other components that utilize single crystal metal silicide nanowires. For example illustrate various stages in a method of forming a nanowire crossbar array that utilizes single crystal metal silicide nanowires according to yet another embodiment of the present invention. Such nanowire crossbar arrays are suitable for use as memory or logic devices. As merely an illustrative embodiment of the present invention illustrate various stages in a method of forming a second layer of single crystal metal silicide nanowires over the single crystal metal silicide nanowires shown in .

As shown in a dielectric material e.g. silicon oxide silicon nitride or an insulting polymer may be deposited between each of the single crystal metal silicide nanowires using CVD ALD or another suitable deposition process. Then a layer of nanowire junction material may deposited on the dielectric material and the single crystal metal silicide nanowires . As will be discussed in more detail below portions of the nanowire junction material ultimately form nanowire junctions located at intersections between overlapping single crystal metal silicide nanowires. The nanowire junction material may be in certain embodiments of the present invention a variably resistive material that may reversibly transition between a relatively high conductance state and a relatively low conductance state upon application of two different state transition voltages. For example the variable resistive material may be a linear or nonlinear hysteretic resistor material. Such a variable resistive material allows nanowire junctions to be configured electronically to either electrically interconnect two nanowires that cross at a nanowire junction or to electrically isolate the two nanowires from one another. In additional embodiments of the present invention other types of nanowire junction materials may be deposited to produce other types of nanowire junction components. In certain embodiments of the present invention multiple layers may be deposited in order to produce multi layer nanowire junctions. A support material such as a layer of titanium or another suitable material may be deposited on the nanowire junction material .

As shown in a thinned single crystal silicon substrate may be bonded to the support material using for example a thermal bonding process or Van der Waal forces between the thinned single crystal silicon substrate and the support material . Then as shown in a second layer of single crystal metal silicide nanowires may be formed from the thinned single crystal silicon substrate using the same or similar process acts shown and described with respect to . It is noted that the schematic cross sectional view shown in is rotated ninety degrees from the schematic cross sectional view shown in . In another embodiment of the present invention a second layer of single crystal metal silicide nanowires may be formed in a separate process according to the method shown and described with respect to . The second layer of single crystal metal silicide nanowires may be transferred to a flexible substrate and subsequently bonded to the support material .

With continued reference to after forming the single crystal metal silicide nanowires portions of the support material and the nanowire junction material may be removed by for example RIE so that the nanowire junction material and the support material remain only along the underside of each of the single crystal metal silicide nanowires . A nanowire junction is located at each region where a nanowire in the second layer overlaps a nanowire in the first layer. As best illustrated in the schematic isometric view shown in dielectric material not shown for clarity each of the single crystal metal silicide nanowires overlies each of the single crystal metal silicide nanowires . Utilizing currently available configuration processes each of the nanowire junctions may be configured as a resistor a variable resistance resistor a diode a transistor or other passive or active component. For example the labeled single crystal metal silicide nanowire shown in may be electrically coupled to each of the underlying single crystal metal silicide nanowires or electrically isolated from each of the underlying single crystal metal silicide nanowires via individual nanowire junctions . A protective coating not shown may also be applied over and between adjacent single crystal metal silicide nanowires to help protect the single crystal metal silicide nanowires and the nanowire junction from physical and chemical damage.

It should be emphasized that nanowire crossbar arrays may also be fabricated utilizing the embodiments of methods discussed above with respect to and . For example a second layer of single crystal metal silicide nanowires may be formed over the first layer of single crystal metal silicide nanowires or nanowires by similarly depositing a dielectric material between adjacent nanowires or depositing a nanowire junction material over the nanowires or depositing a support material on the nanowire junction material bonding a thinned single crystal silicon substrate to the support material repeating the process acts shown and described with respect to or and selectively removing portions of the nanowire junction material and support material.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments it is not intended that the present invention be limited to these embodiments. Modifications within the spirit of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example in another embodiment of the present invention the disclosed methods for fabricating single crystal metal silicide nanowires and the resulting nanowire structures may be utilized in many diverse applications besides nanowire crossbar arrays such as electrical interconnects in integrated circuits. Moreover the single crystal metal silicide nanowires may be utilized in almost any other electrical or optical application in which a high aspect ratio conductive structure is used.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive of or to limit the present invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the present invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the present invention be defined by the claims and their equivalents 

