---

title: Apparatus and method for selectively double buffering portions of displayable content
abstract: A method of generating displayable content is provided. The method includes obtaining a display package having a plurality of display elements defining a plurality of display frames. The method further includes rendering at least one selected group of the plurality of display elements. Each selected group is based on indicator information in the display package and comprises less than all of the plurality of display elements. Further included is saving a copy of each rendered selected group in a second display buffer. The method further includes rendering at least one display frame within the plurality of display frames such that at least a portion of the at least one rendered display frame comprises the saved copy of at least one rendered selected group. Further included is saving the at least one rendered display frame in a first display buffer that is different from the second display buffer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08004535&OS=08004535&RS=08004535
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08004535
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070530
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 803 633 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SELECTIVELY DOUBLE BUFFERING PORTIONS OF DISPLAYABLE CONTENT filed Jun. 1 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The described aspects relate to buffering of content to be presented on a display and more particularly to an apparatus method and computer program product for selectively double buffering portions of the displayable content.

Many computer devices such as a wireless communication device include a display screen operable to present a display frame or visible image on the screen. Since many computer devices redraw the visible display frame it can be difficult to make changes to the display frame without the display screen showing the results before the completion of the graphics operation. This results in undesirable artifacts such as flickering tearing and shearing. Overcoming such undesirable artifacts can be achieved by using display buffers also known as double or secondary buffers. The display screen has a display buffer into which the display frame is rendered prior to being copied to the display memory which directly affects what is presented on the screen. The secondary or double buffer may be utilized for the construction of new display frames. Any rendering of displayable content into the secondary buffer referred to as double buffering can not affect the display screen. When the construction of a new display frame in the secondary buffer is complete then the newly constructed display frame can be copied or blitted into the display memory using an efficient buffer copy routine. Thus through the use of a buffer the presence of artifacts in the visible display frame presented on the display screen can be reduced or eliminated.

In some systems the entire display screen is double buffered i.e. all the components are located in one buffer. In other systems element by element double buffering occurs in which each individual displayable element is first rendered to its own private buffer before that buffer is copied to the screen s double buffer.

In computer devices having limited resources however the advantage of improved quality of the visible display frame provided by double buffering can be weighed against the cost in terms of memory requirement and processor usage.

Apparatus methods and computer program product are described for selectively double buffering at least one selected group of a plurality of display elements in a display package of a plurality of display frames. The apparatus and methods further include generating less than the entirety of at least one display frame using the double buffered rendered selected group.

In one aspect a method of generating displayable content is provided. The method comprises obtaining a display package having a plurality of display elements defining a plurality of display frames. The method further includes rendering at least one selected group of the plurality of display elements. Each selected group is based on indicator information in the display package and each selected group comprises less than all of the plurality of display elements. The method further includes saving a copy of each rendered selected group in a second display buffer. Further the method includes rendering at least one display frame within the plurality of display frames such that at least a portion of the at least one rendered display frame comprises the saved copy of at least one rendered selected group. Additionally the method includes saving the at least one rendered display frame in a first display buffer. The first display buffer is different from the second display buffer.

In another aspect at least one processor configured to generate displayable content comprising having one or more modules is provided. The processor includes a module operable to obtain a display package a module operable to render at least one selected group of the plurality of display elements and a module operable to save a copy of each rendered selected group in a second display buffer. The display package has a plurality of display elements defining a plurality of display frames. Each selected group is based on indicator information in the display package and each selected group comprises less than all of the plurality of display elements. The processor further includes a module operable to render at least one display frame within the plurality of display frames such that at least a portion of the at least one rendered display frame comprises the saved copy of at least one rendered selected group. The processor further includes a module operable to save the at least one rendered display frame in a first display buffer. The first display buffer is different from the second display buffer.

In a further aspect a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having instructions is provided. The computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to obtain a display package having a plurality of display elements defining a plurality of display frames. The computer readable medium further includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to render at least one selected group of the plurality of display elements. Each selected group is based on indicator information in the display package and each selected group comprises less than all of the plurality of display elements. Further included in the computer readable medium is at least one instruction for causing the computer to save a copy of each rendered selected group in a second display buffer. Additionally the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to render at least one display frame within the plurality of display frames such that at least a portion of the at least one rendered display frame comprises the saved copy of at least one rendered selected group. The computer readable medium further includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to save the at least one rendered display frame in a first display buffer. The first display buffer is different from the second display buffer.

In another aspect an apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes means for obtaining a display package having a plurality of display elements defining a plurality of display frames and means for rendering at least one selected group of the plurality of display elements. Each selected group is based on indicator information in the display package and each selected group comprises less than all of the plurality of display elements. The apparatus further includes means for saving a copy of each rendered selected group in a second display buffer and means for rendering at least one display frame within the plurality of display frames such that at least a portion of the at least one rendered display frame comprises the saved copy of at least one rendered selected group. Further included in the apparatus is means for saving the at least one rendered display frame in a first display buffer. The first display buffer is different from the second display buffer.

In an additional aspect a computer device for generating displayable content comprises a memory comprising a first display buffer a second display buffer different from the first display buffer and a display package. The display package comprises a plurality of display elements defining a plurality of display frames. The computer device also comprises a processor in communication with the memory and a rendering module having rendering logic. The rendering module is executable by the processor to render at least one selected group of the plurality of display elements. Each selected group is based on indicator information in the display package and each selected group comprises less than all of the plurality of display elements. Further the rendering module is executable by the processor to save a copy of each rendered selected group in the second display buffer. Additionally the rendering module is further executable by the processor to render at least one display frame within the plurality of display frames such that at least a portion of the at least one rendered display frame comprises the saved copy of at least one rendered selected group. Additionally the rendering module is further executable by the processor to save the at least one rendered display frame in the first display buffer.

The described apparatus methods and computer program product relate to the generation of graphics on a display of a device. Each graphic or display frame may comprise a plurality of displayable elements. Depending on the nature of any one or a group of the displayable elements trade offs can be made between newly rendering each element for each display frame or storing one or more previously rendered elements and combining a copy of the previously rendered elements with the remaining elements to form the display frame. In the subject application the operation of storing and then copying the previously rendered one or group of element s is referred to as double buffering. The described aspects provide a mechanism and a framework for selectively identifying one or more individual display elements and or one or more groups of individual display elements for double buffering. The described aspects further provide a mechanism and framework for generating storing and presenting rendered display frames based on a combination of the one or more double buffered elements and remaining non double buffered elements.

As used herein the word exemplary means serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects.

Referring to an exemplary system operable to generate displayable content is depicted according to one implementation. The system comprises at least one content provider supplying a display package of displayable content to a computer device via a communication interface . Display package may comprise any number n of display elements and where n is a positive integer. The display elements and may define a plurality of display frames that form a graphic user interface which may be changeable over time. Each of display elements and may define at least an element to present within a display frame when to present a display element in a display frame when to present each display frame e.g. a frame rate where to present a display element in a display frame and how to present a display element in a display frame. In one aspect display package may comprise a frame rate defined in some other manner rather than by being defined by one or more respective display elements.

Additionally display package may comprise at least one double buffer indicator operable to cause selective double buffering of content including one or any combination of display elements and . In one implementation double buffer indicator may include but is not limited to information contained within or associated with one or more display elements and . For example in one aspect double buffer indicator may comprise one or any combination of a tag a command a marker a characteristic and or composition associated with all or some portion of one or more display elements a data structure and or any other mechanism recognizable within the framework of display package operable to selectively enable double buffering. According to one implementation an author of display package may input double buffer indicator . In another aspect double buffer indicator may be derived from all or some portion of display package and or all or some portion of one or more display elements and . As such in one aspect double buffer indicator may not be a discrete component of display package . Rather the double buffer indicator may be a function of the combination of display elements and in display package .

Further computer device comprises a display mechanism in communication with a rendering module operable to receive display package . Responsive to receipt of display package rendering module may be operable to generate a plurality of x rendered display frames and on display mechanism where x is a positive integer. The plurality of rendered display frames and can be defined by display package and one or any combination of display elements and . Thus rendering module may be operable to generate and control the presentation on display mechanism of a graphic user interface which is changeable over time.

Additionally computer device can further comprise a double buffer module operable to identify any number from 1 to k of selected element group s and where k is a positive integer. The selected element groups and may be from the plurality of display elements and for double buffering based on the double buffer indicator . It should be noted that each of selected element group s and may include a single one or any combination of the plurality of display elements and . In one aspect however any of selected element groups and may comprise less than all of the respective ones of the plurality of display elements and associated with a respective one of the plurality of rendered display frames and . In other words in such an aspect for a given display frame and or any one selected element group can contain less than the total number of display elements used to paint the respective display frame.

As such based on the operation of double buffer module with respect to display package rendering module may be operable to generate a rendered selected element group from each selected element group. For instance rendered selected element groups and have respectively been generated from selected element groups and . Further in one aspect rendering module may be operable to store each respective rendered selected element group and in a separate defined portion of device memory thus defining a separate double buffer e.g. second display buffers and .

As a result rendering module may further be operable to generate a portion of at least one rendered display frame using one or any combination of rendered selected element groups and . In such an implementation the portion of the at least one rendered display frame comprises less than the entirety of the display frame. For example in one aspect rendered display frame may be formed from any remaining display element s and or from the plurality of display elements and in combination with a copy of the one or more rendered selected element group s and or . In the subject example any remaining display element s and or may range from 0 to m display elements where m is a positive integer. Additionally as used herein any remaining display elements may include any display element used within a given display frame which may not have been included in a selected element group. In another aspect rendered display frame may be formed entirely from any of the plurality of rendered selected element groups and .

Further in one implementation rendering module may be operable to store rendered display frame in another defined portion of device memory such as a first display buffer . First display buffer allows rendering module to construct or paint a new display frame without substantially affecting the presentation of the current display frame. Additionally in one aspect rending module may be operable to copy rendered display frame into a further defined portion of memory such as display memory presented on display mechanism . As such the content of display memory can directly affect the content of the presented display frame.

Rendering module may further be operable to generate and control the presentation of the plurality of rendered display frames and corresponding to display package e.g. generate a user interface on computer device etc. on display mechanism . In particular a portion of at least one rendered display frame may be formed from a combination of one or more previously rendered or double buffered element s or group s of elements as identified by double buffer module . Further the entire rendered display frame may be formed from either 1 one or more previously rendered element s groups s and one or more newly rendered element s group s or 2 a plurality of previously rendered elements groups. Therefore as the one or more previously rendered element s group s do not have to be re rendered for presentation in the given display frame some aspects of system operate to provide selective double buffering of portions of the displayable content resulting in increased rendering speed and efficiency.

Referring to in an example of one scenario double buffer indicator may be associated with selected element group when the corresponding rendered selected element group has not been changed from one rendered display frame at time to another rendered display frame at time x where x is any time after time e.g. from frame to frame . In this scenario only the position of rendered selected element group may change relative to remaining element thereby changing rendered display frame with respect to rendered display frame .

In one aspect system can optimize the generation of a rendered display frame. Optimization can be achieved by allowing for the analysis of display package and the plurality of display frames and determining whether one or more display elements have static compositions. Further in one aspect system may allow for weighing the costs and benefits of double buffering the identified one or more groups of static display elements. The costs and benefits to be considered can include the amount of memory used for double buffering the content as well as the processing time saved by copying rendered content rather than re rendering the content while considering the frame rate of the display frames. In one implementation such analysis may occur manually upon creating testing and or using display package . In another aspect such analysis may occur automatically based on one or any combination of rules functions heuristics neural networks and or any other predetermined logic such as rendering logic and double buffer logic as discussed below within rendering module and or double buffer module .

Referring back to as noted earlier display package may comprise a plurality of display elements and . Each display element and may comprise all or a portion of a displayed component wherein at least one displayed component defines each display frame. In particular in one aspect where display package comprises a markup language such as extensible markup language XML each display element and may comprise any single markup language element or any group of markup language elements. Additionally in one implementation display elements and may be provided within display package in a tree based structure a nesting structure and or any other structure that allows for a hierarchy of data.

In one aspect for example display package may be operable to define a user interface UI for computer device in one or any combination of a first data format such as a non compiled data file a second data format such as a compiled data file or object file and a programming language. For example display package may include but is not limited to a markup language document such as a TrigML document. A TrigML document is an XML derived UT mark up language document tailored to the requirements of devices with small screen areas limited memory and limited processing power e.g. configured for computer device having a predetermined display characteristic a predetermined amount of memory and a predetermined capability of processor an XML document a hypertext markup language HTML document and a scripting programming language file e.g. a JavaScript file etc. .

Further display package provides the rendering framework into which double buffer indicator may be inserted or from which may be derived. For example in one aspect such as in a TrigML document double buffer indicator may comprise a filter like element that contains a child element and operates to double buffer the rendering or painting of the child element e.g. to improve animation performance .

Referring to in one non limiting example of a display package defined by a TrigML document double buffer indicator may take the form of a tag. The tag alludes to the fact that each selected display element group denoted by the double buffer indicator respectively are painted into a separate canvas or double buffer memory area. Additionally in one implementation double buffer indicator may further comprise a control attribute having a value that may be changed to selectively enable and disable double buffering. For example in one non limiting aspect control attribute may have a value of true to enable double buffering and a value of false to disable double buffering. In one aspect the tag is left in place in case the author wants to switch on buffering later or vice versa .

In the illustrated example TrigML document defines the displayable elements and or components in layers thus providing a hierarchy for governing relative element and or group characteristics. For instance a first layer may be defined such that the first layer always overlies a second layer and a second layer may be defined such that the second layer always overlies a third layer etc. In present example a pair of document type tags identifies the beginning and end of the respective document. In particular the tag may be a non visual container that defines the fragment of XML as being a TrigML fragment and makes the whole fragment a single XML document. As illustrated the beginning of tagged content is identified by the tag identifier and the end of the tagged content is denoted by the same tag identifier preceded by a backslash . A pair of first layer tags and the respective contents defines the backdrop for the present example a main menu as denoted by attribute of the initial one of the pair of first group tags . In the illustrated example the content of the main menu may comprise text graphics etc. as can be denoted by one or more tags such as tag . In the illustrated example tag does not include a tag identifier and or a tag attribute but may include any type of tag having none or any combination of one or more attributes. Further the content may be organized into one or more groups such as the group indicated by first group tags .

Further depicted is a pair of second layer tags defining a popup component as indicated by layer attribute . In the illustrated example the popup comprises the text message Warning Battery Low in a white color as respectively defined by text tag and attribute . Additionally the popup has an animation attached thereto as defined by an animation tag having animation attributes . According to animation attributes the animation is triggered when the piece of content first enters the page i.e. when the piece of content is loaded into rendering module . Further according to animation attributes the animation animates the x coordinate of the parent group of the animation as defined by second group tags from 100 millimeters mm to 30 mm in 300 milliseconds ms . Parent group further includes a configurable group attribute which in the subject example defines the group of display element s as having a width of 100 mm a height of 50 mm and a red background color bgcolor . Additionally the double buffer or element having control attribute equal to true is operable in this case to instruct rendering module to double buffer the appearance of group for example so the frames of the animation can be rendered faster. In the illustrated example double buffering may be desired for instance because group is only moving e.g. changing the group x axis coordinate. That is the group contents are not changing from frame to frame.

In the example of it should be noted that a plurality of display elements may be included in any group to which double buffer indicator applies. Similarly although double buffer indicator in this example includes only a single group it should be noted that a single element and or a plurality of elements and or a plurality of groups may be included within one double buffer indicator . Additionally for example one or more double buffer indicators may be nested within another double buffer indicator . Furthermore although display package in the present example includes only one double buffer indicator a plurality of double buffer indicators may be included in any one display package.

Referring back to content provider may comprise one or any combination of a content provider a content retailer a billing and customer service provider a network service provider a media distributor a content server and any entity and or device in or related to the chain of distribution of content and or services to computer device . For example in some aspects content provider may include the uiOne solution available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. uiOne solution operates to provide an open and flexible combination of technologies and services for operators device manufacturers and publishers developers to create and deploy customized and updateable mobile UIs.

Further for example content provider may include the deliveryOne content management and delivery system that operates to manage the end to end transfer of wireless content to an array of wireless devices. Additionally for instance content provider may include the uiOne TrigPublisher and uiOne Depot solutions which operate to provide services to control and refresh the user experiences through selective updates to parts of the UI. In one example the subject solutions may further include tools for the rapid creation of a wide range of mobile user interfaces also referred to as Trigs. For example such tools may be used to accelerate the process by basing new designs on existing templates which can be quickly modified simulated and loaded directly into the phone for testing and evaluation. The present combination of features in the subject solutions can result in high quality interfaces which create a compelling user experience. The deliveryOne content management and delivery system and the uiOne TrigPublisher and uiOne Depot solutions are available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif.

Additionally communication interface may comprise one or any combination of a wired connection a wireless connection and direct loading onto the device at the time of manufacture. The wired and or wireless connection may further include a network such as one or any combination of a data network and a communications network. In some aspects for example the network may comprise all or some portion of a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the MediaFLO System available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In one aspect the network may include one or a combination of other networks such as a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.xx network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Further examples of telephone networks that may be included in some aspects of the network include one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier iX radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a communications network and a data network.

Referring to in one aspect computer device may include but is not limited to any device having a computer platform comprising a memory and a processor . It should be noted that computer device may include any type of wired and or wireless device such as a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a laptop computer a personal gaming device a two way pager a portable music device and any other type of computer.

Computer platform may be operable to transmit data across a network such as data and or communications network and or to receive and or execute routines and or applications. Computer platform may further be operable to optionally display data transmitted from any network device or other computer device connected to the network or connected to computer device . For example computer platform may be embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof.

Computer platform may include memory which can comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms. Additionally as discussed previously memory may include one or any combination of display memory first display buffer and one or more second display buffers and where the number of separate second display buffers may correspond to the number of separate selected element groups and identified by double buffering module .

Further computer platform may include processor which may be one or more of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a chipset a processor a logic circuit and any other data processing device. In one aspect processor or other processor such as an ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as a user interface module rendering module and double buffer module stored in memory of computer device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless.RTM. BREW.RTM. software developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wired and or wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof which enable the functionality of computer device and the operability of the computer device on a data and or communications network. For example processing subsystems may allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with content provider and or other networked devices. In one aspect in which the computer device is defined as an exemplary cellular telephone the processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems for communications such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services vocoder messaging graphics USB multimedia etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform that enable the functionality described herein.

Further computer platform may include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof which enables communications among the various components of computer device as well as between computer device and communication interface . For example in a cellular telephone aspect communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof including transmit and receive chain components for establishing a wireless communication connection.

Further in one aspect for example communication module may be operable to receive and forward display package or provide access to the display package to at least one of user interface module rendering module and double buffer module . Subsequently for example communications module may be operable to forward selected element group s and remaining element s and rendered selected element group s and rendered display frame s and among the device components based on instructions from rendering module .

Additionally computer device may have one or more input mechanisms for generating inputs into the device and may further have one or more output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a navigation mechanism a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input mechanism provides for user input to activate or interact with an application or module on the wireless device. Further for example output mechanism may include display operable to present a UI an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

Additionally computer platform may further include user interface module operable to manage the execution and or operation of rendering module double buffer module and display mechanism . User interface module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware executable instructions and data. For example in one aspect user interface module comprises user interface logic which is executable by processor to perform the user interface management functions. Further for example user interface module may include the uiOne.TM. client and porting layer associated with the uiOne.TM. solution discussed previously. In a cell phone aspect for example the uiOne.TM. client is a high performance compact application residing on the handset which allows Trigs or user interfaces to be installed and updated over the air. For example the uiOne.TM. client enables interaction between the software components of the handsets e.g. phone messaging contacts calendar etc. and the user interface or display mechanism . Further operators can use the uiOne.TM. client to differentiate the service offering of the operators and drive revenues by branding the user interface dynamically promoting services on the screen and providing seamless connection making it easier for users to buy services.

In yet another aspect in a Trig based system user interface module may include one or any combination of a virtual file system a resource manager operable to provide among other things an abstraction of the persistent storage on the device a network communication agent an update manager operable to handle the reception and application of Trigs and Triglets an actor manager operable to look after the set of actors present in the software a plurality of actors a support manager operable to provide an interface for other components to report the occurrence of an event or error and a trig manager operable to present an interface to the resource manager and the renderer as well as other trig management functions.

Additionally computer platform may further include rendering module operable to generate rendered display frames corresponding to display package . Rendering module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware executable instructions and data. For example in one aspect rendering module comprises rendering logic which is executable by processor to perform the rendering functions described herein. In another aspect rendering module may comprise one or any combination of additional components such as a parser and a rendering engine. In one implementation the parser is operable to read the language of display package while the rendering engine operable is operable to translate the parsed language into graphics API calls to perform drawing or rendering actions. Additionally in one aspect rendering module may be operable to define a second display buffer for each selected element group as identified by double buffer module . Further rendering module may be operable to paint each identified selected element group into a separate respective second display buffer.

Additionally computer platform includes double buffer module operable to identify based on one or more double buffer indicators within display package a respective one or more selected elements groups for double buffering. Double buffer module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware executable instructions and data. For example in one aspect double buffer module comprises double buffer logic executable by processor . The double buffer logic is operable to perform the operation of identification of selected element group s and or as described herein. In this respect double buffer logic may include one or any combination of rules functions heuristics neural networks and or any other predetermined logic operable to detect one or more double buffer indicators embedded within display package and or to analyze display package and one or any combination of display elements and in order to determine and or derive one or more double buffer indicators . For example rather than detecting a predetermined or hard coded indicator double buffer logic may be operable to analyze a sequence of display frames identify one or more individual or groups of static display elements across at least two display frames to classify as a selected element group optionally automatically generate double buffer indicators and or otherwise automatically identify one or more selected element groups and and initiate the generation and storage of corresponding rendered selected element groups and for use in the presentation of the plurality of display frames defined by display package . Additionally in one aspect double buffer module may be operable to create and or define a second display buffer for saving each selected element group where each rendered selected element group may be saved in a separate second display buffer or where all of the rendered selected element groups are stored to a single buffer display.

Referring to in one aspect a method of displaying content comprises obtaining a display package having a plurality of display elements defining a plurality of display frames Event . For example in one aspect a computer device receives a display package from a content provider via a communication interface. Display package may comprise a plurality of display elements that define a plurality of display frames and further may include at least one double buffer indicator.

Additionally the method may include rendering at least one selected group of the plurality of display elements Event . Further rendering at least one selected group of the plurality of display elements may include rendering one selected element a plurality of selected elements and or a plurality of selected groups of elements. In one example each selected group is based on double buffer indicator information in the display package. For example in one aspect responsive to the display package a rendering module is operable to generate one or more rendered selected element groups from a respective one or more selected element groups identified by a double buffer module. For instance in one implementation the double buffer module may be operable to analyze the display package and locate and or derive one or more double buffer indicators signaling content that is to be double buffered e.g. to improve animation performance . For example such double buffering may occur when the composition of the one or more display elements does not change across two or more display frames. It should be noted however that the two or more display frames may not need to be consecutive display frames. Additionally in one aspect each selected element group may comprise less than the entirety of a corresponding rendered display frame. Further in one aspect each selected group may comprise less than all of the plurality of display elements associated with the corresponding display frame.

Further the method may include saving a copy of each rendered selected group in a second display buffer Event . For example in one aspect the rendering module may be operable to store the one or more rendered selected element groups in a respective one or more second display buffers. In one implementation for example the rendering module and or double the buffer module may be operable to define or create the respective one or more second display buffers within a memory for example based on the double buffer indicator information. Although separate second display buffers may be created it should be noted that all rendered selected element groups may be saved into a common second display buffer.

Additionally the method may include rendering at least one display frame within the plurality of display frames such that at least a portion of the at least one rendered display frame comprises the saved copy of the rendered selected group Event . For example in one aspect the rendering module may be operable to generate rendered display frame by rendering one or more remaining elements in combination with a copy of one or more rendered selected element groups. In another aspect for example the rendered display frame may be generated using only copies of two or more rendered selected element groups. As such in one implementation each rendered selected element groups can comprise less than the entirety of the corresponding display frame.

Further the method may include saving the at least one rendered display frame in a first display buffer Event . For example in one aspect the rendering module may be operable to save each respective rendered display frame into a first display buffer.

Additionally the method may include displaying the at least one display frame Event . For example in one aspect the rendering module may be operable to copy a respective rendered display frame from the first display buffer into a display memory thereby causing the respective display frame to be presented on a display mechanism. Further for example after rendering and displaying the display frame the rendering module may then utilize at least one of rendered selected element groups either in combination with another one of the group and or with one or more remaining elements to generate the next display frame. Upon completion of the rendering of the rendered display frame the rendering module may copy the rendered display frame to the display memory while discarding rendered display frame and then present the rendered display frame on the display mechanism. The actions defined above may be repeated to cause the presentation of each of the plurality of display frames within the respective display package where one or more individual or groups of static display elements are selectively rendered once saved and then copied into the rendering of one or more subsequent display frames. Thus the rendering module may cause the presentation of at least rendered display frame having a portion that includes at least one previously rendered selected element group.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further in one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

