---

title: Thermal to electricity conversion using thermal magnetic properties
abstract: A system for the generation of Electricity from Thermal Energy using the thermal magnetic properties of a Ferromagnetic, Electrically Conductive Material (FECM) in one or more Magnetic Fields. A FECM is exposed to one or more Magnetic Fields. Thermal Energy is applied to a portion of the FECM heating the FECM above its Curie Point. The FECM, now partially paramagnetic, moves under the force of the one or more Magnetic Fields. The movement of the FECM induces an electrical current through the FECM, generating Electricity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07705513&OS=07705513&RS=07705513
owner: United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07705513
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070924
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and Battelle Energy Alliance LLC.

The present invention relates to the generation of electricity from thermal energy preferably from small temperature differences. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for the conversion of thermal energy to electricity using the thermal magnetic properties of a Ferromagnetic Electrically Conductive Material.

For decades there has been a constant search for methods techniques and equipment for the generation of Electricity. Although there have been significant advances in large scale energy generation there has been little success in converting Thermal Energy heat to Electricity especially solutions capable of operating on small temperature differences. Furthermore current large scale Electricity generation systems discard significant Thermal Energy that could be used to produce additional Electricity increasing the overall efficiency of the system.

The Stirling Engine developed in 1816 is one method of generating Electricity from Thermal Energy. The Stirling Engine can achieve a rather high efficiency up to 80 of the Carnot efficiency limited only by non ideal properties of the working gas and engine materials.

Stirling Engines use a closed cycle system having a trapped gas working fluid commonly air hydrogen or helium. The engine is sealed and the engine passes through a cooling phase a compression phase a heating phase and an expansion phase. The engine moves through the various phases as the working fluid is heated by an external heat source and cooled by a cold source commonly a heat exchanger. Changes in gas temperature causes a corresponding change in gas pressure while the motion of the engine causes gas to be alternately expanded and compressed. The motion produced by the engine can be attached to an Electric Generator to produce Electricity.

Therefore the greater the temperature difference between the hot and cold sources the greater the power output of the Stirling Engine. Stirling Engines can run on low temperature differences for example the difference between room temperature and a human hand can be used by a Stirling Engine to produce about 1 watt. However these systems are large heavy and inefficient for the miniscule power they produce.

Unfortunately Stirling Engines require both input and output heat exchangers designed to contain the pressure of the working fluid at high temperatures while resisting corrosive effects of the heat source and of the atmosphere. Furthermore at low temperature differences between the hot and cold sources Stirling Engines do not produce enough energy to justify their cost weight and size. Stirling Engines also have a number of disadvantages such as the need to warm up creating a delayed start and the necessity for an Electric Generator to convert the generated mechanical energy into Electricity thereby increasing the size of the system while decreasing efficiency.

Turbines are commonly used to extract Thermal Energy from a pressurized steam converting it to Mechanical Energy. The Mechanical Energy commonly drives an Electric Generator to produce Electricity. Although these systems are commonly used they generally rely on high pressure high temperature steam which cannot be produced from small thermal sources or small temperature differences. While efficient for larger energy production Turbines are not suitable for small scale energy production.

Stirling Engines and Turbines convert Thermal Energy into Mechanical Energy which unfortunately must go through another conversion via an Electric Generator or similar device to convert the Mechanical Energy into Electricity.

Electric Generators convert Mechanical Energy into Electricity using electromagnetic induction. Electric Generators use mechanical energy to rotate a coil about a permanent or powered magnet. Smaller Electric Generators using permanent magnets are generally about 40 efficient. With smaller more powerful rare earth magnets efficiency can be increase to about 60 .

More efficient Electric Generators using a field coil in place of a permanent magnet to generate a magnetic field can achieve efficiencies of up to 90 . A battery is generally used to power the field coil before a sufficient amount of Electricity is generated by the Electric Generator itself. This external source makes field coil based Electric Generators bulky and unsuitable for smaller designs.

Unfortunately Electric Generators decrease the efficiency of a system while also adding weight and bulk for example the weight and bulk of a permanent magnet or field coil.

Magnetohydrodyamic MHD generators are another method of transforming Mechanical Energy from Stirling Engine or Turbine based systems into Electricity. Generally in MHD systems a conductive fluid is pumped by Mechanical Energy in the presence of a magnetic field. Similar to the conductive winding of an Electric Generator a current is induced in the liquid generating Electricity. Typically MHD systems are about 17 efficient making MHD systems undesirable for larger scale energy production.

Other systems similar to the one described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 191 901 hereby fully incorporated by reference utilize a MHD design using the thermal expansion properties of a liquid. In these systems thermal energy is applied to a sealed liquid. As the liquid is heated by thermal energy it is driven by free convection and moved a reduction in density of the heated liquid which pushes the liquid through the system. Unfortunately these systems have very poor efficiencies and result in an over complicated over sized and heavy solution for the energy they produce.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 510 397 2 881 384 and 2 915 652 hereby fully incorporated by reference describe devices capable of generating Electricity from temperature differences from thermionic emission within solid state devices. These devices commonly use two semiconductors an anode and a cathode. The cathode is constructed of a material having a higher work function than the anode. Application of sufficient heat to the cathode causes thermionic emission causing a small percentage of emitted electrons to reach the anode moving from the higher work function of the cathode to the lower work function of the anode . Unfortunately these systems are plagued by low power generation and poor efficiency.

Generally electrons freed by thermal energy at the cathode are motivated to traverse to the anode only by the different work functions. The presence of a cloud of free electrons in the anode tend to repel electrons emitted from the cathode known as the Space Charge Effect. This phenomenon limits electron movement between the cathode and anode to only those having a high enough velocity to pass through the Space Charge significantly reducing efficiently. Although small these systems have been unable to achieve any sizable power generation and are too cost prohibitive given the power they produce.

The foregoing solutions utilize substantially mature technologies. It is desirable to have a new method of generating electricity from thermal energy capable of maturing into methods and devices having properties unachievable by current methods.

Therefore it is desirable to generate Electricity in a compact efficient manner from small temperature differences. Furthermore it is desirable to have a system capable of directly producing Electricity without the need of an Electronic Generator adding weight size while reducing efficiency.

The present invention relates to a method and device for the direct conversion of Thermal Energy heat to Electricity. It may operate using a working fluid or may be based on the mechanical motion of a solid. Thermal Energy is used to drive a special magnetic system generating Electricity.

More specifically the present invention relates to a system for the generation of Electricity from Thermal Energy using thermal magnetic properties of a Ferromagnetic Electrically Conductive Material FECM in the presence of one or more magnetic fields. The FECM a solid or a fluid is exposed to one or more magnetic fields. Thermal Energy is applied to a portion of the FECM creating a Heated Area heated above its Curie Point the temperature above which a ferromagnetic material loses its ferromagnetism and becomes paramagnetic.

As the Heated Area becomes paramagnetic the remaining portion of the FECM the Active Magnetic Area AMA generates a force on the FECM in response to the new magnetic properties of the FECM in the presence of the one or more Magnetic Fields. The AMA generates a force due to the creation of the Heated Area. As the Heated Area is paramagnetic and has only a minimal amount of magnetic interaction the AMA produces a force to position itself more directly in the one or more Magnetic Fields therefore moving the Heated Area away the from one or more Magnetic Fields.

The movement of the FECM within the one or more magnetic fields induces an electrical current through at least an Electrically Induced Area of the FECM positioned perpendicular to a vector component of a magnetic field from the one or more magnetic fields and the movement of the FECM. The induced electrical current is then transferred from the Electrically Induced Area of the FECM to one or more electrodes thereby generating Electricity. As the FECM moves the Heated Area and AMA are continuously altered by Thermal Energy thereby continuously moving the FECM and generating electricity.

A system for the generation of Electricity from Thermal Energy using thermal magnetic properties of a Ferromagnetic Electrically Conductive Material FECM in the presence of one or more magnetic fields. A FECM is exposed to one or more magnetic fields. Thermal Energy is applied to a portion of the FECM creating a Heated Area heated above its Curie Point the temperature above which a ferromagnetic material loses its ferromagnetism and becomes paramagnetic.

As the Heated Area becomes paramagnetic the remaining portion of the FECM the Active Magnetic Area AMA generates a force on the FECM in response to the new magnetic properties of the FECM in the presence of the one or more Magnetic Fields. The AMA generates a force due to the creation of the Heated Area. As the Heated Area is paramagnetic and has only a minimal amount of magnetic interaction the AMA produces a force to position itself more directly in the one or more Magnetic Fields therefore pushing the Heated Area away the from one or more Magnetic Fields.

The movement of the FECM within the one or more magnetic fields induces an electrical current through at least an Electrically Induced Area of the FECM positioned perpendicular to a vector component of a magnetic field from the one or more magnetic fields and the movement of the FECM. The induced electrical current is then transferred from the Electrically Induced Area of the FECM to one or more electrodes thereby generating Electricity. As the FECM moves the Heated Area and AMA are continuously altered by Thermal Energy thereby continuously moving the FECM and generating electricity.

The Wheel is rotatably attached to the Casing Means . Preferably the Hub is fixedly attached to the Casing Means and the Wheel is rotatably attached to Hub . Although the Wheel is depicted as circular it can have any shape including oval shaped rectangular square shaped as well as others as known in the art but is preferably circular. The Wheel can also have a variety of unique shapes such as a saw blade shape fan blade shaped propeller shaped etc.

The Wheel has at least one Heated Area exposed to heat from the Heating Means . The Heating Means supplies Thermal Energy to the Heated Area of the Wheel heating the Heated Area at or above it Curie Point causing the Heated Area to become at least substantially paramagnetic.

The First Magnetic Field having only a negligible effect on the temporarily paramagnetic Heated Area produces a force only upon the AMA of the Wheel . The AMA is the active magnetic area of the Wheel the portion of the Wheel that is not the paramagnetic Heated Area . Therefore the force applied to the AMA of the Wheel causes the Wheel to rotate clockwise as the AMA interacts with the First Magnetic Field to position itself more directly within the First Magnetic Field . As the Wheel rotates the portion of the Wheel previously within the Heated Area rotates and is cooled by the Cooling Means restoring the ferromagnetic properties of the material. Likewise the portion of the Wheel previously in a ferromagnetic state and not heated rotates and is heated by the Heating Means . Therefore the Wheel continuously rotates as it is heated and cooled within the First Magnetic Field .

As the Heated Area becomes paramagnetic an Active Magnetic Area AMA generates a force on the Wheel in response to the new magnetic properties of the Wheel in the presence of the First Magnetic Field . The AMA generates a force due to the creation of the Heated Area . As the Heated Area is paramagnetic and has only a minimal amount of magnetic interaction the AMA produces a force to position itself more directly in the First Magnetic Field therefore pushing the Heated Area away from the First Magnetic Field . Therefore there is a force induced on the AMA by the First Magnetic Field . This force causes the Wheel to rotate counter as shown in .

In this embodiment the portion of the Wheel previously within the Heated Area rotates and is cooled by the Cooling Means restoring the ferromagnetic properties of the material. Likewise part of the Wheel previously in a ferromagnetic state and not heated rotates and is heated by the Heating Means . Therefore as the state shown in is maintained the Wheel continuously rotates from the force generated by the AMA .

In yet another alternative embodiment the Heated Area is greater than half of the Wheel preferably about of the Wheel . In this embodiment the AMA is the area of the Wheel not apart of the Heated Area . Therefore the force from the magnetic interaction between the AMA and the First Magnetic Field is relatively unopposed by the rest of the Wheel now paramagnetic and will therefore rotate the Wheel . This may be preferable in some instances however the heating of the entire Wheel may use more energy and require more energy to be used in the Cooling Means to cool a portion of the Wheel below its Curie Point.

Referring back to as the Wheel rotates the movement of the Wheel within the First Magnetic Filed the Second Magnetic Field or a combination thereof induces an electrical current through at least an Electrically Induced Area of the FECM positioned perpendicular to a vector component of the First Magnetic Filed the Second Magnetic Field or a combination thereof and the movement of the Wheel . The induced electrical current is then transferred from the Electrically Induced Area of the Wheel to the Hub and one or more electrodes . As the Wheel moves the Heated Area and AMA are continuously altered by Thermal Energy from the Heating Means thereby continuously moving the FECM and generating electricity through the Hub and the one or more electrodes . Preferably an electric load is connected to the Hub and one or more electrodes .

The Wheel is an embodiment of a FECM. The FECM is ferromagnetic at a temperature below its Curie Point and is electrically conductive. Preferably the FECM has a minimal electrical resistance and has a Curie Point optimized for the Heating Means and Cooling Means .

The FECM may be a solid as shown in a fluid shown in or combinations thereof. Various shapes and methods may be used as known in the art. In the alternative the FECM may be a ferromagnetic material which may or may not be conductive having a conductive layer or coating. In this embodiment the FECM has a conductive layer and a ferromagnetic layer. Preferably the FECM has a thick ferromagnetic layer and a thin conductive layer. More preferably the FECM is made of a single material which is both ferromagnetic and electrically conductive.

The Curie Point is the temperature at which the FECM losses its ferromagnetic properties. At temperatures below the Curie Point the magnetic moments of the FECM align creating one or more magnetic domains. As the temperature of the FECM increases towards the Curie Point thermal fluctuations increasingly destroy this alignment until the net magnetization becomes negligible relative to the ferromagnetic state at and above the Curie Point. Therefore above the Curie Point the FECM is paramagnetic having a significantly reduced magnetization.

Suitable examples of the FECMs include but are not limited to Co Fe FeOFeO NiOFeO CuOFeO MgOFeO MnBi Ni MnSb MNOFeO YFeO CrO MnAs Gd Dy EuO and combinations thereof as well as others known in the art. In a preferred embodiment the FECM is made of CrO having a Curie Point at about 386 K Kelvins 235 F. .

In the alternative the FECM may be synthesized by various methods such as using an iron powder in a fluid with a high coefficient of thermal expansion. For example iron may be suspended in mercury or gallium.

The First Magnetic Field is generated through the FECM a Wheel in the embodiment shown in . The First Magnetic Field generates the movement as the Heated Area changes from a ferromagnetic state to a paramagnetic state as it is heated to its Curie Point. If the FECM is planar such as the Wheel in the First Magnetic Field is preferably in plane with the FECM. Preferably the First Magnetic Field is one or more permanent magnets positioned close to the FECM providing a more compact design.

The strength of the First Magnetic Field is preferably optimized for the desired output considering factors such as size weight cost and reliability. Preferably the First Magnetic Field is a hard magnet. In the alternative the First Magnetic Field may be a soft magnetic which may be more efficient in designing where the Wheel rotation is not continuous.

Various methods as known in the art may be used to generate the First Magnetic Field such as permanent magnets earth magnetic powered magnets super conducting magnets electromagnetic sources and combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment one or more preferably one permanent magnets are used to generate the First Magnetic Field .

The Second Magnetic Field is generated through the FECM. In the embodiment shown in the Second Magnetic Field is preferably about perpendicular more preferably perpendicular to the FECM a Wheel . The Second Magnetic Field induces a current from the motion of the FECM which is captured for example by one or more electrodes. Preferably the Second Magnetic Field is about perpendicular to the movement of the FECM. Preferably the Second Magnetic Field is one or more permanent magnets positioned close to the FECM providing a more compact design.

Various methods as known in the art may be used to generate the Second Magnetic Field such as permanent magnets earth magnetic powered magnets super conducting magnets electromagnetic sources and combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment one or more preferably one permanent magnets are used to generate the Second Magnetic Field .

The strength of the Second Magnetic Field is preferably optimized for energy production considering factors such as size weight cost and reliability. Preferably the Second Magnetic Field is a hard magnet. In the alternative the Second Magnetic Field may be a soft magnetic which may be more efficient in designing where the Wheel rotation is stopped and started.

In the alternative the First Magnetic Field and the Second Magnetic Field are generated by the same source whereby the First Magnetic Field and the Second Magnetic Field are vector components from a single magnetic source. For example a permanent magnetic may produce a single magnetic field having vector components for the First Magnetic Field and the Second Magnetic Field . As an illustrative example a single permanent magnetic may produce a magnetic field having a vector 45 degrees from the plane of the FECM.

In the alternative the First Magnetic Field and the Second Magnetic Field are a single magnetic field capable of producing a force upon the FECM while also inducing a current from the movement of the FECM. In this embodiment the magnetic field generated does not have components for the First Magnetic Field and the Second Magnetic Field but a single magnetic field provides a means for moving the FECM while also inducing a current from the movement of the FECM. depicts one example of this embodiment where the Second Magnetic Field is omitted. In the First Magnetic Field alone produces a movement from the magnetic interaction with the FECM in a ferromagnetic state and generates electricity from the movement of said FECM within the First Magnetic Field . The omission of the Second Magnetic Field may reduce cost and result in a lighter solution.

The Heating Means provides heat to the Heated Area heating it beyond its Curie Point. The Heated Area is a portion of the FECM a Wheel in the embodiment shown in . Any known method of heating the FECM may be used. For example conduction convection or radiation may be used to heat or transfer heat to the FECM. The Heating Means preferably includes a heat source and a heat transfer method.

Examples of suitable heat sources include but are not limited heat sources such as diesel gasoline and natural gas radioactive source e.g. U238 chemical reaction solar fission geothermal and combinations thereof based heaters as well as others known in the art. Preferably heat sources such as solar fission fuels radioactive decay geothermal or combinations thereof based heaters are used by the Heating Means . Solar heat sources preferably use solar energy directly or indirectly. Preferably solar energy is used as a source by directly passing solar rays to the FECM. In the alternative solar energy may be transferred to a fluid which subsequently transfers thermal energy to the FECM. In a preferred embodiment geothermal heat is as a heat source.

Examples of suitable heat transfer methods include but are not limited to radiation and heat exchangers such as gases liquids solids or combinations thereof more preferably liquid metals or ambient air as well as other means known in the art. In a preferred embodiment liquid hydrogen or helium is used to transfer heat.

The Cooling Means provides cooling to a portion of the FECM a Wheel in the embodiment shown in cooling it below its Curie Point. Any known method of cooling the FECM may be used. For example the heat may be transferred using various heat exchangers for example but not limited to air cooling heat sinks etc. and combinations thereof as well as other methods known in the art.

In one embodiment the Cooling Means is one or more heat transfer mechanisms convection conduction radiation that reject waste heat to the environment as known by others in the art. In a preferred embodiment the Cooling Means is ambient air and the FECM is air cooled. In the alternative another thermally conductive fluid is used to transfer heat from the FECM preferably to a thermal conductive heat sink to be cooled.

One or more Electrodes are used to transfer generated electricity for further processing or use. The one or more Electrodes are positioned creating an Electrically Induced Area at least a portion of the FECM which is perpendicular to the movement of the FECM and a vector component of a magnetic field preferably the First Magnetic Field the Second Magnetic Field or a combination thereof. The one or more Electrodes are each electrically conductive and may have a variety of shapes.

The one or more Electrodes should be constructed and positioned as to not interfere with the movement of the FECM such as the Wheel in the embodiment shown in . Preferably the one or more Electrodes are conductive wire brushes ball bearings or a conductive fluid designed for low mechanical and electrical resistance.

In the embodiment shown in electricity is generated between the Hub and one or more Electrodes . In this embodiment the Hub is electrically conductive. The one or more Electrodes are connected to the Wheel whereby electrical contact is made between the one or more electrodes and the Wheel while also allowing the Wheel to freely rotate. Preferably the one or more Electrodes are conductive wire brushes ball bearings or a conductive fluid designed for low mechanical and electrical resistance.

The Casing Means is any means to connect the FECM a Wheel in the embodiment shown in to the Heating Means and the Cooling Means in the presence of the First Magnetic Field and the Second Magnetic Field . In a preferred embodiment the Casing Means is an aluminum box connecting a permanent magnet generating the First Magnetic Field a permanent magnet generating the Second Magnetic Field the Heating Means and the Cooling Means . The Casing Means can be made from a variety of materials and structures. The First Magnetic Field the Second Magnetic Field the Heating Means and the Cooling Means are preferably all contained within the Casing Means but in the alternative one or more of the First Magnetic Field the Second Magnetic Field the Heating Means and the Cooling Means may be positioned or extend outside of the Casing Means . For example the First Magnetic Field the Second Magnetic Field or a combination thereof may be positioned outside the Casing Means whereby the generated magnetic fields pass through the Casing Means .

Likewise the Heating Means the Cooling Means or a combination thereof may be positioned outside of the Casing Means . In one embodiment the Casing Means may have an opening for the Heating Means and the Cooling Means . In another embodiment the Casing Means may be thermally conductive whereby heat is passed between the Heating Means to the FECM and heat is passed between the FECM and the Cooling Means . If heat is transferred through the Casing Means thermal insulation is preferably placed to prevent heat from transferring directly between the Heating Means and the Cooling Means .

A Heating Means supplies Thermal Energy to the Heated Area of the Tube causing the Fluid within the Heated Area of the Tube to become paramagnetic as it is heated beyond its Curie Point. Although passing through the Fluid the First Magnetic Field produces a force on only within the AMA of the Fluid the area outside of the Heated Area . Therefore the force applied to the Fluid in AMA cases the Fluid to flow through the Tube as the AMA of the Fluid positions itself more directly in the First Magnetic Field .

As the Fluid flows through the Tube the Fluid previously heated while in the Heated Area moves outside the Heated Area where it is cooled by the Cooling Means restoring the ferromagnetic properties of the Fluid and generating a force from the First Magnetic Field to continue the flow of the Fluid .

As the Fluid flows through the Tube one or more Bottom Electrodes and one or more Top Electrodes are used to transfer generated electricity for further processing or use. The one or more Bottom Electrodes and one or more Top Electrodes are positioned creating an Electrically Induced Area at least a portion of the Fluid which is perpendicular to the movement of the Fluid and a vector component of the First Magnetic Field . The one or more Bottom Electrodes and one or more Top Electrodes are each electrically conductive and may have a variety of shapes. Therefore electricity is generated across one or more Bottom Electrodes and one or more Top Electrodes from Thermal Energy across the Heated Area of the Tube .

As shown in the Fluid is a liquid gas or a combination thereof preferably the Fluid is a liquid. Although the movement of the Fluid does not rely on pressure or thermal expansion it is preferably confined by a Tube as shown in . As known in the art conventional thermal mass transport drives can add to the movement of the Fluid beyond the force generated by magnetic interaction with the First Magnetic Field . Although the Tube depicted in is oval shaped it can have any shape including circular shaped rectangular square shaped as well as others as known in the art but is preferably oval shaped. The Tube containing the Fluid can also be a variety of unique shapes such as a saw blade shape fan blade shaped propeller shaped etc.

The Tube shown in confines the Fluid and is preferably made of a plastic or a ceramic. The Tube is preferably constructed of an electrically insulating material to prevent an electrical short between the one or more Top Electrodes and the one or more Bottom Electrode . In the alternative the Tube is constructed of an electrically conductive material but has an electrically insulating separation between the Top and the Bottom of the Tube in order to prevent an electrical short.

In the alternative a plurality Magnetic Fields may be used. For example a second magnetic field orthogonal to the First Magnetic Field may be used to generate electricity from the flow of the Fluid using electrodes in various configurations.

The Fluid is preferably a liquid synthesized by various methods such as using an iron powder in a fluid. For example iron may be suspended in mercury or gallium. In another embodiment the Fluid is salt water.

Preferably a Magnetic Conductor fills the inner area created by the Tube . The Magnetic Conductor is magnetically conductive and may be constructed of one or more materials. Preferably the Magnetic Conductor is made of iron and electrically and thermally insulated from the Fluid . For example the Tube or one or more additional layers may serve as thermal and electric insulators.

If the Ferromagnetic Wheel is electrically conductive an insulating layer is preferably positioned between each coil and the Ferromagnetic Wheel . In a preferred embodiment the FECM is a CrOWheel having a plurality of coils each insulated from each other and the Ferromagnetic Wheel by an electrically insulating layer made of porcelain glass plastics or a combination thereof.

In this embodiment the Electrically Induced Area are the one or more Coils each have Two Electrodes which are preferably alternately electrically connected to a Load . In this embodiment the Ferromagnetic Wheel is rotatably connected to the Casing Means via a Hub and in plane to the magnetic field generated by the First Magnet . The magnetic field generated by the Second Magnet is preferably perpendicular to the plane of the Ferromagnetic Wheel and therefore also perpendicular to the magnetic field generated by the First Magnet .

In this embodiment the First Magnet is preferably a permanent magnet wrapped around part of the Ferromagnetic Wheel whereby a magnetic field is created in plane to the Ferromagnetic Wheel . Preferably the Ferromagnetic Wheel is positioned close to the First Magnet providing a compact device. In this embodiment the Second Magnet is preferably a permanent magnet having a horse shoe shape. Preferably the magnetic field generated by the Second Magnet is perpendicular to the plane of the Ferromagnetic Wheel .

The Ferromagnetic Wheel has a Heated Area exposed to heat from the Heating Means . The Heating Means supplies Thermal Energy to the Heated Area of the Ferromagnetic Wheel causing the Heated Area of the Ferromagnetic Wheel to become paramagnetic as it is heated beyond the Curie Point of the Ferromagnetic Wheel material. The magnetic field produced by the First Magnet therefore produces a force only upon the AMA of the Ferromagnetic Wheel the area outside of the Heated Area . Therefore the Ferromagnetic Wheel rotates from the force generated by the AMA of the Ferromagnetic Wheel as the AMA positions itself more directly within the field created by the First Magnet .

As the Ferromagnetic Wheel rotates the material of the Ferromagnetic Wheel previously heated rotates out of the Heated Area where it is cooled by ambient air restoring the ferromagnetic properties of the material and generating a force from the First Magnet to continue the rotation of the Ferromagnetic Wheel .

As the Ferromagnetic Wheel rotates the magnetic field generated by the First Magnet the magnetic field generated by the Second Magnet or a combination thereof induce an electrical current in a coil from the Coils between the Two Electrodes . The current is supplied into the Load via an electrical connection between a terminal on the Load and a corresponding electrode from the Two Electrodes . Preferably the Load is alternately electrically connected to the Two Electrodes by electrically conductive Wire Brushes as the Ferromagnetic Wheel is rotated. Therefore Electricity is generated within the Coils from Thermal Energy across the Heated Area of the Ferromagnetic Wheel .

When the Coils are connected to the Two Electrodes the Coils each preferably move perpendicular to the magnetic field generated by the First Magnet the magnetic field generated by the Second Magnet or a combination thereof. For example the Coils may each be a conductive layer coating wire etc placed above below or within the Ferromagnetic Wheel having a Conductive Layer . Alternately the Ferromagnetic Wheel may have one or more conductive layers separated by an insulating material creating a coil.

In a preferred embodiment as shown in the Coils are one or more conductive coils running perpendicular to the magnetic field generated by the Second Magnet . Although depicts a single coil any number of coils may be used as known in the art. Preferably a plurality of electrically conductive coils are used.

As known in the art any conductive path may be used in place of each coil from the Coils . For example straight conductors may run from the outer rim of the Ferromagnetic Wheel to an inner hub. Preferably one or more Coils are used since one or more coils will be one efficient method of generating an electrical current from the rotation of the Ferromagnetic Wheel .

The Ferromagnetic Wheel is made of a material which is ferromagnetic at a temperature below its Curie Point. Preferably the Ferromagnetic Wheel has a Curie Point optimized for the Heating Means and Cooling Means ambient air and the each coil has a minimal electrical resistance.

As in the Wheel has at least one Heated Area exposed to heat from the Heating Means . The Heating Means supplies Thermal Energy to the Heated Area of the Wheel heating the Heated Area at or above it Curie Point causing the Heated Area to become at least substantially paramagnetic.

The First Magnetic Field having only a negligible effect on the temporarily paramagnetic Heated Area produces a force only upon the AMA of the Wheel . The AMA is the active magnetic area of the Wheel the portion of the Wheel that is not the paramagnetic Heated Area . Therefore the force applied to the AMA of the Wheel causes the Wheel to clockwise as the AMA interacts with the First Magnetic Field to position itself more directly within the First Magnetic Field . As the Wheel rotates the portion of the Wheel previously within the Heated Area rotates and is cooled by the Cooling Means restoring the ferromagnetic properties of the material. Likewise the portion of the Wheel previously in a ferromagnetic state and not heated rotates and is heated by the Heating Means . Therefore the Wheel continuously rotates as it is heated and cooled within the First Magnetic Field .

In this embodiment Two Perpendicular Electrodes are used to transfer generated electricity for further processing or use. The one or more Electrodes are positioned creating an Electrically Induced Area at least a portion of the Wheel which is perpendicular to the movement of the Wheel and a vector component of a the First Magnetic Field . The Two Perpendicular Electrodes are each electrically conductive and may have a variety of shapes.

In this embodiment the First Magnetic Field and the Heat Means cause the movement of the FECM and the First Magnetic Field generates electricity across Two Perpendicular Electrodes . Preferably electricity is extracted off the Two Perpendicular Electrodes at a point where the Wheel is traveling at a vector about perpendicular to the First Magnetic Field to generate the most electricity.

In an alternative embodiment the direct electricity generating features of the FECM may be forgone. For example a ferromagnetic material may be moved by thermal energy using the mechanisms described above and electricity generated from various means preferably by an electric generator. In the alternative a ferromagnetic material may be moved by thermal energy using the mechanisms described above to move a fluid or solid. For example a flywheel fan or water pump may be powered by thermal energy using the mechanisms described above.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

