---

title: Optical-to-electrical converter and analog-to-digital converter thereof
abstract: An analog-to-digital converter (ADC) for converting an optical signal into an electrical signal is disclosed. The ADC includes a detection module, a first P-type metal oxide semiconductor (PMOS) transistor, a first N-type metal oxide semiconductor (NMOS) transistor, a first switch unit, and an output module. The first PMOS transistor and the first NMOS transistor form an inverter. The first switch unit is disposed between the input terminal and the output terminal of the inverter and is turned on/off according to a first control signal. The output module is coupled to the output terminal of the inverter for counting the time that an input voltage is greater than a reference voltage and generating a digital signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07659844&OS=07659844&RS=07659844
owner: Au Optronics Corporation
number: 07659844
owner_city: Hsinchu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20071221
---
This application claims the priority benefit of Taiwan application serial no. 96127474 filed on Jul. 27 2007. The entirety of the above mentioned patent application is hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this specification.

The present invention relates to an analog to digital converter ADC and in particular to an ADC for converting an optical signal into an electrical signal.

Additionally the output terminal of the comparator is coupled to the negative input terminal of the comparator . The positive input terminal of the comparator is grounded and the output terminal thereof is coupled to the control logic unit . Accordingly the control logic unit can control the switch unit to couple the negative input terminal of the comparator to the input voltage Vor the reference voltage Vand control the on off of the switch unit according to the output of the comparator and a clock signal CLK. In addition the output terminal of the control logic unit is coupled to the counter so that the counter counts the clock signal CLK according to the output of the control logic unit and generate a digital signal.

In general the comparators and are respectively composed of a plurality of transistors. However if these transistors are fabricated through low temperature poly silicon processes the threshold voltages of the transistors will drift along the operation time thereof. Incorrect digital signal may be output by the counter if the threshold voltages of the comparators and drift.

To resolve foregoing problem and optimize the conversion from an analog signal to a digital signal an ADC with reduced transistor threshold voltage drift is provided by the present invention.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to an analog to digital converter ADC wherein transistor threshold voltage drift in the comparators is reduced and the power consumption of the comparators is also reduced.

The present invention is directed to an optical to electrical converter having an ADC wherein a large optical current range can be detected and a large dynamic range to be detected by a detector is provided.

The present invention provides an ADC including a first P type metal oxide semiconductor PMOS transistor a first N type metal oxide semiconductor PMOS transistor a first switch unit an output module a source follower a capacitor a second switch unit and a third switch unit. The first terminal of the first PMOS transistor is coupled to a first bias the second terminal thereof is coupled to the first terminal of the first NMOS transistor and the gate terminal thereof is selectively coupled to an input voltage or a reference voltage.

The first terminal and the gate terminal of the first NMOS transistor are respectively coupled to the second terminal and the gate terminal of the first PMOS transistor so that the first NMOS transistor and the first PMOS transistor form an inverter for inverting an input signal. Besides the second terminal of the first NMOS transistor is grounded.

The first switch unit is disposed between the second terminal and the gate terminal of the first PMOS transistor. The first terminal of the first switch unit is coupled to the gate terminal of the first PMOS transistor the second terminal thereof is coupled to the second terminal of the first PMOS transistor and the gate terminal thereof receives a first control signal. The first switch unit is turned on off according to the first control signal.

The output module is coupled to the first terminal of the first NMOS transistor for counting the time that the input voltage is greater than the reference voltage and generating a digital signal.

The capacitor is disposed between the gate terminal of the first PMOS transistor and the output terminal of the source follower. The output terminal of the source follower is coupled to the capacitor and the input terminal thereof is coupled to the input voltage through the second switch unit. Besides the input terminal of the source follower is coupled to the reference voltage through the third switch unit.

One terminal of the second switch unit receives the input voltage and the other terminal thereof is coupled to the input terminal of the source follower. The second switch unit is turned on off according to a second control signal. One terminal of the third switch unit receives the reference voltage and the other terminal thereof is coupled to the input terminal of the source follower. The third switch unit is turned on off according to the first control signal wherein the first control signal and the second control signal are inverted to each other.

The present invention provides an optical to electrical converter including a detection module a first PMOS transistor a first NMOS transistor a first switch unit and an output module. The first terminal of the first PMOS transistor is coupled to a first bias and the gate terminal thereof is selectively coupled to a reference voltage or the detection module. The detection module detects the surrounding light intensity and generates an input voltage which is received by the gate terminal of the first PMOS transistor.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the second terminal of the first NMOS transistor is grounded and the first terminal and the gate terminal thereof are respectively coupled to the second terminal and the gate terminal of the first PMOS transistor so that the first NMOS transistor and the first PMOS transistor form an inverter for inverting an input signal. The first switch unit is disposed between the second terminal and the gate terminal of the first PMOS transistor and is turned on off according to a first clock signal. The output module is coupled to the first terminal of the first NMOS transistor for counting a time that the input voltage is greater than the reference voltage and generating a digital signal.

In an ADC provided by the present invention a first switch unit is disposed in the inverter formed by a PMOS transistor and an NMOS transistor. The first switch unit is disposed between the input terminal and the output terminal of the inverter. When the first switch unit is turned on the voltage levels at the input terminal and the output terminal of the inverter are the same such that a straight line having a slope of 45 is formed in the electrical characteristic graph of the inverter and this straight line intersects the electrical characteristic curve of the inverter at a particular point. The voltage value at this point will not drift along the operation time of the inverter thus the affection caused by threshold voltage drift to the comparators can be reduced.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present preferred embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the description to refer to the same or like parts.

In the present embodiment the inverter includes a PMOS transistor and an NMOS transistor . The first terminal of the PMOS transistor is coupled to a first bias V the second terminal thereof is coupled to the output terminal of the inverter and the gate terminal thereof is coupled to the input terminal of the inverter . The first terminal of the NMOS transistor is coupled to the output terminal of the inverter the second terminal thereof is grounded and the gate terminal thereof is coupled to the output terminal of the inverter .

In particular a switch unit spans over the input terminal and the output terminal of the inverter . In the present embodiment the switch unit may be an NMOS transistor wherein the first terminal of the NMOS transistor is coupled to the input terminal of the inverter the second terminal thereof is coupled to the output terminal of the inverter and the gate terminal thereof receives a control signal REST.

The output module includes NMOS transistors and an OR gate a SR latch a D flip flop and a counter . The first terminal of the NMOS transistor is coupled to the input terminal of the output module the second terminal thereof is coupled to an input terminal of the OR gate and the gate terminal thereof is coupled to a control signal XREST. The first terminal of the NMOS transistor is coupled to the second terminal of the NMOS transistor the second terminal thereof is grounded and the gate terminal thereof is coupled to the control signal REST. The other input terminal of the OR gate is coupled to a set signal Last and the output terminal thereof is coupled to the set terminal of the SR latch .

The set terminal of the SR latch is coupled to the output terminal of the OR gate and the output terminal thereof is coupled to the D flip flop . The SR latch generates the asynchronous latch signal ASR according to the output of the OR gate . The output of the D flip flop is coupled to the counter . The counter generates a digital signal according to the output of the D flip flop and a clock signal CLK.

The detection module includes a source follower a switch unit a switch unit an NMOS transistor a photo detector and a capacitor . The photo detector may be implemented with a photo diode wherein the anode of the diode is coupled to a bias V and the cathode thereof is coupled to the input terminal of the source follower through the switch unit The output terminal of the source follower is coupled to the output terminal of the detection module .

The first terminal of the NMOS transistor is coupled to a bias V the second terminal thereof is coupled to the cathode of the photo detector and the gate terminal thereof receives the asynchronous latch signal ASR. One terminal of the capacitor is coupled to the cathode of the photo detector and the other terminal thereof is coupled to the bias V. The reference voltage Vis coupled to the input terminal of the source follower through the switch unit

The switch unit in the detection module includes a PMOS transistor and an NMOS transistor . The first terminal of the PMOS transistor is coupled to the cathode of the photo detector the second source drain thereof is coupled to the input terminal of the source follower and the gate terminal thereof is coupled to the control signal REST. The first terminal of the NMOS transistor is coupled to the cathode of the photo detector the second terminal thereof is coupled to the input terminal of the source follower and the gate terminal thereof is coupled to the control signal XREST.

The switch unit c includes a PMOS transistor and an NMOS transistor . The first terminal of the PMOS transistor is coupled to the reference voltage V the second source drain thereof is coupled to the input terminal of the source follower and the gate terminal thereof is coupled to the control signal XREST. The first terminal of the NMOS transistor is coupled to the reference voltage V the second terminal thereof is coupled to the input terminal of the source follower and the gate terminal thereof is coupled to the control signal REST. The control signal REST and the control signal XREST are inverted to each other thus the switch unit is turned off when the switch unit is turned on.

Below the implementation of the source follower in the present embodiment will be described with reference to an embodiment of the present invention.

At time point t the set signal Last and the control signal REST are at high level while the control signal XREST is at low level and the set signal Last is pulled from low level up to high level. When the control signal REST is at high level the NMOS transistor is turned on and the NMOS transistor is turned off so that the node voltage Vis at low level and is input to an input terminal of the OR gate . However the output of the OR gate is at high level because the set signal Last is input to the other terminal of the OR gate . The output of the OR gate makes the SR latch to issue a high level asynchronous latch signal ASR to the NMOS transistor . Accordingly the NMOS transistor is turned on so that the photo detector generates a detection current Iaccording to the light intensity it received and charges the capacitor . Here the input voltage Vincreases slowly.

On the other hand the control signal REST and the control signal XREST are inverted to each other therefore at time point to the control signal REST is at high level and the control signal XREST is at low level so that the switch unit and the switch unit are turned on and the switch unit is substantially open circuited. Because the switch unit is turned on the voltage levels at the input terminal and the output terminal of the inverter are equal to a threshold voltage V and accordingly the voltage difference between two terminals of the capacitor is V V.

Referring to again at time point t the set signal Last is pulled down to low level and the control signal REST is also transited to low level. Here because the node voltage Vis maintained at low level the output of the OR gate is also pulled down to low level and accordingly the SR latch issues a low level asynchronous latch signal ASR to the NMOS transistor and the D flip flop . Thus the NMOS transistor is turned off and accordingly the photo detector stops generating the detection current I. In addition after the D flip flop receives the low level asynchronous latch signal ASR it transmits the low level asynchronous latch signal ASR to the counter according to the clock signal CLK and makes the counter to start counting the time that the output of the D flip flop is at low level at time point t.

On the other hand because the control signal REST is transited to low level the switch unit and the NMOS transistor are turned on. Correspondingly the control signal XREST is pulled down to low level and accordingly the switch unit the switch unit and the NMOS transistor are turned off. Here the input voltage Vcharges the capacitor so that the voltage difference between two terminals of the capacitor is V V V.

Initially the input voltage Vis greater than the reference voltage V thus the voltage at the input terminal of the inverter is high level so that the PMOS transistor is turned off and the NMOS transistor is turned on. Thereby the output of the inverter is at low level so that the node voltage Vis also maintained at low level. Here the capacitor starts to discharge and accordingly the input voltage Vdecreases slowly.

At time point t the input voltage Vis equal to the voltage difference V Vat two terminals of the capacitor . Here the voltage at the input terminal of the inverter is at low level so that the PMOS transistor is turned on and the NMOS transistor is turned off. Thereby the output of the inverter is pulled up to Vso that the node voltage Valso increases to Vslowly.

Accordingly at time point t the output of the OR gate is at high level and accordingly the SR latch issues a high level asynchronous latch signal ASR to the D flip flop . The D flip flop transmits the high level asynchronous latch signal ASR to the counter according to the clock signal CLK. When the counter detects that the output of the. D flip flop is at high level the counter stops counting and output a digital signal. In the present embodiment the digital signal records the time T that the high level asynchronous latch signal ASR is maintained at low level.

In general the relationship between the detection current I the input voltage V and the time T can be expressed as 

In the embodiment described above the inverter includes a PMOS transistor and an NMOS transistor and a switch unit is coupled between the input terminal and the output terminal of the inverter . Through appropriate cooperation between the PMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor and the fact that the voltages at the input terminal and the output terminal of the inverter are the same when the switch unit is turned on the affection caused by threshold voltage drift to the comparators can be greatly reduced.

While the invention has been described by way of example and in terms of the preferred embodiment it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. To the contrary it is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore the scope of the appended claims should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements.

