---

title: Systems and methods for streamlining the provisioning of wireless applications in an organization
abstract: Systems and methods for streamlining the procurement and provisioning of devices, services, and applications are described. At least one embodiment includes a method comprising receiving a request from a member associated with an organization, the request operable to select at least one application to be executed on at least one device, the at least one device configured to operate at least one service; receiving a device selection based on the at least one requested application; receiving a service selection based on the device selection; generating orders to one or more entities, the one or more entities operable to fulfill the device request, service selection, and the application selection; and procuring the at least one device, the at least one device being provisioned with the selected service and the selected application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08433618&OS=08433618&RS=08433618
owner: Tangoe, Inc.
number: 08433618
owner_city: Orange
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070731
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application entitled A METHOD FOR STREAMLINING THE PROVISIONING OF WIRELESS APPLICATIONS IN AN ORGANIZATION having Ser. No. 60 834 497 filed on Jul. 31 2006 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to the provisioning of software applications and more particularly relates to provisioning of wireless applications for an organization.

The procurement and provisioning of a wireless application on an electronic device is a complex multi step process that can be both time consuming and expensive and further presents a significant obstacle to the large scale deployment of complex wireless devices and services within organizations. By way of illustration reference is made to which shows a flow diagram for a conventional method typically used by the member of an organization to procure and provision one or more wireless applications. Beginning in step a member of an organization or someone acting on behalf of the member conducts research on the mobile devices and then purchases a device. Furthermore a new service plan for the device is activated. Alternatively an existing service plan may be transferred to the purchased device . The member procures a mobile device compatible with the desired applications by using one of several different methods e.g. going to a retail store ordering on line via the Internet etc. . In step after the member purchases the device the member then selects and acquires client applications to be executed on the newly procured device.

In step the member or an application administrator within the organization installs any client software needed to support the desired application s . Generally the member or third party acting on behalf of that member who will install the client side software then provides information regarding the device and the client application software to the application administrator so that the application administrator can perform provisioning on the server side to support the newly installed application s step . In some instances this may entail physically handing the device to the application administrator for server side provisioning. Once the server side provisioning is completed in step the device with the client application s installed is returned to the member. Next in step the member undergoes training on how to use the newly installed application. Finally the application is available for use by the member step .

Reference is now made to which is a flow diagram illustrating another conventional method for procuring and provisioning wireless applications. Beginning in block a device capable of supporting the desired application s is first requested by a member. Furthermore a service plan is selected. In block a determination is made on whether or not the member already has available the desired service e.g. carrier circuit switched voice service carrier data transport services local area services . If the member does not have the service then the new service will be requested and the service will be activated for the requested device in block . However if the member already has the desired service then that service will be transferred to the requested device in block .

In block the device is received by the member and in block a determination is made on whether the member or someone acting on behalf of the member e.g. a contractor hired by the organization to perform such work a network administrator a support person in the organization an application must install the application s . If the member does not need to install the application s then in block the member delivers the device to appropriate third party. Alternately the device can be delivered directly to the appropriate third party assuming that the member knows who the third party is a priori and has their delivery information e.g. address . The third party may be an application administrator within the organization for example. If the application s must be installed then in block any license s associated with the software or service required for the application s is acquired. In block a determination is made on whether the procured device will actually support the selected application s . If it is determined that the device cannot support the application s due to operating system incompatibility or insufficient memory for instance then the device is returned back to the party from which it was acquired block and the member must restart the process again with a new device.

Reference is made to beginning at node A. If the device is capable of supporting the desired application s then in block the one or more applications are installed on the device and configured as needed to operate with the appropriate services. If the application s requires a corresponding server to operate e.g. the application is a client server based application then in block the application is installed and configured on the corresponding server by the appropriate party. Once the application s is fully installed and configured the application s is tested in block .

In decision block a determination is made on whether the application s was properly installed by a member of the organization. If the application s was not installed by a member then in block the device is returned back to the member without the application s installed as an unauthorized installation was attempted. If the application s was installed by a member the member is trained on the use of the application in block . Finally in block other administrative functions associated with the procurement and provisioning of applications such as financial accounting of costs associated with the device costs for service activation and costs for the installation of application s e.g. client access licenses are completed.

As seen from FIGS. and A B conventional approaches by which organizations procure and provision wireless applications is generally inefficient and has the potential for error. For example if the member fails to perform adequate research to determine the compatibility of the device with the application s to be installed the member may potentially purchase an incompatible device. If this occurs the incompatible device must be returned for a compatible one. A compatible device will then have to be procured and provisioned. As another example once a compatible device is procured the member may need to acquire client software needed to support the device and then install this software. The member must coordinate the provisioning of the device with the server software with the application administrator in order to affect the end to end provisioning of the application. Depending upon the workload of the administrator a significant period of time can pass before the request is completed. Finally another apparent shortcoming is that a member might need to acquire the necessary training materials and or arrange for the necessary training in order to use the applications installed on the device.

Thus a perceived shortcoming with conventional approaches is that methods currently used by telecom and IT departments within organizations to procure and provision such wireless applications are complex time consuming and expensive. Furthermore the burden of procuring and provisioning falls on the procurer i.e. member or someone acting on behalf of the member and the administrator. Consequently conventional methods represent a significant impediment to large scale deployment of wireless applications. Therefore there is a need in the industry to overcome these deficiencies and inadequacies of current wireless application deployment methods to better streamline the process of procuring and provisioning these wireless applications.

Briefly described one embodiment among others includes a method for provisioning applications for a device. The method comprising receiving a request from a member associated with an organization the request operable to select at least one application to be executed on at least one device the at least one device configured to operate at least one service receiving a device selection based on the at least one requested application receiving a service selection based on the device selection generating orders to one or more entities the one or more entities operable to fulfill the device request service selection and the application selection and procuring the at least one device the at least one device being provisioned with the selected service and the selected application.

Another embodiment includes a system for provisioning applications for a device where the system is configured to receive a request from a member the request operable to procure at least one device the at least one device configured to operate at least one service the device further configured to execute at least one application. The system is further configured to receive a service selection and an application selection from the member.

Yet another embodiment includes a system for provisioning applications for a device comprising means for receiving a request from a procuring entity at a provisioning management module the request operable to procure at least one device the at least one device configured to operate at least one service the device further configured to execute at least one application. The system further comprises means for receiving a service selection and an application selection from the procuring entity at the provisioning management module means for generating orders to one or more entities at substantially the same time the one or more entities operable to fulfill the device request service selection and the application selection and means for procuring the at least one device wherein the at least one device is provisioned with the selected service and the selected application.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are various embodiments of systems and methods for streamlining the process of procuring and provisioning devices services and applications thereby increasing the likelihood of successful large scale wireless application deployment within an organization. For purposes of nomenclature used herein an organization generally refers to a group with one or more members sharing a common interest e.g. a family club proprietorship partnership corporation governmental agency etc. and a member or procuring entity procurer generally refers to a member or employee of an organization business family or other group of users who seeks to procure a user device and seeks to provision one or more applications for that particular device. A user device may include but is not limited to one of the following a device adapted for wireless local area only service a device adapted for wireless wide area only service or a Fixed Mobile Converged FMC device adapted for wireless local area network WiLAN service and wireless wide area network WiWAN service. Furthermore for certain embodiments the user device is a device capable of being configured for various types of services. As non limiting examples the device may be configured for wireless services land line telecommunications services television services data services music services and gaming services. Generally applications refer to any type of license software or software as a service designed for operation on a device. Non limiting examples of applications include corporate e mail software software used for tracking inventory and web browsers.

To more efficiently perform large scale deployment of applications on such user devices particularly within an organization embodiments described herein address various perceived shortcomings of conventional methods for procuring and provisioning wireless applications. Specifically the systems and methods described herein reduce the number of steps as well as the complexity of the overall process for procurement and provisioning. The present disclosure describes improved methods for provisioning a user device installing one or more applications and installing one or more services concurrently while the user device is being procured. It should be emphasized that although the disclosure refers at times to a single user device application or service the disclosed embodiments may be incorporated for a plurality of devices applications and servers.

Furthermore computer programs are disclosed herein for transacting the procurement and provisioning of the device to accommodate multiple applications and services. The computer programs may also include logic for configuring the device for compatibility with and among the applications and services. The following description includes exemplary embodiments designed to simplify the procurement and provisioning methods and to promote a more desirable deployment process for deploying multi application and multi service devices to members.

Reference is now made to which shows a data flow diagram illustrating operation of an embodiment of a system for performing procurement and provisioning of wireless applications for a corresponding compatible device. It should be emphasized that illustrates a less complex streamlined process for procuring devices and provisioning wireless applications. Generally a member procurer within an organization first communicates with a provisioning management module . The member utilizes the provisioning management module to procure one or more applications.

The provisioning management module generates subscriber and system profile information required for provisioning a selected device for selected applications and services. The provisioning management module then forwards the profile to a fulfiller s or fulfilling entity ies which receives the necessary device profile information required to provision the applications on the device. The fulfiller s can be any suitable entity for fulfilling an order for a device or services. As non limiting examples the fulfiller s may be a wireless service carrier a device vendor a logistics vendor an agent the member himself or other members within the organization etc.

If the member has any existing services the fulfiller s activates or transfers the services to the selected device and installs the necessary client software needed to implement the requested applications onto the device. It should be appreciated that the task flow shown in provides an optimized process compared to the complex procedures utilized in conventional approaches. It should be noted that the simplified task flow shown in may be used as a business model for simplifying the procuring process for wireless applications and address various perceived shortcomings with conventional approaches. It should also be emphasized that the task flow in provides a fully provisioned device to the member in a timely manner when compared to conventional approaches. Other benefits may become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art to make the procurement process simpler for the member procurer. The steps outlined above are now described in more detail.

Beginning in step a member of an organization first interfaces with a provisioning management system which allows the member to select a device and a service plan. The provisioning management system also allows the member to select wireless applications to be installed onto a selected device. A check is performed on the member to generate a list of wireless applications to which the member is eligible to gain access to. Eligibility may be based on such criteria as the member s position title or other rules defined by the organization . Furthermore a list of devices which are compatible with the eligible application s is generated. As with the list of applications the list of devices may be restricted to devices which the member is eligible to select from.

Once the member selects a device a list of wireless services which supports the particular device selected is displayed from which the member can select. A request for procuring and provisioning the device and selected services and applications is then ready to be transmitted. For certain embodiments the organization may require that the combined application device carrier request first be routed to appropriate parties within the organization for approval before the request is actually routed to entities i.e. fulfillers to fulfill the request. It should be noted that for certain embodiments this provides an audit trail which may later be examined to show that the organization has proper controls implemented for accounting purposes for example.

Once the request is approved within the organization the request may be divided into various transactions necessary to complete the procurement and provisioning of the device service application combination. It should be noted that for exemplary embodiments the request is divided into multiple transactions so that the transactions may be executed concurrently or in a substantially concurrent manner thereby speeding up the procurement provisioning process. In step for instance an order for the selected application is sent to a logistics vendor . Any client software required for the selected applications will then be installed on the device by the logistics vendor . In step a separate transaction request for activating a new service or for transferring existing service along with any necessary device specific information required for provisioning will be forwarded to or directly executed by the selected wireless carrier . In turn the wireless carrier will provide the logistics vendor with any information required by the device to allow it to be registered with the wireless carrier . The fully provisioned device will then be shipped to the member in step so that the member may utilize the device.

Once the device applications and carrier services have been procured and provisioned and the information is sent to the provisioning management module any server side configuration that is required will be performed in step . In some embodiments this may be performed directly by a corresponding server side application interface or by forwarding the information to appropriate application administrators . For such embodiments provisioning data such as user profile data may be delivered through such means as SMTP Simple Mail Transport Protocol . Alternatively the user profile data may be transported as an HTML Hyptertext Markup Language file an XML Extensible Markup Language file or by some other API application programming interface . It should be emphasized that at the same time instructions or training manuals for using the selected applications can be sent to the member by electronic means e.g. e mail or other means step .

Finally all financial transactions associated with the procurement and provisioning process e.g. device purchase costs initiation fees for service agreements fees associated with acceptance of software licenses are recorded at both the organization and at the respective vendors where accounts receivable A R transactions may be generated for example. For some embodiments this information is transmitted to the vendor in the form of a purchase order. Within the organization an invoice may be received for the fees associated with the procurement provisioning process and entered into a general ledger and may be recorded as an account payable A P . It should be noted that for certain embodiments the organization captures allocation tracking information e.g. cost centers and sends this information to financial systems so when invoices are received they invoices can be properly allocated.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram illustrating an embodiment of the provisioning management module shown in . The provisioning management module is configured to perform procurement and provisioning of services and applications on a device. Specifically the provisioning management module is responsible for performing and supervising the application provisioning workflow shown in .

For exemplary embodiments the provisioning management module includes among other things a processor memory a network interface and input output devices each connected to an internal bus . The memory includes among other things a read only memory ROM component and a random access memory RAM component . The ROM component includes among other things a provisioning manager an authorization module order generator and a device application service catalogue . The RAM component includes among other things a member profile information register and a compatible devices register .

The processor generally controls the operations of the provisioning management module and executes software stored in the memory . The provisioning manager of memory includes logic or software for managing the provisioning of a member device for applications and services. Details of the operations and functions of the provisioning manager are described more fully below. The network interface provides a communication path between the provisioning management module and a network not shown such as the Internet. In this regard the provisioning management module can communicate with a member or procurer who can access the provisioning management module when necessary. The I O devices of the provisioning management module may include for example various peripheral devices such as computer monitors printers keyboards etc. allowing communication with a system operator or other administrator who operates or maintains the provisioning management module .

For certain embodiments the provisioning management module can be placed in any suitable facility or location where the network interface can properly communicate with the network. In this way the network interface can be associated with a web address or URL for example and the member or procurer can provide requests via the network interface . In some embodiments the network interface is omitted from the provisioning management module . In this latter case the system operator or administrator can manually enter data received from the member or procurer by way of other input mechanisms or methods such as by telephone facsimile e mail etc.

The provisioning management module can be implemented in association with the Internet or the World Wide Web. Alternatively instead of implementing the provisioning management module via use of the Internet or the World Wide Web the device may be implemented via use of a first transmitting and receiving device such as but not limited to a modem located at a customer premises which is in communication with a second transmitting and receiving device such as but not limited to a modem located at a central office. In accordance with such an embodiment personal computers may be located at the customer premises and the central office having logic provided therein to perform functions in accordance with the provisioning management module .

Furthermore the provisioning management module and provisioning manager in whole or in part can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the provisioning manager is implemented in software or firmware and stored in memory of the provisioning management module . In this respect the provisioning manager is executed by a suitable execution system such as processor . If implemented in hardware as in alternative embodiments the provisioning manager can be implemented with any combination of discrete logic circuitry or as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable gate array PGA field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The provisioning manager when implemented in software can be stored on any suitable computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium for example may be magnetically stored and transported on a conventional portable computer diskette. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium.

It should be noted that the provisioning management module can be configured to provide provisioning service to any number of clients via client servers processors etc. As a non limiting example if five separately located clients utilize the provisioning management module five separate client processors may be connected to a single client server or five separate client servers. The client processor s may be any suitable device such as a personal computer laptop workstation or mainframe computer for accessing the provisioning management module . Furthermore the network interface may be configured with security and encryption hardware and or software for the purposes of ensuring the confidentiality of information transmitted within and between the respective networks.

A procurement request for wireless devices wireless applications and wireless services can be made via a procurement request form such as one rendered via the Internet or using other electronic mechanisms. In some embodiments requests can be made by voice commands or by using paper forms mailed or transmitted via facsimile to a facility that houses the provisioning management module . The received request can be entered automatically into the provisioning management module or entered manually using input devices . In this regard it should be emphasized that the procurement and provisioning steps disclosed herein may be performed manually or in an automated fashion. Referring back briefly to . In some embodiments the procurement request may be entered by a member via a procurement portal as shown in . For such embodiments the member may simply log into a web portal through the Internet to specify the device along with the desired services and applications.

Referring back to the processor executes the provisioning manager and analyzes procurement requests to determine the compatibility viability and or validity of the requested elements including but not limited to parameters characteristics limitations etc. of the user device applications wide area service provider and or local area service provider or infrastructure. Once compatibility has been verified the processor routes the device services request for approval to an appropriate entity. In some embodiments the entity may be specified in a table or database correlating various compatibility parameters. If the request is approved the request is split into multiple provisioning requests. As a non limiting example one request may be generated to order a selected user device. Other requests may correspond to for example a specific application configuration on a server a wireless wide area service a wireless local area service or other types or numbers of multiple services.

In some embodiments the provisioning management module can be combined or incorporated with service plan optimization systems. Further details regarding service plan optimization systems are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 758 816 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ANALYZING WIRELESS COMMUNICATION RECORDS AND FOR DETERMINING WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SERVICE PLANS filed Jan. 11 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 681 106 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As shown in the present disclosure further described computer software and programs for providing instruction for provisioning a user device. In one embodiment a computer program is stored on a computer readable medium for execution by a processing device. The computer program in this embodiment comprises logic that allows a first request to be received at a centralized location logic that allows a second request to be received at the centralized location and logic that allows a third request to be received at the centralized location. The program also includes logic configured to coordinate the first request second request and third request. The first request is associated with an electronic device the second request is associated with application s being assisted by the electronic device and the third request is associated with service s being assisted by the electronic device.

Upon receiving approval in block block is executed and orders for the user device applications and services are generated. At this point orders are routed to separate entities at the same time or substantially the same time in order to coordinate orders and responses to the orders thereby achieving procurement of the user device in a time efficient manner.

For some embodiments a first order is generated by the order generator in and sent as a device order block a second order is sent as an order for provisioning of the selected application s block and a third order is sent as an order for service s block . It should be recognized that generating orders associated with block may include the orders and as illustrated or may include in alternative embodiments additional or different types of orders depending on the particular application. If additional services are to be provisioned in addition to local and wide area services for instance then additional orders are sent to the appropriate entities to fulfill the orders. Furthermore the orders may be sent to one or more entities depending on the device service and application s selected.

In response to the various orders block which comprises blocks and includes the step of fulfilling the orders. It should be emphasized that the orders are fulfilled at substantially the same time or in any suitable sequence to properly provision the application s in a timely manner. In block the user device is programmed for the applications and services requested. In block the applications are provisioned based according to order . In block the services are provisioned according to order .

Once the user device has been provisioned for the selected applications and services have been ordered and provisioned the user device is shipped to the member which in turn initiates three additional steps . In block the member is provided a set of instructions user manual s quick start guides access to in person or on line training services etc. for the device s service s and application s that have been requested approved and fulfilled. In block any server side configuration within the organization required to enable or otherwise activate the provisioned device s service s and application s is performed. At this point the member can begin using the user device according to the application s and service s ordered. In block all accounting for the device s service s and application s is performed both within the organization and with the vendors involved in the process. Since no additional tasks are required for provisioning the user device at this point the business method provides the member with a fully provisioned device that can be used upon receipt instead of requiring additional and sometimes frustrating tasks and or delays as is common in conventional business methods.

It should be emphasized that the business method in includes steps or processes that can be modified without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. By centralizing the provisioning process for a wireless application the process can be simplified for procurers and other administrative staff members. In this regard by utilizing the method of members of businesses schools government agencies households and other entities can more easily provision wireless applications without the usual complexity common today. It should be recognized that each step or process of can be performed in a variety of ways. As non limiting examples 

In the embodiment of decision block includes determining if the request for selections is approved by a first approver. The first approver may be a person such as an administrator or an automatic response mechanism. If the request is not approved then flow goes to block which indicates to the procurer that the request has been rejected. Block includes determining whether or not the request is approved by a second approver. If not the procurer is notified that the request was rejected. Approval is checked for any number N of approvers. In this embodiment a decision block includes determining whether the request is approved by the last approver. If the request passes all levels of approval flow proceeds to the order generating step shown in .

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely examples of possible implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the principles of the present disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

