---

title: Method and apparatus for authorizing transactions using transaction phrases in a transaction authorization service
abstract: A transaction processing and authorization service. If a source entity does not respond to an authorization attempt via a communications channel, the service may generate a transaction phrase corresponding to the transaction and communicate the transaction phrase to the source entity. The transaction phrase may also be stored by the service and associated with the source entity's account and the particular transaction as initiated, and may be used to identify the transaction. After receiving the transaction phrase, the source entity may then, if desired, return the transaction phrase to the service. Upon receiving the transaction phrase from the source entity, the service may then contact the source entity via the communications channel to authorize the transaction. As an alternative, a source entity may submit a replay command to the service to replay any pending transactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08239326&OS=08239326&RS=08239326
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08239326
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070919
---
The Internet sometimes called simply the Net is a worldwide system of computer networks in which a client at any one computer may with permission obtain information from any other computer. The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide Web often abbreviated WWW which is commonly referred to as the web. The web may be defined as all the resources e.g. web pages and web sites and users on the Internet that use the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or variations thereof to access the resources. A web site is a related collection of web files that includes a beginning file called a home page. From the home page the user may navigate to other web pages on the web site. A web server program is a program that using the client server model and HTTP serves the files that form the web pages of a web site to the web users whose computers contain HTTP client programs e.g. web browsers that forward requests and display responses. A web server program may host one or more web sites.

Generally speaking a Web service interface may be configured to provide a standard cross platform API Application Programming Interface for communication between a client requesting some service to be performed and the service provider. In some embodiments a Web service interface may be configured to support the exchange of documents or messages including information describing the service request and response to that request. Such documents or messages may be exchanged using standardized Web protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example and may be formatted in a platform independent data format such as eXtensible Markup Language XML for example.

Mobile telephony has emerged alongside the Internet and the web and the two technologies have crossed over and merged to form what is essentially a global communications and information network. Cellular telephones for example have become digital and continue to become more sophisticated. Today many digital cell phones are capable of web access via their cellular service providers. Similarly many web applications are capable of telephone communications to conventional phones and to mobile telephones. In addition other technologies such as text messaging have emerged to enhance the capabilities and uses of mobile telephones and other personal electronic devices. Further other personal electronic devices such as Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may provide mobile telephone links to the web and user interfaces for accessing the web along with text messaging and other information and communications capabilities. Thus these devices are part of the emerging global communications and information network.

SMS Short Message Service is a service for sending messages of up to 160 characters 224 characters if using a 5 bit mode to mobile phones. SMS does not require the mobile phone to be active and within range. An SMS message may be held until the target phone is active and within range. SMS messages may be transmitted within the same cell or out of the cell to phones with roaming service capability. SMS messages may also be sent to digital phones from a web site or from one digital phone to another. An SMS gateway is a web site that accepts SMS messages for transmission to cell phones within the cell served by that gateway or that acts as an international gateway for users with roaming capability.

Various applications of the Internet and of the web involve electronic transactions such as funds transfers. These applications involve the transfer of funds from one entity to one or more other entities. These applications range from transferal of funds between financial institutions to electronic payment by individuals for purchases of goods or services from e commerce sites. With the merging of mobile telephony and other technologies and the web into an emerging global communications and information network these other technologies have become part of the transaction process for many such applications. Security when initiating and performing such transactions on the emerging global communications and information network is an ongoing concern. One area of concern is in authorizing transactions involving the electronic transferal of funds from one entity s account to one or more other entities.

While embodiments are described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments are not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit embodiments to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope as defined by the appended claims. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Various embodiments of a system and method for the authorization of transactions such as payments or money transfers are described. In embodiments a transaction authorization mechanism may be provided through which a transaction initiated via a first communications channel may be authorized through a second separate communications channel. Communications channels may include any methods or mechanisms for transmitting information between entities. Communications channels generally include protocols for information transfer e.g. Short Message Service SMS for text messaging and media over or through which information is transmitted according to the protocols and infrastructures for supporting the transmissions e.g. cellular telephone service providers . Further a communications channel may require devices that enable entities to communicate via the communications channel for example a mobile phone satellite phone cell phone conventional telephone computer system or Personal Digital Assistant PDA . Examples of communications channels include but are not limited to conventional land based telephone systems mobile or cellular telephone systems satellite telephone systems email instant messaging IM Voice over IP VoIP and text messaging. Note that separate communications channels may share one or more of protocol media infrastructure and enabling device. For example text messaging and cellular telephone systems may be enabled through the same device a cell phone and may transmit over the same medium.

Note that communications on communications channels over which voice messages may be transmitted e.g. conventional land based telephone systems mobile or cellular telephone systems satellite telephone systems VoIP etc. may collectively be referred to herein as voice communications and likewise the channels may be referred to collectively as voice communications channels . Further note that voice communications includes both live or real human voice communications and automated voice systems. Automated voice systems include automated systems in which synthesized or recorded voice messages are transmitted to communicate information. Note that some automated voice systems may transmit at least some synthesized or recorded voice messages in response to vocal input via voice recognition technology or other input into a communication device e.g. numeric key pad entries .

The transaction initiation message may include information that may be used to identify the source entity or may otherwise be identifiable as being from the particular entity. In some embodiments the transaction authorization service may identify the transaction initiation message as authentic as being from the source entity via one or more methods. For example in one embodiment caller ID may be used to identify the transaction initiation message as authentic. In one embodiment the transaction initiation message may include a security phrase or other identifier known only to the source entity and to the transaction authorization service. Other methods for identifying the transaction initiation message as authentic may be used in various embodiments. The transaction initiation message may also include but is not limited to information identifying the target entity or entities e.g. a telephone number account number email address alias etc. and an amount to be paid or transferred to the target entity s .

Before completing the transaction to the target entity the transaction authorization service authorizes the transaction with the source entity via communications through a second and separate communications channel for example a telephone call to a cell phone standard telephone PDA or other device capable of telephone communications via a text message to a text message capable device in possession of the source entity or through some other communications channel. Note that the initiation of the transaction and the authorization of the transaction may be but are not necessarily performed by the source entity using the same device e.g. a cell phone but that two different communications channels are used.

The communication e.g. a message or authorization request from the transaction authorization service via the separate communications channel may include an indication that the message is authentic e.g. is from the transaction authorization service . The source entity may authorize the transaction by providing a code or identifier associated with the source entity and known by the transaction authorization service via the second communications channel in response to the authorization request for example by entering a Personal Identification Number PIN or other identifier on the keypad of a cell phone or other device on which the authorization message was received. After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided identifier against an identifier provided by the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service . The authorization through the separate communications channel serves to securely verify that the transaction was initiated and is authorized by the source entity .

Note that in various embodiments the identifier or code entered or otherwise provided by the source entity to authorize a transaction may be a PIN number e.g. a 4 digit numeric code some other type of alphanumeric code a password a pass phrase a response to a personal question e.g. What is your mother s maiden name or any other form of identifier that can be transmitted over a communications channel. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any of a variety of types of identifiers may be used to identify a source entity. Further note that other forms of identification are possible and contemplated. As an example some embodiments using voice communications as the separate communications channel to authenticate transactions may use voice recognition in authenticating the transactions. In these embodiments the transaction authorization service may analyze the source entity s voice input to determine if the source entity is recognized and may then if recognized ask a question along the lines of Do you authorize this transaction The source entity may then respond Yes or No to authorize or reject the transaction.

After the transaction has been authorized through the second communications channel the transaction authorization service may notify the target entity of the transaction. The notification message may include an indication that the notification message is authentic e.g. is from the transaction authorization service . The target entity may then complete the transaction with the transaction authorization service for example by communicating with the transaction authorization service to receive a payment or a transferal of funds initiated by the first entity .

Note that the transaction authorization service may be used to perform the actual funds transfer for the transaction and thus may provide accounts for funds transfer to various entities which may include either one or both of source entity and target entity or alternatively the transaction authorization service may serve as an authorization service for one or more other services that perform the actual funds transfer.

Further note that the source entity and or the target entity may represent individuals or corporate entities such as organizations businesses retail businesses industrial enterprises e commerce businesses governmental entities or in general any two entities between which a transaction may take place. Further note that the transaction may be a payment for goods or services a money or other commodity transfer a payment or transfer for other purposes e.g. for tax purposes or in general any transaction involving the transferal of a commodity from one entity to another. Further note that embodiments may be used for other purposes than for authorization of transfers of commodities for example for authorizing the scheduling allocation or transferal of resources for scheduling and responding to meetings etc.

Using a second separate communications channel to authorize a transaction initiated via a first communications channel may help to insure the security of the transaction and of the source entity s account. For example if someone is somehow eavesdropping on the first communications channel used to initiate the transaction authorizing the transaction through a second separate communications channel may help to prevent that person from interfering with the transaction or from gaining additional information e.g. a PIN number or other identifier that might allow that person access to the source entity s account. In addition in embodiments the second communications channel may be specified by a telephone number alias or other type of address that is assigned to a particular physical device for example a conventional phone a cell phone or other personal electronic device. This device is or should be associated with and in the possession of the source entity for example the source entity s home phone personal cell phone or other personal electronic device. This may help to provide two form factor security for transactions. Not only must the source entity possess some knowledge e.g. a PIN number or other identifier that is necessary to authorize transactions but the source entity must also be in possession of the device associated with the second communications channel e.g. a particular cell phone associated with a cell phone number to authorize transactions. To authorize a transaction an entity must be in possession of the mechanism to participate on the second communication channel as well as the PIN number or other identifier used in authorizing the transaction.

Registering with transaction authorization service may include source entity providing personal information e.g. one or more of name residence mailing address email address credit card type and number etc. . In addition source entity may provide information for use in authorizing transactions. Information provided by source entity for use in authorizing transactions may include one or more of a phone number phrase personal password and or PIN number or other type of identifier. Included in this information is a specification by source entity of a separate communications channel to be used in authorizing transactions. For example in one embodiment source entity may be required to enter a phone number representing a mobile phone cell phone or other device capable of cell telephone communications to be used as communications device for authorizing transactions as represented in .

In one embodiment a security phrase may be provided by entity during the registration process that is to be used in verifying the authenticity of messages received by entity as originating from transaction authorization service . The phrase may for example be a short English language phrase such as The big brown dog note however that embodiments may not restrict the content or language of the phrase. If a message received by entity includes the phrase known only to entity and transaction authorization service then entity may feel secure that the message is from transaction authorization service . Note that the phrase may also be used to identify messages sent from entity to transaction authorization service as being authentic messages from entity . Further note that in one embodiment rather than entity specifying the phrase a phrase may be provided to entity by transaction authorization service . Further note that a security phrase associated with target entity may also be used for similar purposes in communications between transaction authorization service and target entity . Note that other embodiments may not use a security phrase as described above.

In one embodiment in addition to the information provided by source entity during registration transaction authorization service may provide source entity with information for use in authorizing transactions. For example in one embodiment rather than a registrant providing a PIN number transaction authorization service may specify a PIN number or other type of identifier for source entity to use in authorizing transactions.

Note that in one embodiment transaction authorization service may provide a mechanism or mechanisms for entity to edit or change any information entered during the registration process at a later time if necessary or desired. For example entity may change addresses or phone numbers or passwords or the security phrase.

In one embodiment the process of setting up an account with transaction authorization service may include transferring funds from a financial institution e.g. a bank or credit card provider into a funds account maintained by the entity that provides the transaction authorization service referred to herein as the transaction authorization service provider . Note that in another embodiment source entity may maintain funds in another account without transferring funds into a funds account maintained by the transaction authorization service provider. In this embodiment source entity may use transaction authorization service to authorize transactions involving funds transfers from the separately maintained funds account.

In one implementation entity may pay a fee to the transaction authorization service provider for using transaction authorization service for example a one time yearly or monthly fee or alternatively the transaction authorization service provider may charge source entity and or target entity a transaction fee per each transaction. As another alternative transaction authorization service may be provided for use at no charge.

In one embodiment transaction authorization service may provide registered entity with a secure web page or pages to which entity may log on and through which the entity may manage the account. For example transaction authorization service may provide a user interface through which entity may deposit funds into the account for example via an electronic bank transfer. Transaction authorization service may also provide a user interface whereby entity may withdraw funds from the account for example via an electronic transfer from the account to a bank account or alternatively by mailed check. Transaction authorization service may also provide a user interface whereby entity may review previous transactions view the status of pending transactions determine account balances and perform various other activities related to the entity s account.

After registering with transaction authorization service and transferring funds into a funds account maintained by the transaction authorization service provider if necessary source entity may access transaction authorization service to initiate a transaction with a target entity . This access may be via communications device over the first communications channel or alternatively via a different communications channel and or via a different communications device.

Transaction authorization service may provide one or more mechanisms or user interfaces through which entity may initiate a transaction e.g. a transaction to send money to a specified entity or entities such as target entity . In one embodiment transaction authorization service may provide a user interface on a secure web page or pages to which entity may log on and through which entity may initiate a transaction for example a payment or funds transfer to target entity .

In one embodiment the transaction authorization mechanism may allow users e.g. entity to enter text message commands on a communications device e.g. a cell phone that is text message capable and to transmit the commands to transaction authorization service at a specified address. In one embodiment SMS Short Message Service may be used to provide text messaging capabilities. The following is an exemplary format for such a command which is not intended to be limiting 

In the above exemplary command represents the monetary amount to be paid and represents a phone number of the payee e.g. target entity . Note that text message commands to initiate other types of transactions or to initiate other functions of the transaction authorization service may also be provided by transaction authorization service . In addition in source entity may enter such a command on a communications device to initiate a transaction e.g. a payment with target entity . Source entity may specify an amount to be paid and a phone number associated with target entity . Note that the communications device used to initiate the command may be communications device or another communications device. In one embodiment communications device which is to be used to authorize transactions and for which a phone number was entered during the registration process may also be used to initiate a transaction over a first communications channel.

Once transaction authorization service receives the transaction command via a first communications channel the service may contact source entity for example at a phone number specified by the source entity during the registration process i.e. over the second communications channel as illustrated in . The phone number may for example be the number of a land based phone cell phone or other phone capable device in the possession of source entity . In communications device is a device e.g. a mobile phone cell phone or standard land based telephone to which is assigned the specified phone number. In one embodiment the contact may include transmitting a text message requesting that entity authorize the initiated transaction. Note that other embodiments may initiate a cell or standard telephone call with either human or automated voice messages for the authorization request message. In one embodiment the authorization request message may include a security phrase either entered by or provided to entity during registration to indicate that the message is really from transaction authorization service .

In one embodiment to authorize the transaction entity may enter a PIN number or other identification code on communications device in response to the authorization request message received from transaction authorization service on communications device via the second communications channel. For example if entity has selected a PIN number of 3419 then entity may enter the PIN number 3419 in one embodiment followed by a sign on the keypad of communications device . One embodiment may allow entity to enter a different code or command to cancel or deny the transaction if desired. Note that in one embodiment the PIN number or other identifier may need to be entered to verify the cancellation or denial. The response of entity is then communicated to transaction authorization service via the second communications channel. After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided identifier against an identifier provided by the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service .

In some embodiments alternative methods of contacting the source entity to authorize a transaction may be used. For example transaction authorization service may contact source entity via some other mechanism for example by email requesting authorization of the transaction. Source entity may then contact transaction authorization service via the second communications channel using communications device to authorize or deny the transaction in so doing providing the PIN number or other identification code via communications device to authorize the transaction or cancel deny the transaction.

If source entity authorizes the transaction via the second communications channel transaction authorization service may then contact the target entity of the transaction to inform the target entity of the transaction for example using a phone number provided by source entity in the message initiating the transaction as previously described. The phone number may for example be a phone number assigned to communications device for example a cell phone in the possession of target entity . In one embodiment the message may be sent as a text message for example of the following exemplary format which is not intended to be limiting 

In one embodiment SMS may be used to send the text message. The message may include additional information such as information identifying the transaction authorization service and instruction describing a method or methods for the target entity to receive the payment. For example the message may also indicate something along the lines of 

Further note that other methods or mechanisms than text messages via device may be used to inform target entity of the transaction in some embodiments for example a human or automated voice message an email message and or a mailed letter may be used instead of or as an alternative to a text message.

Note that in one embodiment instead of or as an alternative to transaction authorization service contacting target entity to inform entity of the transaction source entity may contact target entity to inform entity of the transaction. For example in one embodiment if target entity is not a registered user of transaction authorization service source entity may contact target entity to inform the entity that a payment has been made via transaction authorization service .

In one embodiment to complete the transaction for example to receive the money paid by source entity target entity may be required to log on to the web site associated with transaction authorization service . In one embodiment if target entity does not already have an account with transaction authorization service target entity may be required to register and set up an account with transaction authorization service before receiving the payment. In this embodiment transaction authorization service may provide a service authorization of transactions and funds transfers that is available only to registered users whether the user is a source or target entity. In other embodiments target entities may not be required to register with transaction authorization service to receive funds from transactions initiated and authorized by source entities.

Note that if target entity already has an account with transaction authorization service then the transfer of funds to the target entity s account from the source entity s account may be performed automatically without requiring any further action by target entity . In this case a message from transaction authorization service to target entity as described above may simply inform the target entity of the transaction without requiring any further action by target entity to obtain the funds.

In some embodiments instead of or as an alternative to transferring funds from the source entity s account with transaction authorization service to the target entity s account with transaction authorization service some other method of transferring the funds to the target entity may be used. For example the funds may be electronically transferred to a bank account as specified by target entity or alternatively a check may be cut and sent to target entity . In one embodiment transaction authorization service may provide user interface elements whereby target entity may upon contacting transaction authorization service to complete the transaction select from among two or more methods to receive the payment from source entity .

In one embodiment that uses text messaging as the separate communications channel to authenticate transactions transaction authorization service may record the authenticating text messages. The stored text messages may then be used for example as a record of activity for the source entity s account. In one embodiment for example the transaction authorization service may provide an interface via which source entity may view a history of authenticating text messages. Note that a similar method of recordation may be used for embodiments that use other communications channels to authenticate transactions. Further note that in one embodiment transaction authorization service may periodically or aperiodically generate reports for accounts including transaction histories and may provide those reports to source entities via one or more mechanisms.

As another example the target entity may be a secured web site or other secured application that requires the source entity to log into an account and the transaction may be a login attempt. In this example the transaction authorization service may be used to authorize the login with the source entity via a separate communications channel. Note that this exemplary use for transaction authorization service provides added security in that even if a source entity s account information and password for the secured application are stolen or otherwise obtained by a third party the third party would not be able to access the account without validated authorization by the source entity through the separate communications channel and the transaction authorization service . This would require either that the third party be in possession of the communications device e.g. a cell phone associated with the separate communications channel e.g. a cell phone number and the PIN or other identifier that has to be entered to authorize the transaction or that the source entity is made aware of and authorizes the access of the account by the third party.

The initiation of the transaction with target entity by source entity may be performed via any of a number of communications channels. For example the initiation of the transaction may be communicated via a text message from source entity to target entity via communications over a voice communications channel e.g. a phone call via an email message etc. In one embodiment as mentioned above the initiation of the transaction may be performed via a Web interface to the target entity for example by source entity selecting an item for purchase from a page of an e commerce web site.

When entity initiates a transaction with target entity e.g. initiates a purchase from an e commerce web site target entity communicates with transaction authorization service to communicate the transaction and initiate the actual funds transfer. The communication may include but is not limited to information identifying the target entity information identifying the source entity and the amount to be transferred to target entity . The communications may also include other information such as information identifying a communications channel to be used to authorize the transaction with the source entity e.g. a phone number . In one embodiment transaction authorization service may be implemented as a web service that provides a web service interface through which target entity e.g. an e commerce web site application may communicate with transaction authorization service to initiate a transaction.

Once transaction authorization service receives the communication from target entity initiating a funds transfer the service may contact source entity for example at a phone number or other communications channel specified by the source entity during the registration process i.e. over the second communications channel as illustrated in or alternatively via a communications channel indicated in the communications received from target entity . The phone number may for example be the number of a land based phone cell phone or other phone capable device in the possession of source entity . In one embodiment the contact may include transmitting a text message requesting that entity authorize the initiated transaction. Note that other embodiments may initiate a cell or standard telephone call with either human or automated voice messages for the authorization request message. In one embodiment the authorization request message may include a security phrase either entered by or provided to entity during registration to indicate that the message is really from transaction authorization service .

In one embodiment to authorize the transaction entity may enter a PIN number or other identification code on a communications device e.g. a land based phone or cell phone in response to the authorization request message received from transaction authorization service via the second communications channel. In one embodiment entity may enter a different code or command to cancel or deny the transaction if desired. Note that in one embodiment the PIN number or other identifier may need to be entered to verify the cancellation or denial. The response of entity is then communicated to transaction authorization service via the second communications channel. After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided identifier against an identifier provided by the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service .

In some embodiments alternative methods of contacting the source entity to authorize a transaction may be used. For example transaction authorization service may contact source entity via some other mechanism for example by email requesting authorization of the transaction. Source entity may then contact transaction authorization service via the second communications channel and communications device to authorize or deny the transaction in so doing providing the PIN number or other identification code via the communications device to authorize the transaction or cancel deny the transaction.

If source entity authorizes the transaction via the second communications channel and communications device then transaction authorization service may complete the transaction with target entity for example by electronically transferring funds from the source entity s account to an account specified by target entity . Note that the target entity s account may be an account with the transaction authorization service or alternatively an account with a different entity such as a bank. Note that target entity may not complete the transaction with source entity e.g. may not OK a purchase order for processing until the transaction with transaction authorization service is completed.

If the transaction was successfully completed by transaction authorization service transaction authorization service may communicate with target entity to indicate the successful completion of the transaction. In one embodiment the communications from transaction authorization service to target entity may include other information relevant to the source entity and the transaction such as a shipping address for source entity . If the transaction was not authorized by source entity or the authorization was determined to be invalid by transaction authorization service transaction authorization service may communicate with target entity to indicate that the transaction was not completed and may include in the communication information describing the reason.

Target entity may register with transaction authorization service and may thus have an account with transaction authorization service . Source entity may also have an account with transaction authorization service . Target entity may communicate with transaction authorization service to initiate a transaction with source entity over a communications channel e.g. a voice message over a telephone system a text message an email etc. . The communication may include but is not limited to information identifying the source entity and an amount that the target entity is requesting to be transferred to the target entity by the source entity . The information identifying the source entity may also include information identifying a communications channel to be used to contact the source entity to authorize the transaction.

Once transaction authorization service receives the communication from target entity initiating a transaction the service may contact source entity for example at a phone number or other communications channel specified by the source entity during the registration process or alternatively via a communications channel indicated in the communications received from target entity . The phone number may for example be the number of a land based phone cell phone or other phone capable device in the possession of source entity . In one embodiment the contact may include transmitting a text message requesting that entity authorize the initiated transaction. Note that other embodiments may initiate a cell or standard telephone call with either human or automated voice messages for the authorization request message. In one embodiment the authorization request message may include a security phrase either entered by or provided to source entity during registration to indicate that the message is from transaction authorization service .

In one embodiment to authorize the transaction entity may enter a PIN number or other identification code on a communications device e.g. a land based phone or cell phone in response to the authorization request message received from transaction authorization service via the second communications channel. In one embodiment entity may enter a different code or command to deny the transaction if desired. Note that in one embodiment the PIN number or other identifier may need to be entered to verify the cancellation or denial. The response of entity is then communicated to transaction authorization service via the second communications channel. After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided identifier against an identifier provided by the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service .

In some embodiments alternative methods of contacting the source entity to authorize a transaction may be used. For example transaction authorization service may contact source entity via some other mechanism for example by email requesting authorization of the transaction. Source entity may then contact transaction authorization service via a second separate communications channel and communications device to authorize or deny the transaction in so doing providing the PIN number or other identification code via the communications device to authorize the transaction or deny the transaction.

If source entity authorizes the transaction then transaction authorization service may complete the transaction with target entity for example by electronically transferring funds from the source entity s account to an account specified by target entity . Note that the target entity s account may be an account with the transaction authorization service or alternatively an account with a different entity such as a bank.

If the transaction was successfully completed by transaction authorization service transaction authorization service may communicate with target entity to indicate the successful completion of the transaction. If the transaction was not authorized by source entity or the authorization was determined to be invalid by transaction authorization service transaction authorization service may communicate with target entity to indicate that the transaction was not completed and may include in the communication information describing the reason.

The embodiment illustrated in may be used for example to implement a periodic or aperiodic payment system in which the payer the source entity authorizes each payment to the payee the target entity . For example target entity may be a merchant or other enterprise and source entity may be a customer of the enterprise that purchases goods or services from the enterprise. The source entity and target entity may agree that payments for the goods or services are to be made on a periodic schedule e.g. monthly . Each period target entity may initiate a transaction by communicating with transaction authorization service as described above. Before completing the transaction transaction authorization service first contacts source entity on a separate communications channel to authorize or deny the transaction as described above. Note that in addition to providing a secure method for authorizing payments from an account this gives the source entity control over whether target entity is paid for example in cases of disputes such as the target entity not performing a service as stipulated in a contract.

As another example source entity may have an account with transaction authorization service . Target entity may be an entity to which source entity may wish to provide funds as needed or desired by target entity . To obtain funds from target entity source entity initiates a transaction with transaction authorization service . Before completing the transaction transaction authorization service first contacts source entity on a separate communications channel to authorize or deny the transaction as described above. For example parents source entity may have an account to provide funds to a college student target entity . However rather than letting the college student obtain funds without control transaction authorization service allows the parents to authorize each transaction.

Note that in one embodiment transaction authorization service may be implemented as component of an e commerce web site or other web application s software. In this embodiment transaction authorization service may be used by other components of the web application to authorize transactions. Further note that in one embodiment transaction authorization service as represented in any of the Figures may be implemented as a web service that provides a web services interface to web applications. In this embodiment various web applications associated with target and or source entities may be programmed to access the transaction authorization service via the web services interface to utilize the transaction authorization service to initiate and or authorize transactions as illustrated in the Figures and described herein. Further note that the web services interface may act as a communications channel in various embodiments. As an example a source entity may communicate with transaction authorization service via a web services interface and according to a web services interface protocol to initiate a transaction. Transaction authorization service may then communicate with source entity via a second separate communications channel e.g. via a phone call to a cell phone or via text messaging to authenticate the transaction. As another example source entity may communicate with target entity via a communications channel e.g. text messaging or via a web page to purchase an item or service. Target entity may then communicate with transaction authorization service via a web services interface to initiate a transaction with source entity . Transaction authorization service may then communicate with source entity through a separate communications channel e.g. through a call to a cellular telephone associated with the source entity to authorize the transaction. Once authorized the transaction authorization service may communicate with target entity via the web services interface to complete the transaction.

The above drawings and descriptions thereof generally describe the transaction authorization mechanism including the notion of two communications channels a first communications channel used to initiate a transaction and a second communications channel used to authorize the transaction for example see . As previously described various embodiments may use different communications mechanisms for example voice communications e.g. conventional telephone systems mobile cellular phone systems etc. text messaging systems e.g. SMS or other communications systems or mechanisms as communications channels.

In some embodiments voice or telephone systems may be used as the second separate communications channel for authorizing transactions. In these embodiments a transaction may for example be initiated by a source entity via a first communications channel which may for example be one of a voice communication channel e.g. telephone text messaging email or a web page user interface. Note that other communications channels may be used to initiate a transaction. The transaction may then be authorized via the second communications channel a voice or telephone channel such a conventional telephone cell telephone VoIP etc. . The authorization message may for example be directed to a conventional or cellular telephone associated with a phone number provided by the source entity . The transaction authorization service may call the telephone number identify the message as authentic for example via a security phrase describe the transaction and request authorization. Note that the telephone call may be automated or initiated by a human and the communications may be via a live human voice or via an automated message. The source entity may then enter or otherwise provide a PIN number or other identifier to authorize the transaction. Note that in some embodiments the source entity may reply to the authorization message at a later time and or through some other communications channel e.g. through a text message or email message .

In other embodiments text messaging systems may be used as the second separate communications channel. An exemplary text messaging system that may be used is SMS Short Message Service . In these embodiments a transaction may for example be initiated by a source entity via a first communications channel which may for example be one of a voice communication channel e.g. telephone text messaging email or a web page user interface. Note that other communications channels may be used to initiate a transaction. The transaction may then be authorized via the second communications channel text messaging . The authorization text message may be directed to a text message capable device associated with a phone number alias or other identifier or address provided by the source entity . The transaction authorization service may send the text message to the provided phone number alias or other identifier. The text message may include information that identifies the message as authentic for example a security phrase may include information identifying the transaction and may request authorization of the transaction. The source entity may then reply to the authorization request text message with a text message including a PIN number or other identifier to authorize the transaction. Note that in some embodiments the source entity may reply to the authorization text message at a later time and or through some other communications channel e.g. through a telephone call or email message .

As described above for in one embodiment instead of the source entity communicating directly with transaction authorization service to initiate a transaction source entity may communicate directly with target entity to initiate the transaction target entity may communicate the transaction to transaction authorization service and transaction authorization service may authenticate the transaction with source entity . For example target entity may be an e commerce web site that allows source entity to use transaction authorization service as a payment method for transactions e.g. purchases made via the site. Various embodiments may use different communications mechanisms for example voice communications e.g. conventional telephone systems mobile cellular phone systems etc. text messaging systems e.g. SMS a web services interface or one or more of other communications systems or mechanisms as communications channels for communications between source entity and target entity between target entity and transaction authorization service and between transaction authorization service and source entity .

As indicated at in response to receiving a valid transaction initiation message the transaction authorization service may confirm the transaction with the source entity via a second communications channel. As previously described various embodiments may use different communications mechanisms for example conventional telephone systems mobile cellular phone systems and text messaging systems e.g. SMS as the second communications channel. The transaction authorization service may initiate a communications with a device associated with the second communications channel e.g. a conventional telephone a cell phone a PDA etc. that is in the possession of the source entity. The communications may include information identifying the message as authentic for example a security phrase may identify the transaction and may request authorization of the transaction. To authorize the transaction the source entity may provide a PIN number or other identifier via the second communications channel in response to the communications. Note that in some embodiments the source entity may reply to the authorization text message at a later time and or through some other communications channel e.g. through a text message or email message . Further note that embodiments may provide a mechanism or mechanisms whereby the source entity may cancel or deny the transaction. After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided identifier against an identifier provided by the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service.

As indicated at after the transaction has been authorized with the source entity via the second communications channel the transaction authorization service and or the source entity may contact the target entity to inform the target entity of the transaction. This contact may inform the target entity as to how to obtain the funds indicated by the transaction. As indicated at the target entity may then complete the transaction with the transaction authorization service. In one embodiment if not already registered the target entity may be required to register with the transaction authorization service to obtain an account in order to obtain the funds. Note that in one embodiment a temporary account may be created to hold the funds until the target entity registers. If the target entity already has an account with the transaction authorization service the transaction may be automatically performed by transferring funds from the source entity s account into the target entity s account. In this case the contact may be to inform the target entity that the transaction has been made and that the funds are available in the target entity s account. In some embodiments other methods for obtaining the funds than registering with the transaction authorization service may be provided. For example a check for the funds may be cut and mailed to the target entity or the funds may be electronically transferred to another account e.g. a bank account at the request of the target entity.

As indicated at the target entity communicates the transaction to the transaction authorization service to initiate the funds transfer. The communication may include but is not limited to information identifying the target entity e.g. the unique identifier information identifying the source entity and the amount to be transferred to the target entity. The communications may also include other information such as information identifying a communications channel to be used to authorize the transaction with the source entity e.g. a phone number . In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may be implemented as a web service that provides a web service interface through which the target entity e.g. an e commerce web site application may communicate with the transaction authorization service to initiate transactions.

As indicated at the transaction authorization service confirms or authorizes the transaction with the source entity via a specified communications channel for example at a phone number specified by the source entity during the registration process with the transaction authorization service. The phone number may for example be the number of a land based phone cell phone or other phone capable device in the possession of the source entity. In one embodiment the contact may include transmitting a text message requesting that the source entity authorize the initiated transaction. Note that other embodiments may initiate a cell or standard telephone call with either human or automated voice messages for the authorization request message. In one embodiment the authorization request message may include a security phrase either entered by or provided to entity during registration to indicate that the message is from transaction authorization service.

In one embodiment to authorize the transaction the source entity may enter a PIN number or other identification code on a communications device e.g. a land based phone or cell phone in response to the authorization request message received from the transaction authorization service over the specified communications channel. In one embodiment the source entity may enter a different code or command to cancel or deny the transaction if desired. After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service.

As indicated at if the transaction is authorized by the source entity and the authorization is determined to be valid the transaction authorization service completes the transaction with the target entity. For example the transaction authorization service may complete the transaction by electronically transferring funds from the source entity s account to an account specified by the target entity. Note that the target entity s account may be an account with the transaction authorization service or alternatively an account with a different entity such as a bank. Alternative methods of completing the transaction with the target entity may be used for example cutting a check to be sent to the target entity.

If the transaction was successfully completed by the transaction authorization service the transaction authorization service may communicate with the target entity to indicate the successful completion of the transaction. In one embodiment the communications from the transaction authorization service to the target entity may include other information relevant to the source entity and the transaction such as a shipping address for the source entity. If the transaction was not authorized by the source entity or the authorization was determined to be invalid the transaction authorization service may communicate with the target entity to indicate that the transaction was not completed and may include in the communication information describing the reason.

As indicated at a target entity initiates a transaction with a source entity via a communications channel to a transaction authorization service. This communication may be via a voice message a text message an email or via any other communications channel. The communication may include but is not limited to information identifying the source entity and an amount that the target entity is requesting to be transferred to the target entity by the source entity. The information identifying the source entity may also include information identifying a communications channel to be used to contact the source entity to authorize the transaction.

Once the transaction authorization service receives the communication from the target entity initiating a transaction the transaction authorization service communicates with the source entity via a communications channel to authorize or deny the transaction as indicated at . For example the transaction authorization service may contact the source entity at a phone number or via another communications channel as specified by the source entity during a registration process with the transaction authorization service or alternatively via a communications channel indicated in the communications received from the target entity. The phone number may for example be the number of a land based phone cell phone or other phone capable device in the possession of the source entity. In one embodiment the contact may include transmitting a text message requesting that the source entity authorize the initiated transaction. Note that other embodiments may initiate a cell or standard telephone call with either human or automated voice messages for the authorization request message. In one embodiment the authorization request message may include a security phrase either entered by or provided to the source entity during registration to indicate that the message is from the transaction authorization service.

In one embodiment to authorize the transaction source entity may enter a PIN number or other identification code on a communications device e.g. a land based phone or cell phone in response to the authorization request message received from the transaction authorization service via the communications channel. In one embodiment the source entity may enter a different code or command to deny the transaction if desired. Note that in one embodiment the PIN number or other identifier may need to be entered to verify the cancellation or denial. The response of source entity is then communicated to the transaction authorization service via the communications channel. After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service.

In some embodiments alternative methods of contacting the source entity to authorize a transaction may be used. For example the transaction authorization service may contact the source entity via email requesting authorization of the transaction. The source entity may then contact the transaction authorization service via a second separate communications channel and communications device e.g. a cell phone to authorize or deny the transaction in so doing providing the PIN number or other identification code via the communications device to authorize the transaction or deny the transaction.

If at the transaction is authorized and the authorization is determined to be valid the transaction authorization service completes the transaction with the target entity as indicated at . If at the transaction is not authorized or the authorization is determined to be invalid the transaction authorization service notifies the target entity as indicated at .

In embodiments of a system and method for the authorization of transactions as described above a transaction authorization mechanism or service may be provided through which a transaction initiated via a first communications channel may be authorized through a second separate communications channel. In some embodiments users of the transaction authorization mechanism or service may include a user security phrase or other user identifier in at least some commands and messages sent by the users to the transaction authorization service. The user security phrase or other user identifier may be used by the transaction authorization service to authenticate the commands messages as being from the associated user. In one embodiment text messaging may be used to communicate commands and messages from entities the users to the transaction authorization service. In this embodiment the user security phrases may be included inline in the text message commands or messages and used to authenticate that a text message is from a particular user by verifying that the message includes the user security phrase associated with the user.

There may be several functions that a user may perform via the transaction authorization service using a communications or other type of device such as a cell phone. Thus if a third party possibly malevolent acquires access to a user s cell phone or other device that the user has specified as a device for accessing the transaction authorization service specifically for initiating commands the third party could possibly generate payment requests access information about the user s account and so on. Contact by the transaction authorization service via a second communications channel is to authorize payments not to initiate commands. Without the PIN or other identifier and without access to the second communications channel the third party could not authorize payments. However the third party could still possibly find out account information initiate payment commands and so on. The use of a user security phrase for commands or messages sent from a user to the transaction authorization service helps to protect the user from unauthorized access including malevolent access by a third party. The third party would also need the correct user security phrase to correctly message the transaction authorization service for example to initiate pay transactions or to initiate other transactions including transactions that allow the access of account information. If a message does not include the correct user security phrase the transaction authorization service may ignore or otherwise handle the message to protect and possibly inform the user associated with the account.

For example a source entity may send a pay command to the transaction authorization service including a user security phrase. The following is an exemplary format for a pay command including a user security phrase which is not intended to be limiting 

In the above exemplary pay command represents the monetary amount to be paid and represents a phone number of the payee e.g. target entity . represents a user security phrase known to the source entity user1 and to the transaction service that the transaction service may use to identify the command as being from the source entity. If the pay command does not include the user1 security phrase or if the user security phrase is incorrect the pay command is ignored or otherwise handled by the transaction service the pay command is not processed and the user may not be contacted via the second communications channel to authorize the command. In some embodiments commands to initiate other types of transactions or to initiate other functions of the transaction authorization service such as accessing and viewing account information may also be provided by transaction authorization service and a user security phrase may be included in one or more of the commands by the user for identification purposes if the commands do not include the user security phrase or the user security phrase is not correct then the commands may be ignored or otherwise handled to protect and possibly inform the user.

User security phrases may be specified by or provided to any user of the transaction authorization service and as indicated above may be included in various commands or messages from users to identify the messages as being initiated by the user associated with the user security phrase. For example a target entity that is registered with the transaction authorization service may include a user security phrase that identifies the target entity in a response message to the transaction authorization service to accept a payment initiated by a source or the target entity or in a request payment message to request a payment from a source entity. As another example the transaction authorization service may provide one or more commands that allow users to access user account information including but not limited to personal information information about funds accounts historical transaction information and information about the status of current pending transactions. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may require the inclusion of user security phrases in messages specifying commands to access at least a portion of the user account information.

The user security phrase may be a word a number a phrase including two or more words a PIN an alphanumeric string or in general any sequence of characters available on the communications channel that are known to the initiator the user and the transaction authorization service. The user security phrase may be specified or selected by the user or may be assigned to the user by the transaction authorization service. However for security purposes the user security phrase may be required to be different than the PIN code or other identifier used in authorizing transactions via a second communications channel as previously described. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may require that the user security phrase and the PIN or other identifier if specified or selected by the user are different. By requiring that the two be different a layer of security is added. For example a third party acquiring one or the other would not allow the third party full access to a user s account if the third part also had access to the required physical device s to access the associated user s account e.g. the user s cell phone or other device . The user and the transaction authorization service both know the user security phrase and the PIN or other identifier. The user security phrase is used to authenticate messages commands as being from a user. The PIN or other identifier is used by the source entity to authorize initiated transactions via the second communications channel when contacted by the transaction authorization service on the second communications channel.

In one embodiment users may be required to include user security phrases in commands or messages to the transaction service. In this embodiment every user of the transaction authorization service may be required to specify or select or may be automatically assigned a user security phrase. In another embodiment the use of user security phrases in commands or messages may be provided as an option to the users of the transaction authorization service. In this embodiment a user may choose not to use a user security phrase. In one embodiment the user for example through an account registration interface and or account management interface of the transaction authorization service may be allowed to select whether the user wants to use a user security phrase. If the user selects to use a user security phrase then at least some commands or messages from the user may be required to include the specified selected or assigned user security phrase. In one embodiment user security phrases may be required in some commands or messages and not required for other commands and messages. In one embodiment the user for example through an account management interface of the transaction authorization service may be allowed to change a previously specified selected or assigned user security phrase or otherwise change the user s account configuration regarding the use of the user security phrase.

Some embodiments may provide users with two or more user security phrases. For example in one embodiment a user may specify select or be assigned one user security phrase for transactions less than a certain amount e.g. 20 and another different user security phrase for transactions greater than or equal to the amount e.g. 20 . As another example in one embodiment a user may specify select or be assigned one user security phrase for use in all pay and request payment commands and another different user security phrase for other commands. Some embodiments may provide users with a user security phrase for only certain commands. For example in one embodiment a user security phrase may only be required for transactions over a specified amount. In one embodiment for example through an account registration interface and or account management interface of the transaction authorization service a user may customize the configuration of the use of user security phrases for the user s personal account. The above examples provide some indications as to the possible ways that a user may be allowed to customize the usage of user security phrases for the user s personal account with the transaction authorization service.

The transaction initiation message transaction may include a user security phrase or other identifier known only to the source entity and to the transaction authorization service to identify the message as being from the source entity . Note that in some embodiments the transaction authorization service may identify the transaction initiation message as authentic as being from the source entity via one or more other methods in addition to the user security phrase. For example in one embodiment caller ID may be used in addition to the user security phrase to identify the transaction initiation message as authentic. Other methods for identifying the transaction initiation message as authentic may be used in various embodiments. The transaction initiation message may also include but is not limited to information identifying the target entity or entities e.g. a telephone number account number email address alias etc. and an amount to be paid or transferred to the target entity s .

Upon receiving the transaction the transaction authorization service parses the message to find the user security phrase. The transaction authorization service may verify that the user security phrase if provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided user security phrase against a user security phrase specified or selected by the source entity or assigned to the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the transaction does not include the user security phrase or the user security phrase is incorrect the transaction authorization service may ignore the transaction or otherwise handle the transaction to protect the source entity . In one embodiment if the transaction includes an error in the user security phrase or other content then the transaction authorization service may contact the source entity to request verification corrections to the transaction initiation message as described below in reference to B and .

If the transaction includes the correct user security phrase before completing the transaction to the target entity the transaction authorization service authorizes the transaction with the source entity via communications through a second and separate communications channel for example a telephone call to a cell phone standard telephone PDA or other device capable of telephone communications via a text message to a text message capable device in possession of the source entity or through some other communications channel. Note that the initiation of the transaction and the authorization of the transaction may be but are not necessarily performed by the source entity using the same device e.g. a cell phone but that two different communications channels are used.

The communication e.g. a message or authorization request from the transaction authorization service via the separate communications channel may include an indication that the message is authentic e.g. is from the transaction authorization service . In one embodiment the indication may be a code phrase or other identifier known only to the source entity and the transaction authorization service that identifies the transaction authorization service to the source entity and may be referred to as a service security phrase. In one embodiment this code phrase or other identifier the service security phrase is different than the user security phrase used to authenticate the transaction message as being from the source entity . The source entity may authorize the transaction by providing a code or identifier associated with the source entity and known by the transaction authorization service via the second communications channel in response to the authorization request for example by entering a Personal Identification Number PIN or other identifier on the keypad of a cell phone or other device on which the authorization message was received. Note that the PIN or other identifier used to authenticate the transaction is different than the user security phrase used to authenticate the transaction message as being from the source entity and from the identifier used to authenticate messages received by the source entity as being from the transaction authorization service . After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided identifier against an identifier provided by the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service . The authorization through the separate communications channel serves to securely verify that the transaction was initiated by and is authorized by the source entity .

In one embodiment if the source entity does not respond to the transaction authorization service s attempt to confirm the transaction with the source entity via a second communications channel then a transaction phrase may be generated and communicated to the source entity as described below in reference to .

Note that in various embodiments the identifier or code entered or otherwise provided by the source entity to authorize a transaction may be a PIN number e.g. a 4 digit numeric code some other type of alphanumeric code a password a pass phrase a response to a personal question e.g. What is your mother s maiden name or any other form of identifier that can be transmitted over a communications channel. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any of a variety of types of identifiers may be used to identify a source entity. Further note that other forms of identification are possible and contemplated. As an example some embodiments using voice communications as the separate communications channel to authenticate transactions may use voice recognition in authenticating the transactions. In these embodiments the transaction authorization service may analyze the source entity s voice input to determine if the source entity is recognized and may then if recognized ask a question along the lines of Do you authorize this transaction The source entity may then respond Yes or No to authorize or reject the transaction.

As noted above in one embodiment a service security phrase may be used to identify messages from the transaction authorization service to users as being authentic. In one embodiment a service security phrase may be provided by an entity during the registration process that may be used in verifying the authenticity of messages received by the entity as originating from transaction authorization service . In one embodiment rather than entity specifying the phrase a phrase may be provided to entity by transaction authorization service . The service security phrase may for example be a short English language phrase such as The big brown dog note however that embodiments may not restrict the content or language of the phrase. If a message received by entity includes the service security phrase known only to entity and transaction authorization service then entity may feel secure that the message is from transaction authorization service . In one embodiment a service security phrase may be associated with a target entity and may be used for similar purposes in communications between transaction authorization service and the target entity .

In one embodiment the same security phrase may be used to identify messages sent from an entity to transaction authorization service as being authentic messages from the entity and to identify messages sent from transaction authorization service to the entity as being authentic messages from transaction authorization service . In this embodiment the service security phrase and the user security phrase may be the same. In another embodiment different security phrases may be used to identify messages sent from an entity to transaction authorization service as being authentic messages from entity and to identify messages sent from transaction authorization service to entity as being authentic messages from transaction authorization service . In this embodiment the service security phrase and the user security phrase are distinct and different phrases. In one embodiment that includes both a service security phrase and a user security phrase the user may be required to specify or may be assigned different security phrases for the user security phrase and the service security phrase. In another embodiment that includes both a service security phrase and a user security phrase the user may be allowed to specify or may be assigned the same security phrase for the user security phrase and the service security phrase if desired or may be allowed to specify different security phrases if desired.

After the transaction has been authorized through the second communications channel the transaction authorization service may notify the target entity of the transaction. The notification message may include an indication that the notification message is authentic e.g. is from the transaction authorization service . The target entity may then complete the transaction with the transaction authorization service for example by communicating with the transaction authorization service to receive a payment or a transferal of funds initiated by the first source entity . In one embodiment the target entity may be required or may as an option include a user security phrase associated with the target entity in the communications with the transaction authorization service to identify the communications as being from the target entity .

Note that the transaction authorization service may be used to perform the actual funds transfer for the transaction and thus may provide accounts for funds transfer to various entities which may include either one or both of source entity and target entity or alternatively the transaction authorization service may serve as an authorization service for one or more other services that perform the actual funds transfer.

Further note that the source entity and or the target entity may represent individuals or corporate entities such as organizations businesses retail businesses industrial enterprises e commerce businesses governmental entities or in general any two entities between which a transaction may take place. Further note that the transaction may be a payment for goods or services a money or other commodity transfer a payment or transfer for other purposes e.g. for tax purposes or in general any transaction involving the transferal of a commodity from one entity to another. Further note that embodiments may be used for other purposes than for authorization of transfers of commodities for example for authorizing the scheduling allocation or transferal of resources for scheduling and responding to meetings etc. For any of these purposes user security phrases may be used as described above to authenticate messages as being from entities whether source or target entities.

In one embodiment the user security phrase may be expired according to a pre specified schedule. For example the transaction authorization service may expire a user s user security phrase after 90 days or six months requiring the user to specify or alternatively assigning a new user security phrase.

As previously mentioned in one embodiment the transaction authorization service may provide a mechanism or mechanisms whereby a user can change an existing user security phrase if necessary or desired. In addition in one embodiment the transaction authorization service may provide a mechanism to automatically change an existing user security phrase if necessary. For example the transaction authorization service may detect unauthorized access of a user s account from one or more messages received with missing or invalid user security phrases. In one embodiment in addition to simply rejecting or ignoring the messages the transaction authorization service may attempt to contact the entity associated with the account to inform the entity of the attempts at unauthorized access. The entity if contacted may then change the user security phrase if desired. Alternatively in one embodiment the transaction authorization service may proactively change the user security phrase if one or more consecutive attempts at unauthorized access are detected for example if the transaction authorization service receives three messages including invalid user security phrases in a row the transaction authorization service may change the user security phrase and attempt to contact the entity associated with the account. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may disable the account for a period e.g. 5 minutes or 30 minutes upon detecting one or a series of unauthorized access attempts using invalid user security phrases or alternatively may disable the account until the entity can be contacted and the problem rectified to the entity s and service s satisfaction.

Using a second separate communications channel to authorize a transaction initiated via a first communications channel may help to insure the security of the transaction and of the source entity s account. In addition in embodiments the second communications channel may be specified by a telephone number alias or other type of address that is assigned to a particular physical device for example a conventional phone a cell phone or other personal electronic device. This device is or should be associated with and in the possession of the source entity for example the source entity s home phone personal cell phone or other personal electronic device. This may help to provide two form factor security for transactions. Not only must the source entity possess some knowledge e.g. a PIN number or other identifier that is necessary to authorize transactions but the source entity must also be in possession of the device associated with the second communications channel e.g. a particular cell phone associated with a cell phone number to authorize transactions. To authorize a transaction an entity must be in possession of the mechanism to participate on the second communication channel as well as the PIN number or other identifier used in authorizing the transaction.

In addition the use of a user security phrase for commands or messages sent from the user e.g. a source or target entity to the transaction authorization service helps to protect the accounts of users of the transaction authorization service from unauthorized access by a third party. A third party would also need the correct user security phrase associated with a user s account to correctly message the transaction authorization service for example to initiate pay transactions on the user account or to initiate other transactions on or accesses of the user account. If a message received by the transaction authorization service does not include the correct user security phrase the transaction authorization service may ignore or otherwise handle the message to protect and possibly inform the user associated with the account.

At upon receiving the transaction initiation message the transaction authorization service determines if the transaction initiation phrase is authentic i.e. is from the source entity by checking to see if the transaction initiation message includes a valid user security phrase. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service parses the message to find the user security phrase. The transaction authorization service may then verify that the user security phrase if provided by the source entity in the transaction initiation message is valid for example by checking the provided user security phrase against a user security phrase specified or selected by the source entity or assigned to the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the transaction initiation message does not include the user security phrase or the user security phrase is not correct is not valid the transaction authorization service may reject the transaction or otherwise handle the transaction to protect the source entity as indicated at . In one embodiment if the transaction initiation message includes an error in the user security phrase or other content then the transaction authorization service may contact the source entity to request verification corrections to the transaction initiation message as described below in reference to B and .

If at the transaction authorization service determines that the transaction initiation message includes a valid user security phrase then as indicated at the transaction authorization service may confirm the transaction with the source entity via a second communications channel. As previously described various embodiments may use different communications mechanisms for example conventional telephone systems mobile cellular phone systems and text messaging systems e.g. SMS as the second communications channel. The transaction authorization service may initiate a communications with a device associated with the second communications channel e.g. a conventional telephone a cell phone a PDA etc. that is in the possession of the source entity. The communications may include information identifying the message as authentic for example a service security phrase may identify the transaction and may request authorization of the transaction. To authorize the transaction the source entity may provide a PIN number or other identifier via the second communications channel in response to the communications. In one embodiment the PIN number or other identifier used to authorize the transaction may be different than the user security phrase. In some embodiments the source entity may reply to the authorization text message at a later time and or through some other communications channel e.g. through a text message or email message . Some embodiments may provide a mechanism or mechanisms whereby the source entity may cancel or deny the transaction. After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided identifier against an identifier provided by the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service.

In one embodiment if the source entity does not respond to the transaction authorization service s attempt to confirm the transaction with the source entity via a second communications channel then a transaction phrase may be generated and communicated to the source entity as described below in reference to .

As indicated at after the transaction has been authorized with the source entity via the second communications channel the transaction authorization service may complete the transaction with the target entity. In various embodiments the transaction authorization service and or the source entity may contact the target entity to inform the target entity of the transaction. This contact may inform the target entity as to how to obtain the funds indicated by the transaction. The target entity may then respond to complete the transaction with the transaction authorization service. In one embodiment if not already registered the target entity may be required to register with the transaction authorization service to obtain an account in order to obtain the funds. Note that in one embodiment a temporary account may be created to hold the funds until the target entity registers. If the target entity already has an account with the transaction authorization service the transaction may be automatically performed by transferring funds from the source entity s account into the target entity s account. In this case the contact may be to inform the target entity that the transaction has been made and that the funds are available in the target entity s account. In some embodiments other methods for obtaining the funds than registering with the transaction authorization service may be provided. For example a check for the funds may be cut and mailed to the target entity or the funds may be electronically transferred to another account e.g. a bank account at the request of the target entity. In some embodiments the target entity may be required to or may optionally use a user security phrase specified by or assigned to the target entity and known only to the target entity and the transaction authorization service in messages sent to the transaction authorization service to verify that the messages are from the target entity.

One or more user interface elements may also be provided for the registrant to create one or more user security phrases. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may require the registrant to have and to use a user security phrase in at least some commands and other messages sent to the transaction authorization service. In another embodiment the use of a user security phrase may be provided as an option to the registrant and thus this field may not be a required field. In one embodiment two or more user security phrases may be specified or assigned to the user for example for use with different types of commands or for authenticating pay commands requesting payment at different amount levels. In one embodiment the user interface may require that the user security phrase and the personal ID code are different and thus will not allow the user to enter the same string in both user interface elements.

In one embodiment the user security phrase may be specified by the registrant. In one embodiment the user security phrase may be selected by the registrant from among a set or list of security phrases offered by the transaction authorization service. In one embodiment a user security phrase may be automatically assigned to the registrant. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may provide one or more methods for example via the user interface to the user s account whereby the registrant or the user at some future time may change the currently specified or assigned user security phrase.

Again is exemplary a registration page for a transaction authorization service may include additional user interface elements for entering other information and or may not include some of the user interface elements shown here. For example one or more user interface elements may also be provided for the registrant to specify or to be assigned a service security phrase. In addition other mechanisms or methods may be used to register and or set up an account with a transaction authorization service in some embodiments.

In embodiments of a system and method for the authorization of transactions as described above a transaction authorization mechanism or service may be provided through which a transaction initiated by a source entity via a first communications channel e.g. a pay command or alternatively initiated by a target entity e.g. a request payment command may be authorized with the source entity through a second separate communications channel. In some embodiments rather than simply dropping a transaction if the source entity does not respond to an authorization attempt via the second communications channel e.g. if the source entity does not answer a call or a specified number of contact attempts e.g. three call attempts to a cell phone specified as the second communications channel the transaction authorization service may generate a transaction phrase corresponding to the transaction and communicate the transaction phrase to the source entity. The transaction phrase is also stored by the transaction authorization service and associated with the source entity s account and the particular transaction as initiated and may be used to identify the transaction. After receiving the transaction phrase the source entity may then if desired return the transaction phrase to the transaction authorization service. Upon receiving the transaction phrase from the source entity the transaction authorization service may then contact the source entity via the second communications channel to authorize the transaction as normal. The transaction authorization service identifies the transaction to be authorized via the stored transaction phrase associated with the source entity s account and the particular transaction.

A transaction phrase may be generated by the transaction authorization service and may be a word a number a phrase including two or more words an alphanumeric string or in general any sequence of characters available on the communications channel used to communicate the transaction phrase. To generate the transaction phrase the transaction authorization service may for example select from among a list of phrases use a random phrase generator or use some other method. In one embodiment transaction phrases may include one or more hints relevant to the particular transaction for example the name of the source entity and or target entity. The transaction phrase may be viewed as a label handle or identifier. In one embodiment a transaction phrase uniquely identifies a transaction within the transaction authorization service. In one embodiment the transaction phrase is not necessarily unique across all users of the transaction authorization service but is unique for the particular user. In one embodiment a time to live indicator may be associated with transaction phrases so that transaction phrases may be expired after a specified period.

The transaction phrase may be communicated from the transaction authorization service to the source entity and or from the source entity to the transaction authorization service via the second communications channel the first communications channel or via some other communications channel. The transaction phrase may be communicated via a phone call a text message an email message a message provided on the entity s account page with the transaction authorization service or via some other message format type or channel.

The following is an exemplary format for a message from the transaction authorization service to a source entity to communicate a transaction phrase. This message format is not intended to be limiting 

In the above exemplary command represents the monetary amount to be paid and represents a name or other identifier of the payee e.g. the target entity . The item represents a transaction phrase generated by the transaction authorization service that may use to identify the transaction in a response from the source entity to the transaction authorization service.

Once the source entity receives the message including the transaction phrase the source entity may if desired contact the transaction authorization service via the first communications channel or in some embodiments via some other communications channel to reissue the transaction. However instead of entering the entire transaction over again the source entity simply enters the transaction phrase. The transaction authorization service upon receiving the transaction phrase from the source entity identifies the associated transaction and attempts to contact the source entity via the second communications channel to authorize the transaction as normal. If the source entity responds the source entity may then enter the source entity s PIN or other identifier to authorize the transaction if desired.

It is possible that the source entity may again miss the authorization attempt. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may again message the source entity with the transaction phrase and then wait for the source entity to resubmit the transaction phrase. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may generate a new transaction phrase and message the new transaction phrase to the source entity and then wait for the source entity to submit the new transaction phrase. These authorization attempts may be repeated until the source entity responds to an authorization attempt or in one embodiment until the transaction expires. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may be configured to delete or cancel a transaction after a specified number of such attempts.

Transaction phrases are associated with particular source entities and with particular transactions of the source entities and thus in one embodiment transaction phrases may be used by source entities to re initiate or repeat the transactions associated with the transaction phrases. In this embodiment for example a source entity may miss a transaction authorization request from the transaction authorization service and subsequently receive a transaction phrase from the transaction authorization service. The source entity may then return the transaction phrase to the transaction authorization service which would then contact the source entity via the second communications channel to authorize the transaction indicated by the transaction phrase. The source entity may authorize the transaction via the second communications channel. Subsequently the source entity may again send the same transaction phrase to the transaction authorization service to re initiate or repeat the transaction indicated by the transaction phrase without having to re enter the details of the transaction e.g. the target entity the amount etc. . As another example a transaction phrase may be used by a source entity to initiate periodic or aperiodic payments to a particular target entity.

In some embodiments in addition to or as an alternative to the use of transaction phrases to handle cases where source entities for some reason miss transaction authorization requests from the transaction authorization service via a second communications channel a replay command message or phrase may be provided whereby a source entity may request that the transaction authorization service replay to the source entity any transaction authorization requests missed by the source entity. Rather than being associated with a particular transaction as is the transaction phrase a replay command received from a source entity prompts the transaction authorization service to repeat any pending transaction authorizations e.g. contacts to the source entity via the second communications channel to authorize any pending transactions for example payments to target entities that may have been missed by the source entity via the second communications channel.

For example the source entity may be away from the device e.g. cell phone associated with the second communications channel for a period or the device may be out of service turned off or busy. Once the device associated with the second communications channel is again available to the source entity the source entity may submit a replay command to the transaction authorization service. The replay command may be submitted via the first communications channel the second communications channel or via some other communications channel. Upon receiving the replay command the transaction authorization service may check to see if there are any pending transactions for the source entity e.g. any transaction authorization requests that the source entity missed. If there are pending transactions the transaction authorization service may then replay the transaction authorizations requests via the second communications channel to the source entity.

In a first or source entity initiates a transaction e.g. a payment or money transfer to a second or target entity with a transaction authorization service via a first communication channel for example a telephone call via a conventional land based telephone a telephone call via a mobile cellular phone a text message initiated from a cell phone or other device capable of text messaging an email message or over some other communications channel. The transaction initiation message may include information that may be used to identify the source entity or may otherwise be identifiable as being from the particular entity. In some embodiments the transaction authorization service may identify the transaction initiation message as authentic as being from the source entity via one or more methods. For example in one embodiment caller ID may be used to identify the transaction initiation message as authentic. In one embodiment the transaction initiation message may include a user security phrase or other identifier known only to the source entity and to the transaction authorization service. Other methods for identifying the transaction initiation message as authentic may be used in various embodiments. The transaction initiation message may also include but is not limited to information identifying the target entity or entities e.g. a telephone number account number email address alias etc. and an amount to be paid or transferred to the target entity s . While not shown in this Figure source entity may similarly initiate a transaction to two or more target entities as illustrated in . In addition source entity may initiate a transaction with target entity as illustrated in .

In instead of source entity communicating with transaction authorization service or target entity to initiate a transaction target entity communicates with transaction authorization service to initiate a transaction with source entity . This embodiment may be used for example to enable the target entity to request a payment from the source entity while allowing the source entity to authorize the payment. Target entity may communicate with transaction authorization service to initiate a transaction with source entity over a communications channel e.g. a voice message over a telephone system a text message an email etc. . The communication or transaction initiation message may include but is not limited to information identifying the source entity and an amount that the target entity is requesting to be transferred to the target entity by the source entity . The information identifying the source entity may also include information identifying a communications channel to be used to contact the source entity to authorize the transaction. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may identify the transaction initiation message as authentic as being from the target entity via one or more other methods. For example in one embodiment the transaction initiation message may include a user security phrase or other identifier known only to the target entity and to the transaction authorization service.

In both before completing the transaction to the target entity the transaction authorization service attempts to authorize the transaction with the source entity via communications through a second and separate communications channel for example a telephone call to a cell phone standard telephone PDA or other device capable of telephone communications via a text message to a text message capable device in possession of the source entity or through some other communications channel. In both the source entity does not respond to the authorization attempt. For example the source entity may miss or not answer the authorization phone call.

In transaction authorization service generates a transaction phrase for the initiated transaction and communicates the transaction phrase to the source entity . The transaction phrase may be communicated from the transaction authorization service to the source entity via the first communications channel the second communications channel or via some other communications channel. The transaction phrase may be communicated via a phone call a text message an email message a message provided on the entity s account page with the transaction authorization service or via some other message format type or channel.

Once the source entity receives the transaction phrase the source entity may if desired contact the transaction authorization service via the first communications channel or in some embodiments via some other communications channel to reissue the transaction. However instead of entering the entire transaction over again the source entity simply enters the transaction phrase . The transaction authorization service after receiving the transaction phrase from the source entity identifies the associated transaction and attempts to contact the source entity via the second communications channel to authorize the transaction as normal as illustrated in . If the source entity responds the source entity may then enter the source entity s PIN or other identifier to authorize the transaction if desired. If the transaction is successfully authorized the transaction authorization service may then complete the transaction with the target entity as illustrated in .

It is possible that the source entity may again miss the authorization attempt. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may again message the source entity with the transaction phrase as illustrated in and then wait for the source entity to resubmit the transaction phrase . In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may generate a new transaction phrase and message the new transaction phrase to the source entity and then wait for the source entity to submit the new transaction phrase . These authorization attempts may be repeated until the source entity responds to an authorization attempt or in one embodiment until the transaction expires. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may be configured to delete or cancel a transaction after a specified number of such attempts.

As indicated at before completing the transaction to the target entity the transaction authorization service attempts to authorize the transaction with the source entity via communications through a second and separate communications channel for example a telephone call to a cell phone standard telephone PDA or other device capable of telephone communications via a text message to a text message capable device in possession of the source entity or through some other communications channel.

At if the source entity does not respond to the authorization attempt for example if the source entity misses or does not answer the authorization phone call then the transaction authorization service generates a transaction phrase and communicates the transaction phrase to the source entity as indicated at . The transaction phrase may be communicated from the transaction authorization service to the source entity via the first communications channel the second communications channel or via some other communications channel. The transaction phrase may be communicated via a phone call a text message an email message a message provided on the entity s account page with the transaction authorization service or via some other message format type or channel. As indicated at once the source entity receives the transaction phrase the source entity may if desired contact the transaction authorization service via the first communications channel or in some embodiments via some other communications channel to reissue the transaction. However instead of entering the entire transaction over again the source entity simply enters the transaction phrase. The transaction authorization service after receiving the transaction phrase from the source entity identifies the associated transaction and again attempts to authorize the transaction with the source entity as indicated at .

At if the source entity does respond to the authorization attempt the source entity may enter the source entity s PIN or other identifier to authorize the transaction if desired. At if the transaction is successfully authorized the transaction authorization service may then complete the transaction with the target entity as indicated at . At if the transaction is not authorized the transaction service may cancel the transaction as indicated at .

In embodiments of a system and method for the authorization of transactions as described above a transaction authorization mechanism or service may be provided through which a transaction initiated by a source entity via a first communications channel e.g. a pay command may be authorized with the source entity through a second separate communications channel. It is possible that a source entity may make one or more mistakes or errors when entering a request such as a pay command via the first communications channel. In some embodiments rather than simply ignoring or dropping a transaction if the source entity makes a mistake in the request message or simply contacting the source entity to inform them that the pay command was incorrect and that they must enter a new request message to initiate the transaction thus requiring the source entity to re enter an entire correct command via the first communications channel to initiate the desired transaction the transaction authorization service may in response to receiving an incorrect request message contact the source entity for example via the second communications channel and allow the source entity to correct the faulty request message during the communication session. In one embodiment only incorrect or missing portions of the request message may have to be corrected and thus the source entity may not be required to re enter the entire command but instead may be allowed to correct one or more incorrect portions and or add one or more missing portions. In one embodiment correction of the request message may be performed as part of the normal authorization contact from the transaction authorization service to the source entity and thus the correction may not require any extra communications attempts or sessions between the transaction authorization service and the source entity. In one embodiment if the source entity misses the authorization contact a transaction phrase may be generated for the transaction and communicated to the source entity as described above.

In one embodiment that requires user security phrases for pay commands from the source entity the contact by the transaction authorization service for pay command verification may be initiated in response to a pay command received by the transaction authorization service that does not include or includes an incorrect user security phrase. In one embodiment the source entity may be required to enter a correct user security phrase to authenticate the source entity before the transaction can be authorized. In another embodiment the source entity may not be required to enter a correct user security phrase.

The following is an exemplary format for a message from the transaction authorization service to a source entity requesting verification of a faulty pay command. This message format is not intended to be limiting 

If the source entity enters their PIN or other identifier then the transaction authorization service may in one embodiment prompt the user indicating at least a portion of the payment command as received and may allow the user to correct the incorrect portions and or enter any missing portions. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may prompt the source entity to indicate an incorrect portion of the command and allow the user to enter a correction. Alternatively the source entity may re enter the command in its entirety if necessary or desired. In another embodiment the transaction authorization service may require the source entity to re enter the entire command.

The following is an exemplary format for a message from the transaction authorization service to a source entity requesting correction of a part of a faulty pay command in which an identifier of a target entity for example a phone number is incorrect. This message format is not intended to be limiting 

Similar messages may be used to request corrections or verifications of other portions of a pay command for example the amount to be paid. For example in one embodiment the transaction authorization service may be configured to consider a pay command incorrect if the amount entered as to be paid is about a specified threshold. In this case during the authorization contact the transaction authorization service may request that the source entity verify that the as entered in the original pay request be verified. The following is an exemplary format for a message from the transaction authorization service to a source entity requesting verification of the amount indicated in a pay command. This message format is not intended to be limiting 

If the source entity enters Y then the authorization of the transaction may proceed. If the source entity enters N then in one embodiment the source entity may be prompted to enter a corrected amount.

In a first or source entity may initiate a transaction e.g. a payment or money transfer to a second or target entity with a transaction authorization service via a first communication channel for example a telephone call via a conventional land based telephone a telephone call via a mobile cellular phone a text message initiated from a cell phone or other device capable of text messaging an email message or over some other communications channel. In one embodiment the transaction initiation message transaction may include a user security phrase or other identifier known only to the source entity and to the transaction authorization service to identify the message as being from the source entity . Note that in some embodiments the transaction authorization service may identify the transaction initiation message as authentic as being from the source entity via one or more other methods in addition to the user security phrase. For example in one embodiment caller ID may be used in addition to the user security phrase to identify the transaction initiation message as authentic. Other methods for identifying the transaction initiation message as authentic may be used in various embodiments. The transaction initiation message may also include but is not limited to information identifying the target entity or entities e.g. a telephone number account number email address alias etc. and an amount to be paid or transferred to the target entity s .

Upon receiving the transaction the transaction authorization service parses the message to find the required and or optional fields. The transaction authorization service may perform various checks to determine if the content of the fields is valid. As an example in an embodiment that requires a user security phrase the transaction authorization service may check to see if the user security phrase is included and if included check the provided user security phrase against a user security phrase specified or selected by the source entity or assigned to the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. As another example the transaction authorization service may also check to see if the target entity is specified and if specified if the target entity is legible and otherwise valid e.g. a valid phone number for a known target entity . As another example the transaction authorization service may also check to see if the amount is legible and if legible below or above a specified limit. If the content of the message is verified as being correct then authorization of the message pay command may proceed as normal. If the content of the message includes one or more errors then instead of ignoring the transaction or messaging the source entity that the transaction is illegible and thus must be re entered via the first communications channel the transaction authorization service may contact the source entity via the second communications channel to request transactions corrections . In one embodiment this may be performed as part of the authorize transaction request.

The following describes an authorization transaction request according to one embodiment. Before completing the transaction to the target entity the transaction authorization service attempts to authorize the transaction with the source entity via communications through a second and separate communications channel for example a telephone call to a cell phone standard telephone PDA or other device capable of telephone communications via a text message to a text message capable device in possession of the source entity or through some other communications channel. Note that the initiation of the transaction and the authorization of the transaction may be but are not necessarily performed by the source entity using the same device e.g. a cell phone but that two different communications channels are used.

The communication e.g. a message or authorization request from the transaction authorization service via the separate communications channel may include an indication that the message is authentic e.g. is from the transaction authorization service . In one embodiment the indication may be a code phrase or other identifier known only to the source entity and the transaction authorization service that identifies the transaction authorization service to the source entity and may be referred to as a service security phrase. In one embodiment this code phrase or other identifier the service security phrase is different than the user security phrase used to authenticate the transaction message as being from the source entity . The source entity may authorize the transaction by providing a code or identifier associated with the source entity and known by the transaction authorization service via the second communications channel in response to the authorization request for example by entering a Personal Identification Number PIN or other identifier on the keypad of a cell phone or other device on which the authorization message was received. In one embodiment the PIN or other identifier used to authenticate the transaction is different than the user security phrase used to authenticate the transaction message as being from the source entity and from the identifier used to authenticate messages received by the source entity as being from the transaction authorization service . After receiving the response from the source entity including a PIN or other identifier the transaction authorization service may verify that the PIN or other identifier provided by the source entity is valid for example by checking the provided identifier against an identifier provided by the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. If the provided PIN or other identifier is not valid then the transaction is not considered authorized by the transaction authorization service . The authorization through the separate communications channel serves to securely verify that the transaction was initiated by and is authorized by the source entity .

In one embodiment if the original pay command was incorrect instead of the standard authentication request described above an authentication request that allows the source entity to correct incorrect or missing portions of the pay command may be used by the transaction authorization service . The following is an exemplary format for a message from the transaction authorization service to a source entity requesting verification of a faulty pay command. This message format is not intended to be limiting 

If the source entity enters their PIN or other identifier then the transaction authorization service may in one embodiment prompt the source entity indicating at least a portion of the payment command as received and may allow the source entity to correct the incorrect portions and or enter any missing portions. In one embodiment the transaction authorization service may prompt the source entity to indicate an incorrect portion of the command and allow the source entity to enter a correction. Alternatively the source entity may re enter the command in its entirety if necessary or desired. In another embodiment the transaction authorization service may require the source entity to re enter the entire command.

The following is an exemplary format for a message from the transaction authorization service to a source entity requesting correction of a part of a faulty pay command in which an identifier of a target entity for example a phone number is incorrect. This message format is not intended to be limiting 

Similar messages may be used to request corrections or verifications of other portions of a pay command for example the amount to be paid. For example in one embodiment the transaction authorization service may be configured to consider a pay command incorrect if the amount entered as to be paid is about a specified threshold. In this case during the authorization contact the transaction authorization service may request that the source entity verify that the as entered in the original pay request be verified. The following is an exemplary format for a message from the transaction authorization service to a source entity requesting verification of the amount indicated in a pay command. This message format is not intended to be limiting 

If the source entity enters Y then the authorization of the transaction may proceed. If the source entity enters N then in one embodiment the source entity may be prompted to enter a corrected amount.

In one embodiment that requires user security phrases for pay commands from the source entity the contact by the transaction authorization service for pay command verification may be initiated in response to a pay command received by the transaction authorization service that does not include or includes an incorrect user security phrase. In one embodiment the source entity may be required to enter a correct user security phrase to authenticate the source entity before the transaction can be authorized. In another embodiment the source entity may not be required to enter a correct user security phrase.

In one embodiment if the source entity does not respond to the contact from the transaction authorization service requesting corrections to a faulty pay command then a transaction phrase may be generated and communicated to the source entity as previously described in reference to .

In after the transaction has been corrected and authorized through the second communications channel the transaction authorization service may notify the target entity of the transaction. The notification message may include an indication that the notification message is authentic e.g. is from the transaction authorization service . The target entity may then complete the transaction with the transaction authorization service for example by communicating with the transaction authorization service to receive a payment or a transferal of funds initiated by the first source entity in the corrected pay command. In one embodiment the target entity may be required or may as an option include a user security phrase associated with the target entity in the communications with the transaction authorization service to identify the communications as being from the target entity .

Note that the transaction authorization service may be used to perform the actual funds transfer for the transaction and thus may provide accounts for funds transfer to various entities which may include either one or both of source entity and target entity or alternatively the transaction authorization service may serve as an authorization service for one or more other services that perform the actual funds transfer.

Further note that the source entity and or the target entity may represent individuals or corporate entities such as organizations businesses retail businesses industrial enterprises e commerce businesses governmental entities or in general any two entities between which a transaction may take place. Further note that the transaction may be a payment for goods or services a money or other commodity transfer a payment or transfer for other purposes e.g. for tax purposes or in general any transaction involving the transferal of a commodity from one entity to another. Further note that embodiments may be used for other purposes than for authorization of transfers of commodities for example for authorizing the scheduling allocation or transferal of resources for scheduling and responding to meetings etc. For any of these purposes user security phrases may be used as described above to authenticate messages as being from entities whether source or target entities.

At upon receiving the transaction initiation message the transaction authorization service parses the message to find the required and or optional fields. The transaction authorization service may perform various checks to determine if the content of the fields is valid. As an example in an embodiment that requires a user security phrase the transaction authorization service may check to see if the user security phrase is included and if included check the provided user security phrase against a user security phrase specified or selected by the source entity or assigned to the source entity during a registration process for the transaction authorization service. As another example the transaction authorization service may also check to see if the target entity is specified and if specified if the target entity is legible and otherwise valid e.g. a valid phone number for a known target entity . As another example the transaction authorization service may also check to see if the amount is legible and if legible below or above a specified limit. If the content of the message is verified as being correct then authorization of the message pay command may proceed as normal as indicated at . If the content of the message includes one or more errors then instead of ignoring the transaction or messaging the source entity that the transaction is illegible and thus must be re entered via the first communications channel the transaction authorization service may contact the source entity via the second communications channel to request transactions corrections and thus obtain a valid transaction and to confirm or authorize the transaction as indicated at .

In one embodiment if the source entity does not respond to the contact from the transaction authorization service at or then a transaction phrase may be generated and communicated to the source entity as previously described in reference to .

As indicated at after the transaction has been corrected if necessary and authorized with the source entity via the second communications channel the transaction authorization service may complete the transaction with the target entity. In various embodiments the transaction authorization service and or the source entity may contact the target entity to inform the target entity of the transaction. This contact may inform the target entity as to how to obtain the funds indicated by the transaction. The target entity may then respond to complete the transaction with the transaction authorization service.

In one embodiment a Web server that implements one or more components of a transaction authorization mechanism or service as described herein may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media such as computer system illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those methods and techniques described above for a transaction authorization mechanism or service are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems or communications devices as illustrated in for example. In particular network interface may be configured to allow communication between computer system and client devices through various communications channels via network s . These client devices may include the various communications devices as illustrated in and may include devices associated with source entities and devices associated with target entities. The communications channels may include but are not limited to conventional and mobile telephone and text messaging communications channels. Network interface may commonly support one or more wireless networking protocols e.g. Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 or another wireless networking standard . However in various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as other types of Ethernet network for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for for implementing a transaction authorization service for authorizing transactions. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. As well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The various methods as illustrated in the Figures and described herein represent exemplary embodiments of methods. The methods may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. The order of method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc.

Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. It is intended to embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

