---

title: Method and apparatus for performing a financial transaction
abstract: A system that performs a financial transaction on behalf of a user is presented. During operation, the system receives parameters for the financial transaction. Next, the system analyzes the parameters to determine financial benefits of using one or more subsets of financial sources from a set of financial sources associated with the user to fulfill the financial transaction. The system then selects a subset of financial sources which substantially maximizes the financial benefits for the user. Next, the system uses the selected subset of financial sources to fulfill the financial transaction on behalf of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996407&OS=08996407&RS=08996407
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08996407
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070427
---
The subject matter of this application is related to the subject matter in a co pending non provisional application by Matt E. Hart entitled Method and Apparatus for Performing a Financial Transaction having Ser. No. 11 523 929 and filing date 19 Sep. 2006.

The present invention relates to techniques for performing a financial transaction on behalf of a user.

Credit cards issuers typically provide value added programs that reward consumers for using specific credit cards. The rewards associated with these value added programs are based on the purchases made by the consumer and can include airline frequent flyer miles a percentage of the purchase amount i.e. cash back an upgrade to a higher service level provided by the credit card issuer e.g. gold to platinum status or points that can be redeemed with partners of the value added program. Moreover each value added program can offer different types of rewards and incentives. For example a gasoline credit card might give 5 cash back for gasoline purchases but only 1 cash back for other purchases whereas an airline credit card might offer double miles for purchases made at supermarkets and single miles for all other purchases.

Furthermore consumers typically have more than one credit card and rewards cannot be transferred between the value added programs associated with the different credit cards. Moreover some value added programs can only be applied to certain purchases e.g. gasoline supermarket etc. .

These value added programs are not limited to credit card rewards programs. For example supermarkets and retailers offer rewards programs that give a consumer a discount on products in exchange for permission to track the buying habits of the consumer.

Keeping track of these value added programs and determining which credit card and or other value added programs generates the best financial benefit for a particular purchase is a complicated task.

One embodiment of the present invention provides a system that performs a financial transaction on behalf of a user. During operation the system receives parameters for the financial transaction. Next the system analyzes the parameters to determine financial benefits of using one or more subsets of financial sources from a set of financial sources associated with the user to fulfill the financial transaction. The system then selects a subset of financial sources which substantially maximizes the financial benefits for the user. Next the system uses the selected subset of financial sources to fulfill the financial transaction on behalf of the user.

In one embodiment the parameters associated with the financial transaction can include a payee an amount of money involved in the financial transaction and a category for the payee.

In one embodiment while analyzing the parameters to determine the financial benefits of using one or more subsets of financial sources to fulfill the financial transaction for each financial source within the set of financial sources the system 1 identifies one or more rewards associated with the financial source and 2 calculates the financial benefit of the financial source based on a value of the one or more rewards and the parameters for the financial transaction.

In one embodiment prior to calculating the financial benefit of the financial source the system calculates the value of the one or more rewards for the financial source in terms of a base unit.

In one embodiment the system receives an indication of one or more preferred financial sources in the set of financial sources. The system then adjusts the financial benefit of each financial source within the set of financial sources so that the one or more preferred financial sources are valued more highly than other financial sources.

In one embodiment a reward can include a specified interest rate a cash back reward a frequent flyer reward a hotel reward and any other type of reward.

In one embodiment the system generates a report for the user which identifies the selected subset of financial sources and indicates the financial benefits of using the selected subset of financial sources.

In one embodiment the system notifies the user of other financial sources which can provide greater financial benefit than the set of financial sources already associated with the user.

In one embodiment a financial source can include a checking account a savings account a credit card account a debit card account an investment account and any other financial source.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a particular application and its requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the present invention is not limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

The data structures and code described in this detailed description are typically stored on a computer readable storage medium which may be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a computer system. This includes but is not limited to volatile memory non volatile memory magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs DVDs digital versatile discs or digital video discs or other media capable of storing computer readable media now known or later developed.

One embodiment of the present invention aggregates multiple credit cards for a consumer and replaces the multiple credit cards with a single aggregate credit card. In this embodiment when the consumer makes a purchase using the aggregate credit card the amount of money associated with the purchase is applied to one or more credit cards that meet specified selection criteria.

Note that the discussion below describes the present invention as applied to credit card transactions. However the present invention can be applied to any financial transaction wherein a consumer wants to determine the benefits of using one or more financial sources to fulfill the financial transaction.

One embodiment of the present invention applies a subset of financial sources for a user to fulfill a financial transaction on behalf of the user wherein the subset of financial sources substantially maximizes the financial benefits for the user. In one embodiment the financial transaction can include paying bills.

A typical consumer has a number of credit cards. When making a purchase from a merchant the consumer chooses one credit card to make the purchase. During this purchase the merchant uses a point of sale device POS to initiate a credit card authorization request to determine whether the consumer is authorized to use the chosen credit card to make the purchase. Note that the point of sale device can include any type of device which can authorize a purchase using credit or using any other financial source. The point of sale device then contacts a clearing house credit processor through a network to request authorization to apply the amount of money associated with the purchase to the chosen credit card.

Note that the networks can generally include any type of wired or wireless communication channel capable of coupling together computing nodes. This includes but is not limited to a local area network a wide area network a telephone network or a combination of networks. In one embodiment of the present invention the network includes the Internet.

Note that the clearing house credit processor can include any financial institution that can process credit card transactions. Also note that more than one clearing house credit processor can be used. Furthermore note that credit card clearing house processors can be coupled to the same network or coupled to different networks.

Next the clearing house credit processor analyzes the parameters associated with the authorization request and determines which credit card issuer issued the chosen credit card to the consumer. The clearing house credit processor then sends a request through the network to the determined credit card issuer to authorize the purchase.

Note that credit card issuers typically provide services to multiple consumers. Hence the credit card issuer first identifies which consumer account is associated with the chosen credit card and then determines whether the amount of money associated with the purchase can be authorized for the identified consumer account. The answer to the authorization request is sent back to the clearing house credit processor which forwards the information back to the POS device. If the amount of money associated with the purchase is authorized the credit card issuer applies a charge to the identified consumer account for that amount once the transaction is finalized.

The clearing house credit processor then identifies a bank that maintains a merchant account for the merchant based on the parameters associated with the authorization request. For example the clearing house credit processor can identify bank and merchant bank account . In one embodiment of the present invention the bank can be any financial institution e.g. financial institution including but not limited to a bank a lending institution a credit card company an investment broker or any other type of institution capable of holding equity or debt on behalf of an entity. A credit for the purchase amount is then applied to the identified merchant bank account.

Note that the above described process is presented for illustrative purposes only and that the credit card authorization process can be modified without changing the operation of the present invention. Furthermore note that when applying other value added programs not associated with credit cards to the purchase a separate process can be used to authorize and to apply the benefits of the value added program.

In one embodiment of the present invention credit cards for consumer are aggregated into a single aggregate credit card . In one embodiment of the present invention information about the benefits and value added programs the interest rates and credit limits associated with credit cards are stored at aggregate credit processor . In another embodiment of the present invention information about the benefits of value added programs not associated with credit cards is also stored at aggregate credit processor so that these benefits can be accessed when consumer uses aggregate credit card .

In consumer uses aggregate credit card to make a purchase from merchant . During this purchase merchant uses point of sale device POS to initiate a credit card authorization request to determine whether consumer is authorized to use aggregate credit card to make the purchase. Point of sale device then contacts aggregate credit processor through network to request authorization to apply the amount of money associated with the purchase to aggregate credit card .

In one embodiment of the present invention aggregate credit processor uses rules to determine a financial benefit for using a given credit card associated with aggregate credit card . Note that the rules are described in more detail below.

In one embodiment of the present invention the financial transaction can include but is not limited to a credit card transaction a debit card transaction an electronics fund transfer EFT an automated teller machine ATM transaction a transfer of balance between credit cards a loan transaction or any other financial transaction.

In one embodiment of the present invention the parameters associated with the financial transaction can include but are not limited to a merchant identification number a merchant bank account number an amount of money involved in the financial transaction a list of items involved in the financial transaction and a list of categories corresponding to the list of items.

In one embodiment of the present invention the selection criteria can include but are not limited to a financial source with the highest financial benefit a financial source with the lowest financial benefit a subset of the financial sources with the highest financial benefits a subset of the financial sources with the lowest financial benefits a combination of selection criteria or any other selection criteria.

In one embodiment of the present invention after determining one or more credit cards to use to fulfill the purchase aggregate credit processor sends a request through network to the credit card issuer s that issued the determined credit cards to authorize the purchase. For example if aggregate credit processor determines that credit card for consumer is the most beneficial credit card to use aggregate credit processor identifies the credit card issuer that issued credit card to consumer . In one embodiment of the present invention aggregate credit processor determines the credit card issuer that issued credit card to consumer by looking up information about credit card stored on aggregate credit processor . For example aggregate credit processor can determine that credit card issuer issued credit card for consumer . As a result aggregate credit processor sends a request through network to credit card issuer to authorize the purchase.

Note that networks and can generally include any type of wired or wireless communication channel capable of coupling together computing nodes. This includes but is not limited to a local area network a wide area network a telephone network or a combination of networks. In one embodiment of the present invention networks and include the Internet. Also note that networks and can be the same network.

In one embodiment of the present invention aggregate credit processor uses clearing house credit processor to authorize the purchase. In another embodiment of the present invention aggregate credit processor sends the authorization request to credit card issuer .

Credit card issuer then receives the request and determines the consumer account that is associated with credit card . For example credit card issuer can determine that credit card is associated with consumer account . Hence credit card issuer determines whether the amount of money associated with the purchase can be authorized for consumer account . The answer to the authorization request is sent back to aggregate credit processor which forwards the information back to POS device . If the amount of money associated with the purchase is authorized credit card issuer applies a charge to consumer account for that amount once the transaction is finalized.

In one embodiment of the present invention a credit card issuer is also an aggregate credit processor. In aggregate credit card issuer is both an aggregate credit card issuer and an aggregate credit processor. For example transactions involving aggregate credit card issuer can take place as follows. POS device makes an authorization request through clearing house credit processor . Clearing house credit processor then queries aggregate credit card issuer to determine whether the customer is authorized to make a purchase using the aggregate credit card . Next aggregate credit card issuer applies rules associated with aggregate credit card to determine which credit card accounts associated with aggregate credit card are to be charged. Aggregate credit card issuer then processes the charge using the determined credit card accounts through clearing house credit processor . Clearing house credit processor checks with credit card issuers that issued the determined credit cards e.g. credit card issuer . In one embodiment of the present invention aggregate credit card issuer is not a credit card issuer that is queried by credit card processor . Finally if the credit card issuers authorize the purchase amount the authorizations are returned through aggregate credit card issuer and back to merchant .

In one embodiment of the present invention a rule for a value added program associated with a financial source is used to determine a financial benefit of using the financial source. In one embodiment of the present invention the set of rules can include but are not limited to a rule that can be used to determine benefits associated with a credit card rewards program a rule that can be used to determine benefits associated with an airline frequent flyer program a rule that specifies credit card interest rates a rule that specifies loan interest rates or any other rule that can be used to determine benefits associated with a financial source.

In one embodiment of the present invention the base unit is a unit of currency. For example the unit of currency can be a dollar.

In one embodiment of the present invention a default rule for a financial source is provided by a financial institution. In this embodiment an employee of a financial institution can use an application programming interface API to enter information about the financial source. In another embodiment of the present invention a third party processor can manually create a default rule for a financial source provided by a financial institution.

In one embodiment of the present invention an aggregate credit processor uses the parameters associated with a purchase to determine information which is used to select a credit card to fulfill a transaction. For example the aggregate credit processor can determine a merchant identifier ID associated with the purchase and use this merchant ID to determine whether using a given credit card at this merchant is financially beneficial as compared to using the other credit cards.

In some situations a consumer may want to override a default rule provided by a financial institution. For example if a consumer is going to visit a theme park for a vacation the consumer may prefer to have all purchases made in the theme park go to a credit card associated with the theme park. Hence the consumer may modify the default rule for the credit card associated with the theme park to increase the financial benefit of using the credit card at the theme park. Similarly if a consumer wants to accumulate reward points on a given credit card the consumer can modify the default rule for the given credit card to increase the financial benefit of using the given credit card.

Hence in one embodiment of the present invention a default rule provided by a financial institution can be overridden by a user specified rule. In this embodiment the user specified rule can include but is not limited to a rule to use a given financial source for a given financial transaction a rule to use a given financial source until a specified balance associated with the financial source is reached a rule to distribute the financial transaction across a plurality of financial sources or any other rule that overrides the default rule provided by a financial institution.

Determining the financial benefit of a given financial source can be done on a case by case basis. For example determining the financial benefit of a cash back program is different than determining the financial benefit of an airline frequent flyer program. Several examples of determining the financial benefit of value added programs are illustrated below.

Determining the financial benefit of a cash back valued added program can be straightforward. For example if a credit card gives 5 cash back on all purchases the default rule for this credit card can be set so that the financial benefit of using this credit card in terms of the base unit is 0.05. Similarly if a credit card gives 5 cash back on gasoline purchases but only 1 cash back on all other purchases the default rule for this credit card can be set so that the financial benefit of using this credit card in terms of the base unit is 0.05 for gasoline purchases and 0.01 for all other purchases. Hence in one embodiment of the present invention the default rule for a credit card with a cash back program can be set so that the financial benefit is proportional to a percentage of a base unit.

Airline frequent flyer programs sometimes reward consumers with double or triple miles depending on the type of items purchased or depending on the vendor from which the purchase was made. For example consider a credit card that gives triple miles for items purchased at Store A and single miles for all other purchases. The default rule for this credit card can be set so that the financial benefit of using this credit card to make a purchase from Store A is worth three times as much as purchases made from other stores. For example the default rule can be set so that the financial benefit of using this credit card in Store A is 3 and the financial benefit of using this credit card for other purchases is 1. Hence in this example the default rule for a credit card associated with an airline frequent flyer program is set so that the financial benefit is proportional to the miles offered for given purchases.

As pointed out above comparing one value added program to another can be difficult. For example consider two credit cards with different types of value added programs. The first credit card gives 3 cash back on all purchases whereas the second credit card gives double miles for purchases made at gas stations and single miles for all other purchases. In one embodiment of the present invention the value added programs are compared by calculating a real cash value for the value added program. For example if the cost to upgrade from economy class to first class on a single leg of a flight is 15 000 miles and if the cash value in the eyes of the consumer for the upgrade is 1500 then the cash value of a single mile in terms of the base unit is 0.1 and double miles purchases are worth 0.2. These numbers are both larger than the 3 or 0.03 cash value associated with the value added program for the first credit card. Hence if the consumer is making a gasoline purchase the second credit card is a better deal and the aggregate credit processor chooses the second credit card to fulfill the gasoline purchase.

Some credit card value added programs provide multiple ways to redeem rewards. For example a credit card issuer may give points based on the type of purchase made as described above. However the actual financial benefit of choosing a given credit card can depend on the type of redemption made. Consider a consumer with two credit cards. The first credit card gives 3 cash back on all purchases and the second credit card gives double points for gasoline purchases and single points for all other purchases. Furthermore the financial institution that issued the second credit card can have multiple rewards partners such as airlines and stores. The points earned on the second credit card can be redeemed at these rewards partners but the financial benefit of redeeming the points at each rewards partner can be different. For example for the second credit card one point can be used to redeem one frequent flyer mile or one point can be used to get 0.03 cash back. Hence for the second credit card not only does the financial benefit of the value added program need to be accounted for but each possible redemption program must also be accounted for.

In order to determine the financial benefit of the value added program for the second credit card relative to the first credit card information about the redemption preferences for the consumer are required. For example if the consumer is a frequent traveler the consumer may prefer to accumulate as many frequent flyer miles as possible. Hence the financial benefit of the second credit card for this consumer is determined relative to the frequent flyer miles redemption program. In one embodiment of the present invention if the credit card has multiple ways to earn points or rewards and multiple ways to redeem the rewards the financial institution issuing the credit card selects a default rewards redemption program on which to base the default rule. In another embodiment of the present invention the financial institution uses statistical analysis to determine how a typical consumer redeems rewards in order to select the default rewards redemption program. In another embodiment of the present invention the user specifies the rewards redemption program on which to base the rule.

In one embodiment of the present invention the default rule can be modified by the financial institution if there is a promotion.

One embodiment of the present invention aggregates information about rewards programs that are not based on financial instruments and uses parameters associated with the purchase to determine whether to apply these rewards program to the purchase. These rewards programs can include but are not limited to supermarket rewards programs and other rewards programs that track consumer spending habits in exchange for a discount on purchases. For example a supermarket may provide a rewards card that gives holders of the rewards card a discount on items purchased at the supermarket. If a consumer is shopping at the supermarket that issued the rewards card to the consumer aggregate credit processor can use the parameters associated with the purchase to determine if a rule associated with the rewards card exists. If so aggregate credit processor can apply the rewards card to the purchase. This selection process can occur independently or in conjunction with the selection process associated with the financial sources. Hence an optimal set of value added programs can be identified and applied to a given purchase.

One embodiment of the present invention can pay a bill on behalf of a user. More specifically presents a block diagram illustrating a bill paying operation for user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in user has one or more financial sources each of which can be associated with one or more rewards . In one embodiment of the present invention a financial source can include a checking account a savings account a credit card account a debit card account an investment account and any other financial source. In one embodiment of the present invention a reward can include a specified interest rate e.g. in a savings account CD account interest bearing checking account etc. a cash back reward a frequent flyer reward a hotel reward and any other type of reward.

In one embodiment of the present invention user enters information about financial sources into application . In one embodiment of the present invention application is a client based application. For example the client based application can include a personal finance application or a business finance application. In another embodiment of the present invention application is an Internet based application. For example the Internet based application can include an application which can be accessed by a web browser.

In one embodiment of the present invention receiving mechanism is configured to receive parameters for the financial transaction. In one embodiment of the present invention analysis mechanism is configured to 1 analyze the parameters to determine financial benefits of using one or more subsets of financial sources from a set of financial sources associated with the user to fulfill the financial transaction and 2 select a subset of financial sources which substantially maximizes the financial benefits for the user. In one embodiment of the present invention financial transaction mechanism is configured to use the selected subset of financial sources to fulfill the financial transaction on behalf of the user.

Referring back to in another embodiment of the present invention information about financial sources is automatically entered into application based on an identifier for user . For example user can supply a social security number to application which can then search for financial sources associated with the social security number.

In one embodiment of the present invention one or more financial transactions are associated with user and payees . In one embodiment of the present invention the one or more financial transactions can include bills for user . In one embodiment payees can include a cable TV company a satellite TV company a public utilities company e.g. water gas electricity etc. a waste disposal company a credit card company a bank a telephone company and any other payee. Note that payees are typically have accounts at financial institutions not shown which can receive payments from users.

In one embodiment of the present invention financial transactions are transmitted to application by payees through network . In another embodiment of the present invention user enters financial transactions into application .

In one embodiment of the present invention user enters information about rewards associated with financial sources . In another embodiment of the present invention application automatically enters rewards based on information about financial sources . For example application can look up rewards associated with financial sources from a database.

In one embodiment of the present invention for a given financial transaction within financial transactions application analyzes the given financial transaction to determine financial benefits of using one or more subsets of financial sources to fulfill the given financial transaction. In doing so application selects a subset of financial sources to substantially maximize the financial benefits for the user. This process is described in more detail with reference to .

In one embodiment of the present invention application fulfills the given financial transaction using the selected subset of financial sources on behalf of user . In one embodiment application applies the subset of financial sources to pay a given payee. For example application can request that the subset of financial sources transfer funds to an account at financial institution for the given payee. In one embodiment funds are electronically transferred from the subset of financial sources to an account at the financial institution for the given payee through network .

Next the system analyzes the parameters to determine financial benefits of using one or more subsets of financial sources from a set of financial sources associated with the user to fulfill the financial transaction step . Note that step is described in more detail with reference to . The system then selects a subset of financial sources which substantially maximizes the financial benefits for the user step and uses the selected subset of financial sources to fulfill the financial transaction on behalf of the user step .

In one embodiment of the present invention prior to calculating the financial benefit of the financial source the system calculates the value of the one or more rewards for the financial source in terms of a base unit. In one embodiment the base unit is a unit of currency. For example if a credit card gives 3 cash back for all purchases the reward can be expressed as 0.03.

In one embodiment of the present invention the system receives an indication of one or more preferred financial sources within the set of financial sources. The system then adjusts the financial benefit of each financial source within the set of financial sources so that the one or more preferred financial sources are valued more highly than other financial sources within the set of financial sources. For example if a user prefers to earn travel rewards the system values financial sources which give travel rewards higher than other financial sources.

In one embodiment the system generates a report for the user which identifies the selected subset of financial sources and indicates the financial benefits of using the selected subset of financial sources. For example the report can include the amount paid the financial sources used and a summary of the rewards earned by using the subset of financial sources.

In one embodiment the system notifies the user of other financial sources which can provide a greater financial benefit than the financial benefits provided by set of financial sources already associated with the user. For example if a financial source which is not associated with the user provides more rewards than the user s existing financial sources the system notifies the user of the other financial source.

The foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been presented only for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the forms disclosed. Accordingly many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. Additionally the above disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

