---

title: Routing operations using sensor data
abstract: In one embodiment, a method comprises an Internet Protocol (IP) router receiving sensor data from at least one of a second IP router or an attached host sensor node, the sensor data distinct from link data of a network link; the IP router generating sensor information based on storing the sensor data with metadata describing reception of the sensor data by the IP router in a routing information base; and the IP router executing a routing operation based on the sensor information stored in the routing information base.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08228954&OS=08228954&RS=08228954
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08228954
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071113
---
The present disclosure generally relates to using an Internet Protocol IP network for reception and transport of sensor data from sensor host nodes in a sensor network.

Sensor networks enable sensor data from remote sensors to be transported within data packets to a destination controller for example an executable application configured for monitoring the sensor data. The remote sensors e.g. video cameras weather sensors etc. can be implemented as sensor host nodes configured for forming a layer 2 wireless mesh network configured for reaching the destination controller based on relaying or flooding sensor data throughout the mesh network i.e. gossiping . Centimeter sized or smaller sensor host nodes referred to as sensor dust have limited battery life and therefore are limited in their ability in relaying data packets from other sensor host nodes throughout the wireless mesh network. Mobile routers also can be deployed to form the mesh network enabling the sensor host nodes to be implemented for example as wireless IPv6 host nodes. Hence the mobile routers forming the mesh network can serve as default gateways for the sensor host nodes enabling transport of the data packets transmitted by the sensor host nodes and carrying the sensor data to the destination controller via the mesh network.

The Internet Engineering Task Force IETF also has a working group entitled IPv6 over Low power Wireless Personal Area Networks 6loWPAN investigating IPv6 transport of sensor data from sensor host nodes in a sensor network implemented for example using a Personal Area Network PAN such as an IEEE 802.15.4 network.

In one embodiment a method comprises an Internet Protocol IP router receiving sensor data from at least one of a second IP router or an attached host sensor node the sensor data distinct from link data of a network link the IP router generating sensor information based on storing the sensor data with metadata describing reception of the sensor data by the IP router in a routing information base and the IP router executing a routing operation based on the sensor information stored in the routing information base.

In another embodiment an apparatus comprises an Internet Protocol IP network interface circuit a memory circuit and a routing circuit. The IP network interface is configured for receiving sensor data from at least one of an IP advertisement message from an IP router or an attached host sensor node the sensor data distinct from link data of a network link. The memory circuit is configured for storing a routing information base. The routing circuit is configured for generating sensor information based on storing into the routing information base the sensor data with metadata describing reception of the sensor data by the apparatus the routing circuit configured for executing a routing operation based on the sensor information stored in the routing information base.

Particular embodiments extend the capabilities of routers configured for relying on existing routing protocols for exchanging metrics that are used in order to compute routes through an autonomous system for example a wide area network. Such routers can be configured to receive sensor data from a sensor network store the sensor data within their respective routing information bases e.g. routing tables and execute routing operations based on the sensor data stored in the routing information base.

Routing operations can be performed using the sensor data stored in the routing information base based on metadata that is generated by the router and that describes attributes of the received sensor data including attributes describing reception of the sensor data e.g. identifying the network node having transmitted the sensor data to the router date and time of reception identity and or location of the router having received the sensor data etc. . Additional attributes can be added to the metadata to more precisely describe the context of the received sensor data for example an identifier of the source sensor network if multiple sensor networks are implemented a Personal Area Network PAN identifier if one or more personal area networks are implemented for transport of the sensor data etc. Additional attributes that can be added to the metadata include different indexes that can be used by the router in sorting the sensor data stored in the routing information base. Applying information theory and information science such attributes provide context and structure to the received sensor data resulting in sensor information . Hence the metadata that describes the context of the received sensor data including reception of the sensor data by the router also enables the context of the received sensor data to be structured according to prescribed criteria such that the metadata applied to the corresponding sensor data can create sensor information that can be used for implementing routing operations described below.

An example routing operation that can be performed by a router includes distributing the sensor information including the sensor data and the associated metadata i.e. information metadata among other routers according to existing routing protocols or according to a layer 4 distribution protocol. Hence the distribution of sensor information among the routers based on database synchronization of the respective routing information bases RIBs enables the network implemented by the routers to serve as a distributed database for sensor applications that need to access the sensor information. Hence a sensor application executed on a network node can obtain the sensor information from the nearest router of the network as opposed to requiring a query from the sensor application to traverse the network in order to reach a specific gateway configured for collecting all of the sensor data within the sensor network.

Another example routing operation that can be performed by a router includes executing constrained routing where a constrained routing path to a destination is generated such that a first path for reaching the destination is chosen if relevant sensor information identifies a first attribute e.g. low wind conditions or a second path for reaching the destination is chosen if the relevant sensor information identifies a second attribute e.g. high wind conditions . Hence constrained routing paths can be generated and implemented based on the sensor information generated from the received sensor data. Such constrained routing paths can be used as the basis for establishing a multi topology routing based on the sensor information.

Distribution of routing information between routers according to a prescribed routing protocol providing synchronization of routing information e.g. Open Shortest Path First OSPF Intermediate System to Intermediate System IS IS enables each of the routers to generate a graph of the network topology and perform route computation based on calculating path costs and the network topology in order to generate optimized paths. The prescribed routing protocol e.g. OSPF IS IS also can be used for distribution of the sensor information among other routers based on forwarding the sensor data and associated information metadata as data that is opaque to the prescribed routing protocol hence the prescribed routing protocol can be used to provide synchronization of the sensor information. Further each of the routers can be configured for accumulating the sensor information over time enabling the routers to establish an evolution of the sensor data relative to a prescribed evolution domain e.g. time or constrained lifetime geographic distribution network growth distribution . Hence each of the routers can be configured for executing statistical or optimization operations relative to different evolution domains resulting in each router capable of generating knowledge metadata that describes the evolution of the sensor information generated by the IP router and received from other routers via database synchronization resulting in the formation of sensor knowledge that uses the knowledge metadata to provide the interpretation of the relevant sensor information.

The data acquisition routers can be implemented as mobile ad hoc network MANET routers configured for receiving the sensor data via the appropriate link layer protocol utilized by the wireless data links . The data acquisition routers also can be configured with multiple distinct link interfaces that enable the data acquisition routers to receive sensor data from different groups of sensors and across respective link layer domains for example different wireless channels different link layer protocols different sensor services etc. The data acquisition routers also can be configured for forwarding the received sensor data via IPv6 packets over IP based data links . Hence the data acquisition routers can serve as the ingress edge to an IP network and can inject the sensor data received via the wireless sensor data links into the IP network via IP data links without any modification to the received sensor data.

The sensor network also can include aggregating routers that can be configured for aggregating the received sensor data into aggregated sensor data and outputting the aggregated sensor data into the knowledge backbone network via an IP data link . The aggregating routers can implement a tree topology that enables the sensor data to be aggregated in order to minimize the number of IP data packets that need to be transmitted to the knowledge backbone network .

An example of aggregating routers utilizing a tree topology for aggregation of sensor data is described in commonly assigned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 862 845 filed Sep. 27 2007 entitled Aggregation and Propagation of Sensor Data Within Neighbor Discovery Messages in a Tree Based Ad Hoc Network published Apr. 2 2009 as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009 0085769. In summary this copending application Ser. No. 11 862 845 describes mobile routers that can establish a wireless ad hoc mobile network having a tree based topology and that can output neighbor advertisement messages toward the root i.e. clusterhead of the tree based topology. The neighbor advertisement messages can specify aggregated network prefix reachability information as described in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0265259 published Dec. 1 2005 entitled Arrangement for Providing Network Prefix Information from Attached Mobile Routers to a Clusterhead in a Tree based Ad Hoc Mobile Network . The neighbor advertisement messages also can specify aggregated sensor data based on an aggregation of received sensor data messages from attached sensor host nodes. If a given mobile router is an intermediate mobile router that serves as a default attachment router for at least one attached mobile router the intermediate mobile router can generate its aggregated sensor data based on an aggregation of the received sensor data messages from attached sensor host nodes plus received aggregated sensor data retrieved by the intermediate mobile router from a received neighbor advertisement message.

Hence the mobile routers described in this copending application Ser. No. 11 862 845 can propagate aggregated sensor data toward the clusterhead using neighbor advertisement messages that are relied upon for propagation of network reachability information within the tree based ad hoc mobile network. Consequently wireless network traffic can be dramatically reduced by multiple orders of magnitude based on implementing a tree based wireless ad hoc mobile network the tree based wireless ad hoc mobile network enables each sensor host node to send its sensor data to a single attachment mobile router eliminating the necessity of relaying data packets from sensor host nodes throughout a mesh network. Further aggregation of sensor data by each mobile router can minimize data traffic for sensor data based on adding the aggregated sensor data within neighbor advertisement messages that are required for maintaining reachability within the tree based wireless ad hoc mobile network eliminating the necessity of continuous transport of data packets carrying sensor data from sensor host nodes throughout the tree based wireless ad hoc mobile network.

Consequently the mobile routers described in this copending application Ser. No. 11 862 845 can be used to implement the aggregating routers of . Hence the aggregating routers can output an IP based neighbor advertisement message that includes the aggregated sensor data as described in the above identified copending application Ser. No. 11 862 845 where the clusterhead is replaced with the nearest knowledge router that receives the IP based neighbor advertisement message via the corresponding IP data link .

Hence a scalable sensor network can be implemented that utilizes data acquisition routers for receiving sensor data from host sensor nodes via various link layer protocols and aggregating routers that aggregate the sensor data into aggregated sensor data that can be supplied to a knowledge router within the knowledge backbone network in a scalable manner. A smaller scale implementation of the sensor network also can be utilized where a knowledge router also can be configured for directly receiving sensor data via an IPv6 packet transmitted by a sensor host node attached to the knowledge router via an attachment link .

The knowledge backbone network includes multiple IP based knowledge routers that can be configured for receiving aggregated sensor data from the received neighbor advertisement message described in the above identified copending application Ser. No. 11 862 845 and or receiving sensor data from an IPv6 packet received from an attached sensor host node . As described below the knowledge routers can be configured to enable the knowledge backbone network to supply desired sensor knowledge to a sensor application based on synchronization of stored sensor information among the knowledge routers according to a prescribed routing protocol e.g. OSPF or IS IS or according to a layer 4 distribution protocol and generating the sensor knowledge based on generating knowledge metadata describing evolution of the sensor information relative to a prescribed evolution domain. Hence the knowledge backbone network can be considered an area according to OSPF protocol alternatively the knowledge routers can be considered as Level 2 routers according to IS IS protocol.

As illustrated with respect to the sensor data illustrated as a sensor data element that can be contained within the neighbor advertisement message or the IPv6 data packet can include one or more data values representing raw sensor data aggregated sensor data or both. The term sensor data refers to data having originated from a physical sensor measuring a physical parameter where the physical parameter is distinct from data link information that is required for establishment and maintenance of a data link. Hence the term sensor data can refer to either raw sensor data generated by the physical sensor e.g. a single temperature measurement value a single air pressure measurement value a single wind speed management value a single humidity value etc. or an accumulation aggregation or statistical evaluation of raw sensor data. As illustrated in the sensor data within the sensor data element can include an aggregation of values for multiple sensor types including average minimum and maximum values each for a temperature aggregation an air pressure aggregation a wind speed aggregation a humidity aggregation and an Air Quality Index AQI aggregation . Sensor data related to other physical dimensions also can be included in the sensor data element except that these physical dimensions must be distinct from existing data link parameters required for establishment and maintenance of a data link and otherwise utilized for existing routing protocols hence data link parameters such as the bit error rate received signal strength indicator RSSI link speed e.g. 10 Mbits sec. 54 Mbit sec 100 Mbit s and network parameters for existing routing protocols e.g. hop count bandwidth utilization etc. are distinct from sensor data .

Any one of the knowledge routers of can be configured for receiving sensor data in the form of raw data or accumulated data e.g. the sensor data element either from a received neighbor advertisement message from an aggregating router or from a received IPv6 data packet from an attached sensor host node . If preferred any one of the knowledge routers also can be configured for receiving sensor data from a data acquisition router . As illustrated in each of the knowledge routers also can be configured for generating sensor information based on generating information metadata describing reception of the corresponding sensor data by the corresponding knowledge router and storing the sensor information including the sensor data and the corresponding information metadata into its routing information base RIB .

The routing circuit can be configured for generating the sensor information illustrated in based on generating the metadata associated with the corresponding received sensor data and storing the sensor information into the routing information base as a sensor information entry described in further detail below.

Any of the disclosed circuits of the knowledge routers including the network interface circuit the routing circuit and the memory circuit and their associated components can be implemented in multiple forms. Example implementations of the disclosed circuits include hardware logic that is implemented in a logic array such as a programmable logic array PLA a field programmable gate array FPGA or by mask programming of integrated circuits such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Any of these circuits also can be implemented using a software based executable resource that is executed by a corresponding internal processor circuit such as a microprocessor circuit not shown where execution of executable code stored in an internal memory circuit e.g. within the memory circuit causes the processor circuit to store application state variables in processor memory creating an executable application resource e.g. an application instance that performs the operations of the circuit as described herein. Hence use of the term circuit in this specification refers to both a hardware based circuit that includes logic for performing the described operations or a software based circuit that includes a reserved portion of processor memory for storage of application state data and application variables that are modified by execution of the executable code by a processor. The memory circuit can be implemented for example using a non volatile memory such as a programmable read only memory PROM or an EPROM and or a volatile memory such as a DRAM etc.

Further any reference to outputting a message or outputting a packet can be implemented based on creating the message packet in the form of a data structure and storing that data structure in a tangible memory medium in the disclosed apparatus e.g. in a transmit buffer . Any reference to outputting a message or outputting a packet also can include electrically transmitting e.g. via wired electric current or wireless electric field as appropriate the message packet stored in the tangible memory medium to another network node via a communications medium e.g. a wired or wireless link as appropriate optical transmission also can be used as appropriate . Similarly any reference to receiving a message or receiving a packet can be implemented based on the disclosed apparatus detecting the electrical or optical transmission of the message packet on the communications medium and storing the detected transmission as a data structure in a tangible memory medium in the disclosed apparatus e.g. in a receive buffer .

Also note that the memory circuit can be implemented dynamically by the routing circuit for example based on memory address assignment and partitioning executed by the routing circuit .

As illustrated in the ingress port of a knowledge router can receive in step sensor data e.g. raw sensor data and or aggregated sensor data for example from an attached host sensor node or an aggregating router . The routing circuit can generate in step sensor information by generating information metadata that describes the context of the received sensor data . As illustrated in the information metadata can include context information describing the reception of the sensor data e.g. SD by the corresponding knowledge router . For example the context information described by the information metadata can include a time value e.g. T indicating the time that the corresponding sensor data element was received by the corresponding knowledge router an origin identifier e.g. S that identifies the network node e.g. Aggregating Router AR having transmitted the sensor data to the knowledge router source information e.g. R that identifies the knowledge router having stored the corresponding received sensor data in its corresponding routing information base and a lifetime information e.g. L identifying a lifetime of the corresponding sensor data SD . Hence the time value identifies the relative age of the sensor data SD the origin identifier identifies the network node having transmitted the sensor data SD into the knowledge backbone network the source information identifies the original or source knowledge router that sources the corresponding sensor data SD into the knowledge backbone network and the lifetime information identifies the lifetime or life span of the corresponding sensor data SD .

Hence the metadata can specify attributes describing reception of the sensor data SD by the knowledge router enabling the context of the sensor data to be preserved as the sensor data is propagated through database synchronization to other knowledge routers . As described previously other attributes can be added to the information metadata that describe the context of the received sensor data for example an identifier of the source sensor network a PAN identifier an information service provider identifier e.g. if sensor data is being provided by multiple service providers or other relevant environmental or political information associated with reception of the sensor data e.g. declaration of a tropical storm warning hurricane watch hurricane warning flood watch flood warning a declared disaster area due to weather events etc. .

As illustrated in the routing circuit adds in step the sensor information element including the corresponding sensor data and the corresponding information metadata as a sensor information entry into the routing information base . As illustrated in the sensor information entry can be implemented in various forms based on indexing preferences that may be implemented by the routing circuit . For example illustrates that the routing circuit can index the sensor information entries based on source information e.g. R R R . . . that identifies the source knowledge router having injected the corresponding sensor information element into the knowledge backbone network .

Hence the routing information base can include all routing information that is used under existing routing protocols for establishing routes within the knowledge backbone network based on synchronization of the link state entries and the sensor information entries among the knowledge routers according to a prescribed routing protocol.

According to one example implementation the routing information base can be implemented based on storing the link state entries in a first link state database that is synchronized among the knowledge routers by a first OSPFv3 instance and storing the sensor information entries and the knowledge metadata entries as appropriate in a data knowledge database DKDB distinct from the first link state database where the DKDB can be synchronized among the knowledge routers by a second OSPFv3 instance distinct from the first OSPFv3 instance. Hence in this example implementation the routing circuit can execute multiple OSPFv3 instances.

As described in further detail below with respect to the routing circuit can execute in step of various routing operations based on the sensor information stored in the routing information base in the form of sensor information entries .

Consequently a routing circuit receiving in step a routing protocol message e.g. a received link state advertisement LSA message or hello message specifying sensor information in the form of a sensor information element or a sensor information entry can determine in step whether to save the received sensor information or based on the corresponding lifetime value or based on determining whether the sensor information specifies a source knowledge router from the source information that exceeds a prescribed scope e.g. if the sensor information is from a knowledge router that exceeds a prescribed number of hops . If in step the routing circuit determines that the lifetime of the sensor information or has expired or that the sensor information has exceeded its scope based on exceeding the prescribed number of hops the routing circuit can selectively discard the undesired sensor information.

Assuming the routing circuit determines in steps and that the received sensor information or includes relevant information within its lifetime and within the relevant scope the routing circuit can update in step its routing information base with a new sensor information entry and continue the database synchronization based on outputting in step a link state advertisement message or hello message with its updated sensor entries to a neighboring router for example according to OSPFv3 protocol.

Following any change in the link state entries or the sensor information entries in its routing information base the routing circuit can update its network graph and routing tables and generate and or update in step knowledge metadata entries illustrated in . As described previously knowledge metadata describes the evolution of the sensor information entries generated by the IP router and received from other routers via database synchronization . Each of the knowledge metadata entries describes a corresponding evolution of the stored sensor information entries as the sensor information entries are accumulated over time the evolution can refer to changes detected in the sensor information entries relative to a prescribed evolution domain where each evolution domain can identify at least one independent variable or dimension used to identify relevant changes in the sensor information. For example the geographic distribution knowledge metadata can represent an indexing of change in the sensor information entries relative to a change in geographic distribution or distance from a reference origin where sensor information can be evaluated with respect to geography or topography or movement relative to a reference origin e.g. measuring changes in sensor information by a mobile network as it moves further from a reference origin the lifetime distribution knowledge metadata can represent an indexing of change in the sensor information entries over time for example comparing short term or long term changes in the sensor information the directional distribution knowledge metadata can represent an indexing of change relative to a sensor angle for example in the case of radar based sensor information or navigation based sensor information requiring an orientation relative to a prescribed coordinate system the network growth distribution knowledge metadata can represent evolution of the sensor information as the network grows for example indexed by the number of aggregating routers in the sensor network or the number of knowledge routers in the knowledge backbone network . Other examples of knowledge metadata can include indexing information for generating metric paths or gradients for example isometric paths or maximum gradient paths to identify maximum or minimum changes in the distribution of values for example in the case of maximum temperature gradient paths for a given geographic area.

Hence the generation and storage by the routing circuit of the knowledge metadata entries enables the routing circuit to generate sensor knowledge based on generating the knowledge metadata entries in step and storing the knowledge metadata entries in the routing information base .

Consequently the sensor knowledge represented by the knowledge metadata entries overlying the sensor information entries enables the routing circuit to generate intelligent database responses to the sensor application of . For example the routing circuit can output in step selected sensor knowledge to the sensor application in response to detecting a prescribed event. In particular in response to the corresponding egress port receiving in step of a Publish Subscribe rule from the sensor application the routing circuit can install in step the Publish Subscribe rule to enable the routing circuit to determine e.g. for each update of the sensor information entries in step whether the sensor information matches the Publish Subscribe rule relative to a relevant knowledge metadata entry . An example event detected in step can be detecting a new record high temperature when the Air Quality Index AQI is determined to be in an unhealthy range. Hence the routing circuit in response to detecting in step the prescribed event that is defined by the Publish Subscribe rule supplied by the sensor application can output in step the desired sensor knowledge to the sensor application .

The routing circuit also can be configured for utilizing the knowledge metadata and or the information metadata in order to respond in step to queries from the sensor application . As described previously since all the sensor information entries are synchronized among the routing information bases of the knowledge routers the knowledge backbone network can serve as persistent storage of the sensor information in the sensor information entries enabling the sensor application to send a query to the nearest knowledge router .

The routing circuit can be configured for responding to queries to accommodate the relative complexity of the query . For example the query can be a retrieval request for sensor information or entries satisfying prescribed metadata criteria e.g. sensor information added after a specified time or date or sensor information added by a specified origin or source knowledge router . Additional database indexing can be applied to the stored sensor information either by the routing circuit e.g. the knowledge metadata or by an external database system and stored within the routing information base enabling the persistent storage of the routing information base distributed among the knowledge routers to serve as a distributed database. Hence the query also can be an intelligent database query according to known database query protocols enabling the routing circuit to respond to intelligent database queries. Other indexing schemes overlying the sensor information entries and or the knowledge metadata entries can be built by external applications e.g. database applications and stored in the routing information base for use by the routing circuit in responding to database queries .

The routing circuit also can respond to queries for example based on publication of a prescribed set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs executed by the routing circuit . Hence the APIs can be utilized by the sensor application in generating queries or procedure calls to the API interface published by the knowledge router . The routing circuit also can be configured for responding to Layer distribution protocol queries. Consequently the persistent stored sensor information as well as the distributed database enables the sensor information and or distributed database to be presented as a front end interface that can be shared between sensor applications and or database applications without the necessity of requesting the data from a database server.

Hence in response to the egress port receiving in step a query e.g. an intelligent database query the routing circuit can respond to the query by searching in step its routing information base using the appropriate information metadata and or knowledge metadata and other indexes added to the routing information base by an external database application in order to provide the desired sensor information and or sensor knowledge . Example sensor knowledge can be identifying peak daily temperatures within the last week that exceeded a historical average temperature for the relevant month with approximate locations of the peak temperatures identified by the attribute identifying the source knowledge router .

Another example routing operation that can be performed by the routing circuit includes executing constrained routing in step . For example the routing circuit can be configured for generating in step a first path P for reaching a destination e.g. sensor application if selected sensor information e.g. WIND is below a first threshold e.g. 20 miles per hour mph indicating a low wind condition and a second path P for reaching the destination if the selected sensor information e.g. WIND exceeds the first threshold e.g. 20 mph indicating a high wind condition. The routing circuit can store in step the constrained paths P and P in its routing table for use in routing in step a received packet based on selecting one of the paths P or P based on whether the relevant sensor information identifies that the corresponding detected sensor metric is below the threshold of 20 mph or exceeds the threshold of 20 mph. In this example use of a constrained routing path based on wind can be particularly beneficial for paths that can utilize laser transceivers for establishing a fiber less laser link i.e. over the air such a laser link however can be unreliable in windy conditions due to movement of the laser transceivers or weather conditions that reduce the propagation capabilities of the laser link for example rain snow or fog. Hence the constrained paths can enable use of the laser link e.g. P for high bandwidth transmissions during ideal weather conditions reserving use of the alternate lower throughput path e.g. P during adverse weather conditions that are detected and based on the sensor information stored in the routing information base .

As described previously another example routing operation executed by the routing circuit can be deletion of a stale sensor information entry in step in response to detecting that the corresponding lifetime attribute has expired. Deletion of the stale entry can be followed by updating the knowledge metadata in step or performing a database sync operation in step if preferred.

According to the example embodiments routers can store received sensor data and associated metadata describing reception of the sensor data by the IP router and synchronize routing information bases to enable the network to serve as a distributed database for sensor applications. Advanced database query operations can be executed by the routers on behalf of sensor applications based on the routers having established sensor knowledge based on generating knowledge metadata describing the evolution of the sensor information. The sensor information also can be distributed using existing routing protocols based on supplying the sensor information as opaque data relative to the routing protocols. Storage of the sensor data and the associated information metadata in the routing information base also enables the routing circuit to generate knowledge metadata that can be used either for responding to database queries or generating constrained routes that optimize routing of data packets based on sensor data that is distinct from existing network layer and link layer parameters.

While the example embodiments in the present disclosure have been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the best mode for carrying out the subject matter specified in the appended claims it is to be understood that the example embodiments are only illustrative and are not to restrict the subject matter specified in the appended claims.

