---

title: Latch circuits and operation circuits having scalable nonvolatile nanotube switches as electronic fuse replacement elements
abstract: A non-volatile latch circuit is provided. The non-volatile latch circuit includes a nanotube switching element capable of switching between resistance states and non-volatilely retaining the resistance state. The non-volatile latch circuit includes a volatile latch circuit is capable of receiving and volatilely storing a logic state. When the nanotube switching element is a resistance state, the volatile latch circuit retains a corresponding logic state and outputs that corresponding logic state at an output terminal. A non-volatile register file configuration circuit for use with a plurality of non-volatile register files is also provided. The non-volatile register file configuration circuit includes a selection circuitry and a plurality of nanotube fuse elements, each in electrical communication with one of a plurality of non-volatile register files. The selection circuitry is capable of applying electrical stimulus to each of the selected nanotube fuse elements to selectively bypass the corresponding register file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08008745&OS=08008745&RS=08008745
owner: Nantero, Inc.
number: 08008745
owner_city: Woburn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070808
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of the following applications the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 836 343 entitled Scalable Nonvolatile Nanotube Switches as Electronic Fuse Replacement Elements filed on Aug. 8 2006 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 836 437 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diode filed on Aug. 8 2006 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 840 586 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diode filed on Aug. 28 2006 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 855 109 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Cubes filed on Oct. 27 2006 and

U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 918 388 entitled Memory Elements and Cross Point Switches and Arrays of Same Using Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks filed on Mar. 16 2007.

This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to the following applications the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786 entitled Two Terminal Nanotube Devices And Systems And Methods Of Making Same filed Nov. 15 2005 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 274 967 entitled Memory Arrays Using Nanotube Articles With Reprogrammable Resistance filed Nov. 15 2005 and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 599 entitled Non Volatile Shadow Latch Using A Nanotube Switch filed Nov. 15 2005.

This application is related to the following applications the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 612 entitled Nonvolatile Resistive Memories Having Scalable Two terminal Nanotube Switches filed concurrently herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 613 entitled Memory Elements and Cross Point Switches and Arrays of Same Using Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks filed concurrently herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 651 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diodes and Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks and Systems Using Same and Methods of Making Same filed concurrently herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 759 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diodes and Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks and Systems Using Same and Methods of Making Same filed concurrently herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 845 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diodes and Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks and Systems Using Same and Methods of Making Same filed concurrently herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 852 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diodes and Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks and Systems Using Same and Methods of Making Same filed concurrently herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 856 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diodes and Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks and Systems Using Same and Methods of Making Same filed concurrently herewith and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 865 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diodes and Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks and Systems Using Same and Methods of Making Same filed concurrently herewith.

The semiconductor industry uses fuses or antifuses for nonvolatile storage of a logic state. The nonvolatile resistive state of a fuse or antifuse in a conducting state or non conducting state is used to indicate a first or second logical state. The latch circuit converts the fuse or antifuse nonvolatile resistive state into a corresponding electrical voltage level indicative of a logical 1 or 0.

In one type of fuse sometimes referred to as a laser fuse a fuse element is formed of metallic or polysilicon material. The fuse is programmed blown or made nonconducting by laser ablation and a corresponding latch circuit reads the nonvolatile state of the fuse as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 345 110 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The semiconductor industry has been replacing laser fuses with more flexible and denser electrically programmable fuse e fuse elements however e fuses typically require programming currents in the milli Ampere range and are difficult to scale to smaller physical dimensions and lower programming current levels for new denser technology nodes such as 90 nm 65 nm 45 nm and denser.

The semiconductor industry has also replaced laser fuses with more flexible and denser electrically programmable antifuse a fuse elements. Antifuses reduce programming currents to the low micro Ampere range such as 1 10 uA for example however programming voltages are typically in the 8 to 12 volt range. Antifuses are difficult to scale to smaller physical dimensions and lower programming voltage levels for new denser technology nodes. Latches using fuses and antifuses are illustrated in Bertin et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 806 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

It would be desirable to provide a scalable element that may be used as a fuse or as an antifuse or as both fuse and antifuse or an element able to toggle between fuse and antifuse multiple times or more generally between ON and OFF states multiple times and corresponding latch circuits that integrates easily with silicon technology is scalable to smaller physical dimensions programs using low current values in nano Ampere or low micro Ampere range and is scalable to lower programming voltage of 5 volts and below.

In certain applications it would be desirable to provide a scalable element that may be used to switch between ON and OFF states to select or deselect bypass register file stages in a series of register files. If such a scalable element is used as a fuse a corresponding register file stage may be delected bypassed to eliminate a defective register file stage from a series.

In certain applications it would also be desirable to provide a scalable element that may be used to switch between ON and OFF states to provide informational states in a memory cell. Further in other applications a scalable element that may be used to switch among multiple conductivity states to provide multiple informational states in a memory cell may be desirable. Integrating such elements with existing memory technology would be further desirable. Existing commercially available technologies are generally either nonvolatile but not randomly accessible and have a low density high production cost and a limited ability to allow multiple writes with high reliability of the circuit s function or are volatile and have complicated system design or have a low density. An ideal non volatile memory for at least some purposes is one that enables the nonvolatile storage of multiple informational states where memory cells can be selectively activated and accurately programmed to an informational state.

The present invention provides scalable latch circuits nonvolatile memories and operation circuits based on nanofabric materials and scalable nonvolatile nanotube switches.

According to one aspect of the invention a non volatile latch circuit is provided. The non volatile latch circuit includes an input terminal capable of inputting a logic state an output terminal capable of outputting a logic state and a nanotube switching element having a nanotube fabric article disposed between and in electrical communication with two conductive contacts. The nanotube switching element is capable of switching between a relatively low resistance state and a relatively high resistance state and is capable of nonvolatilely retaining the relatively low or the relatively high resistance state. The non volatile latch circuit includes a volatile latch circuit having at least one semiconductive element electrically disposed between the input terminal and the nanotube switching element and is capable of receiving and volatilely storing a logic state inputted to the input terminal. When the nanotube switching element is in the relatively low resistance state the volatile latch circuit retains a first logic state and outputs the first logic state at the output terminal. When the nanotube switching element is in the relatively high resistance state the volatile latch circuit retains a second logic state outputted at the output terminal.

In one embodiment of the invention the electronic latch circuit includes an inverter circuit comprising a plurality of field effect transistors.

In another embodiment of the invention the nanotube switching element is capable of switching between the relatively low resistance state and the relatively high resistance state multiple times.

In another embodiment of the invention the electronic latch circuit converts the relatively low resistance state of the nanotube switching element to a relatively high voltage level corresponding to the first logic state outputted at the output terminal. The electronic latch circuit converts the relatively high resistance state of the nanotube switching element to a relatively low voltage level corresponding to the second logic state outputted at the output terminal.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile latch circuit is in electrical communication with a memory cell. When the non volatile latch circuit outputs the first logic state the memory cell is active and when the non volatile latch circuit outputs the second logic state the memory cell is inactive.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile latch circuit comprises a redundancy circuit for the memory cell and is capable of bypassing the memory cell when the memory cell is inoperable.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile latch circuit is in electrical communication with a memory cell and is capable of storing first and second memory states. The first memory state is inputted to the input terminal as a first logic state and is non volatilely retained and outputted by the non volatile latch circuit as the first logic state. The second memory state is inputted to the input terminal as a second logic state and is non volatilely retained and outputted by the non volatile latch circuit as a second logic state.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile latch circuit comprises a redundancy circuit for the memory cell and is capable of non volatilely retaining the first and the second logic state corresponding respectively to the first and the second memory state.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile latch circuit retains one of the first and the second logic states to correct for an error in the memory cell.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile latch circuit is in electrical communication with a memory circuit. The electrical stimulus inputted at the input terminal includes a time varying electrical stimulus. The electrical stimulus outputted at the output terminal includes a time varying electrical stimulus. The non volatile latch circuit controls operation of the memory circuit by creating a controllable delay between the time varying electrical stimulus at the input terminal and at the output terminal.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile latch circuit creates a controllable delay that includes a substantially bi modal signal with a substantially selected rise time and a substantially selected fall time.

In another embodiment of the invention the nanotube switching element comprises a one time programmable fuse capable of switching from only the relatively low resistance state to the relatively high resistance state.

According to another aspect of the invention a non volatile register file configuration circuit for use with a plurality of non volatile register files is provided. The non volatile register file configuration circuit includes an input voltage terminal a selection circuitry and a plurality of nanotube fuse elements in electrical communication with the input voltage terminal. Each nanotube fuse element is in electrical communication with one of the plurality of non volatile register files and with the selection circuitry. Each of the nanotube fuse elements includes a nanotube fabric article and two conductive contacts the nanotube fabric article disposed between and in electrical communication with the two conductive contacts. The nanotube fuse element is capable of switching from an on state to an off state the on state corresponding to a relatively low resistance between the first and second terminals and the off state corresponding to a relatively low resistance between the two conductive contacts in response to electrical stimulus. When the nanotube fuse element is in the on state the corresponding non volatile register file is active and responsive to electrical stimulus at the input voltage terminal. When the nanotube fuse element is in the off state the corresponding non volatile register file is inactive and not responsive to electrical stimulus at the input voltage terminal. The selection circuitry is capable of applying electrical stimulus to each of the selected nanotube fuse elements to selectively bypass the corresponding register file.

In another embodiment of the invention the selection circuit selectively bypasses one of the plurality of register files in response to the register file being defective.

In another embodiment of the invention when one of the plurality of nanotube fuse elements is in the on state the corresponding non volatile register file is capable of operating with a plurality of informational states in response to electrical stimuli at the input voltage terminal.

According to another aspect of the invention a non volatile memory includes a bit line a word line and at least one non volatile memory cell. Each memory cell has a two terminal nanotube switching device comprising first and second conductive terminals and a nanotube fabric article disposed between and in electrical communication with the first and second conductive terminals. Each memory cell also has a cell selection circuit in electrical communication with the bit line and the word line to select the two terminal nanotube switching device for read and write operations in response to activation of at least one of the bit line and the word line. The non volatile memory includes write control circuitry responsive to a control signal for supplying write signals to a selected memory cell to induce a change in the resistance of the nanotube fabric article so that the value of the resistance of the nanotube fabric article corresponds to an informational state of the memory cell. The non volatile memory includes resistance sensing circuitry in communication with a selected nonvolatile memory cell for sensing the resistance of the nanotube fabric article and providing the control signal to the write control circuitry. And the non volatile memory includes read circuitry in communication with a selected nonvolatile memory cell for reading the corresponding informational state of the memory cell.

In another embodiment of the invention the first conductive terminal of the nanotube switching device is in electrical communication with the cell selection circuit and the second conductive terminal of the nanotube switching device is in electrical communication with a reference voltage line.

In another embodiment of the invention the write control circuitry is in electrical communication with the bit line and the word line.

In another embodiment of the invention the first conductive terminal of the nanotube switching device receives the write signals supplied by the write control circuitry and the second conductive terminal of the nanotube switching device is in electrical communication with at least one of the word line and the bit line.

In another embodiment of the invention supplying write signals comprises supplying an electrical stimulus having a selected voltage.

In another embodiment of the invention supplying write signals comprises supplying an electrical stimulus having a selected current.

In another embodiment of the invention the nanotube switching element further comprises first and second insulator regions disposed on substantially opposite sides of the nanotube fabric article.

In another embodiment of the invention at least one of the first and second insulator regions includes a dielectric material.

In another embodiment of the invention at least a portion of the nanotube fabric article is separated from at least a portion of one of the first and second insulator regions by a gap.

In another embodiment of the invention the informational state of the memory cell is capable of being programmed and erased multiple times.

In another embodiment of the invention write control circuitry includes circuitry for writing at least three write signals each of the at least three write signals being a signal capable of inducing a corresponding resistance value in the nanotube fabric article that is different than the resistance values corresponding to the other write signals.

In another embodiment of the invention the corresponding resistance values induced by the at least three write signals include multiple low resistance values and one high resistance value.

In another embodiment of the invention the multiple low resistance values each are in the range of approximately one kilo Ohm to approximately one mega Ohm and wherein the high resistance value is at least one hundred mega Ohms.

In another embodiment of the invention the write control circuitry includes circuitry for writing four write signals so that the memory cell is capable of storing one of a first informational state a second informational state a third informational state and a fourth informational state.

In another embodiment of the invention the resistance sensing circuitry comprises feedback circuitry in electrical communication with the selected non volatile memory cell and with a reference resistance value the feedback circuitry capable of comparing the resistance of the nanotube fabric article of the selected non volatile memory cell to the reference resistance value and selectively blocking write signals to the selected non volatile memory cell.

In another embodiment of the invention the value of the resistance of the nanotube fabric article is selected from one of a relatively low resistance value and a relatively high resistance value.

In another embodiment of the invention the relatively low resistance value corresponds to a first informational state and the relatively high resistance value corresponds to a second informational state.

In another embodiment of the invention supplying write signals comprises supplying a plurality of sequential incrementally varying voltage pulses at selected intervals.

In another embodiment of the invention the feedback circuitry senses the resistance of the nanotube fabric article and compares the resistance of the nanotube fabric article to the reference resistance value after each voltage pulse is supplied by the write control circuitry.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile memory is capable of a first write operation in which the voltage pulses are applied until the feedback circuitry senses a relatively low resistance value as the resistance of the nanotube fabric article and selectively blocks write signals.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile memory is capable of a second write operation in which the voltage pulses are applied until the feedback circuitry senses a relatively high resistance value as the resistance of the nanotube fabric article and selectively blocks write signals.

In another embodiment of the invention the nanotube switching element comprises a one time programmable nanotube fuse the nanotube fabric article capable of only switching from the relatively low resistance value to the relatively high resistance value.

In another embodiment of the invention the write control circuitry selects the reference resistance value from a range of resistance values.

In another embodiment of the invention the feedback circuitry selectively blocks write signals on the bit line to the nanotube switching device of the selected nonvolatile memory cell when the resistance value of the nanotube switching article is approximately equal to the reference resistance value.

In another embodiment of the invention the read circuitry includes a sense amplifier circuit and the resistance sensing circuitry is in electrical communication with the sense amplifier circuit and the resistance sensing circuitry is responsive to the sense amplifier circuit to provide the control signal to the write control circuitry to selectively stop the write control circuitry from supplying write signals to the selected nonvolatile memory cell.

In another embodiment of the invention the control signal provided by the sense amplifier circuitry to the resistance sensing circuitry selectively stops the write control circuitry from inducing a change in the resistance of the nanotube fabric article.

In another embodiment of the invention the value of the resistance of the nanotube fabric article is selected from one of a plurality of resistance values including multiple low resistance values and a relatively high resistance value.

In another embodiment of the invention supplying write signals includes supplying a plurality of sequential incrementally varying voltage pulses at selected intervals.

In another embodiment of the invention the sense amplifier circuit detects the resistance value of the nanotube fabric article after each voltage pulse is supplied by the write control circuitry.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile memory is capable of a first write operation wherein the voltage pulses are supplied to the selected non volatile memory cell until at least one of the multiple low resistance values is detected by the sense amplifier circuit.

In another embodiment of the invention when the sense amplifier circuit detects at least one of the multiple low resistance values in the selected memory cell the resistance sensing circuitry is responsive to the sense amplifier circuit to selectively stop the write control circuitry from writing the informational state of the selected memory cell.

In another embodiment of the invention the non volatile memory is capable of a second write operation wherein the voltage pulses are supplied to the selected non volatile memory cell until the relatively high resistance value is detected.

In another embodiment of the invention when the sense amplifier circuit detects the relatively high resistance value in the selected non volatile memory cell the resistance sensing circuitry is responsive to the sense amplifier circuit to selectively stop the write control circuitry from writing the informational state of the selected memory cell.

In another embodiment of the invention the nanotube switching element comprises a one time programmable nanotube fuse having a nanotube fabric article capable of only switching from a first resistance value to a second resistance value.

The present invention provides scalable latch circuits and memory cells based on nanofablic material and scalable nonvolatile nanotube switches.

The present invention also provides nonvolatile register files and more specifically nonvolatile register files formed by selecting a smaller subset of individual nonvolatile register file stages from a larger set that includes redundant stages for yield enhancement purposes.

The present invention also provides high speed asynchronous logic and synchronous logic and memory circuits in which clock timing and signal timing is improved using new scalable latch circuits based on nanofabric material and scalable nonvolatile nanotube switches for higher performance at higher yield.

It is often desirable for fuse latch circuits to be able to store a logic state indicative of the logical state of a corresponding fuse or antifuse so that when the latch is connected to other circuits it may provide programming information for other electronic circuits such as address relocation for redundant memory elements operating mode configuration to store a tracking code pertaining to manufacture date or other conditions for example. One such latch application is in the field of yield enhancement for nonvolatile register files.

Data inputs DI is supplied to the input of NV register file stage . The data output of stage drives the data input of NV register file stage and so on until the output of NV register file stage N drives the input of NV register file stage N. The output of NV register file stage N provides data output DO.

Nonvolatile register file operates in a synchronous mode with clock CLK supplied to each stage of the register file . Each stage of nonvolatile register file includes a volatile master latch that drives a nonvolatile slave latch in which the nonvolatile slave latch includes a volatile latch and a corresponding coupled nonvolatile nanotube switch for storing the latch logic state in a nonvolatile mode when power is removed or lost. The logical state at the time power is removed or lost is restored prior to resuming register file operation. Register file operates in a normal volatile mode at full speed and at voltage levels Vcorresponding to the selected technology node. Vmay be 1.5 to 2.5 volts for example. Clock frequencies may be in 1 to 10 GHz range or more for example.

If a portion of the chip including nonvolatile register file is to be de powered power supply is removed or lost then data the logic state from the volatile portion of each stage of nonvolatile register file may be transferred to a nonvolatile nanotube switch as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 599. Clock CLK is stopped then operating mode pulses are used to save the state of each latch in a corresponding nonvolatile nanotube switch just prior to power shut down. Next power may be removed from nonvolatile register file and associated logic and memory circuits.

If normal register file operation is to be restored then the portion of the chip that has been de powered or the entire chip if all power is removed or lost is then re powered. Next operating mode pulses may be used to transfer data logic state of each nonvolatile nanotube switch to its corresponding nonvolatile register file stage of nonvolatile register file as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 599. Next clock CLK is started and high speed operation begins. Program modes such as erase program and read are described in patent application Ser. No. 11 280 599. Nonvolatile nanotube switch fabrication integration into semiconductor processes electrical characteristics and operating modes and operating conditions are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786.

Nonvolatile register file stage has two modes of operation a normal run mode and a zero power logic state or data state nonvolatile retention mode in which power may be disconnected. Volatile master latch stage circuit and volatile slave latch stage circuit form one stage of a register file stage circuit that may also be referred to as an LSSD register stage.

As illustrated in input node of volatile master latch stage circuit receives data input signal DI and drives CMOS transfer gate which is connected to and drives storage node formed by cross coupled CMOS inverters and . CMOS transfer gate uses both NMOS and PMOS devices instead of an NMOS only transfer gate for example to ensure that both logic 1 and logic 0 states transition between full power supply and ground voltage levels by eliminating device threshold voltage drops. Clock CLK and complementary clock CLKb are used to enable or block input signal DI on input node from driving storage node by turning CMOS transfer gate N and OFF thereby determining the logic storage state of cross coupled CMOS inverters and . Note that the inverters in the present illustration are CMOS inverters unless otherwise specified. CMOS inverters include a PMOS pull up device connected to a power supply and a NMOS pull down device connected to ground and operates as discussed in the reference by H. B. Bakoglu Circuits Interconnections and Packaging for VLSI Addison Wesley Publishing Company Inc 1990 pp. 152 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Cross coupled inverters and drive storage node which is connected to CMOS transfer gate . Clock CLK and complementary clock CLKb are used to enable or block stored logic state node from driving slave latch stage circuit input node by turning CMOS transfer gate N and OFF.

As illustrated in input node of volatile slave latch stage circuit which is also the output node of master latch stage circuit drives inverter . The output of inverter is data output signal DO on output node and also drives the input of inverter . The output of inverter is connected to CMOS transfer gate . Clock CLK and complementary clock CLKb are used to enable or block the presence of a feedback loop that cross couples inverters and when enabled. During normal high speed operation clock CLK switches at high speed 3 GHz clock rate for example for the 130 nm CMOS technology node. Inverter produces the complement CLKb or the complement of RESTORE ENABLE. When storing data CMOS transfer gate is ON and inverters and form a cross coupled storage device with node acting as a storage node. When CMOS transfer gate is OFF then inverters and are not cross coupled and do not form a storage device. Slave latch stage circuit is coupled to nonvolatile nanotube switch by coupling circuit .

As illustrated in nonvolatile nanotube switch is connected to power supply voltage V which supplies erase voltage pulse or pulses corresponding to the operating mode selected using coupling circuit . Nonvolatile nanotube switch is also connected to node of coupling circuit using electrical connection . Coupling circuit is connected to volatile slave latch stage circuit where electrical connections and connected to nodes and respectively are used in program mode and electrical connection is used in restore mode.

As illustrated in coupling circuit includes an erase function. The erase circuit includes NMOS transistor with drain connected to common node source connected to ground and input gate connected to an erase enabling pulse. During an erase operation transistor is activated by a program enable pulse at zero volts and common node is connected to common node which is connected to nonvolatile nanotube switch in order to enable an erase operation

As illustrated in coupling circuit also includes a programming function including PMOS transistor with drain connected to common node source connected to common node and gate connected to output of inverter with the input of inverter connected to a program enable input. Common node is connected to cross coupled NMOS transistors and and PMOS transistors and forming high voltage translation circuit . The sources of NMOS transistors and are connected to ground and the sources of PMOS transistors and are connected to program voltage V. Complementary inputs and are connected to high voltage translator circuit input NMOS transistor and NMOS respectively such that the logic state of high voltage translator circuit corresponds to the state of volatile slave latch stage . Vvoltage may be much higher than volatile slave latch stage voltage circuit . Programming voltage is applied to common node through PMOS transistor which is in turn applied to common node and nonvolatile nanotube switch through PMOS transistor . If common node is held at ground by NMOS transistor then no programming voltage is applied to common node and nonvolatile nanotube switch is not programmed.

As illustrated in coupling circuit also includes a restore function including PMOS transistor with source connected to V and drain connected to volatile slave latch stage circuit input by connector . During a restore operation PMOS transistor is used to pre charge input node to V and then is turned OFF. NMOS transistor has source connected to input by connector drain connected to common node and gate connected to a restore enable input. NMOS transistor which is in the ON state during a restore operation and provides a discharge path between input node common node and V through nonvolatile nanotube switch . Vis at zero volts during a restore operation. When transistor is activated by a restore enable input if nonvolatile nanotube switch is ON then input node is discharged if nonvolatile switch is OFF then input node remains at V. The state of volatile slave latch stage circuit is restored to a state corresponding to the nonvolatile state of nonvolatile nanotube switch .

While in normal run mode coupling circuit is inactive and nonvolatile nanotube switch is not powered by Vand is also decoupled from volatile slave latch stage circuit . Hence volatile master latch stage circuit and volatile slave latch stage circuit operate in a normal conventional synchronized logic master slave register run mode of operation at high speed clock rates typically 3 GHz with V 1.3 volts for logic products fabricated using the 130 nm technology node.

In normal run mode at the beginning of a clock cycle clock CLK transitions from high to low voltage and remains at low voltage for the first half the clock cycle and complementary clock CLKb transitions from low to high voltage and remains at high voltage for the first half of the clock cycle. CMOS transfer device turns ON coupling input node voltage Vto storage node . CMOS transfer device turns OFF and isolates the output of volatile master latch stage circuit from the input node of volatile slave latch stage circuit . In normal run mode clock CLK is connected to mode input of volatile slave latch stage circuit clock CLK is connected to CMOS transfer device and complementary clock CLKb output of inverter is also connected to CMOS transfer device such that CMOS transfer device also turns OFF breaking the feedback path between the output of inverter and the input of inverter such that node does not act as a storage node. DI signal may transition to a voltage value corresponding to the correct logic state any time prior to the end of the first half of the clock cycle providing sufficient time remains for cross coupled inverters and to store the corresponding logic state on storage node prior to clock transition at the beginning of the second half of the clock cycle.

In normal run mode clock CLK transitions from low to high voltage and remains at high voltage at the beginning of the second half of the clock cycle and complementary clock CLKb transitions from high to low voltage and remains at low voltage for the second half of the clock cycle. CMOS transfer device turns OFF decoupling input node input signal DI from storage node which remains in a state corresponding to input signal DI at the end of the first half of the clock cycle and storage node remains in a complementary state to storage node . CMOS transfer device turns ON and transfers the state of storage node to input of inverter that drives output node to data output signal DO and also drives the input of inverter . In normal run mode clock CLK is connected to mode input of volatile slave latch stage circuit clock CLK is connected to CMOS transfer device and complementary clock CLKb output of inverter is also connected to CMOS transfer device such that CMOS transfer device also turns ON forming the feedback path between the output of inverter and the input of inverter such that node acts as a storage node. With CMOS transfer device turned ON output of inverter drives the input of inverter and stores the state of slave latch state stage circuit until the end of the second stage of the clock cycle.

While in zero power logic state or data nonvolatile retention mode coupling circuit is inactive nonvolatile nanotube switch is not powered by V and is also decoupled from volatile slave latch stage circuit . Volatile master latch stage circuit and volatile slave latch stage circuit power supplies are at zero volts.

In operation when transitioning from normal run mode to zero power nonvolatile retention mode coupling circuit transfers the logic state from volatile slave latch stage circuit to nonvolatile nanotube switch before power is turned OFF. While power remains ON clock CLK is stopped in a low voltage state with complementary clock CLKb in a high voltage state where a high voltage state is at V 1.3 to 2.5 volts for example and a low voltage state is at zero volts. If nonvolatile nanotube switch has not been erased and is therefore storing a previous logic state then coupling circuit is directed to perform an erase operation followed by a program operation. If nonvolatile nanotube switch is in an erased state then program mode is initiated using coupling circuit .

During an erase operation program enable input voltage is at zero volts and transistor is held in an ON state by the output of inverter . An erase enable pulse transitions from zero volts to V 1.3 to 2.5 volts for example turning transistor N and providing a conducting path between node and ground through ON transistors and as illustrated in . With program enable voltage at zero volts transistor is held in the OFF state by the output of inverter . Restore enable voltage is at zero volts and transistor is OFF and restore pre charge voltage is at Vand transistor is OFF input is isolated so that the state of volatile slave latch stage circuit at node is not disturbed. A Verase voltage pulse of amplitude Vis applied to nonvolatile nanotube switch terminal where Vmay be in the range of 5 to 10 volts for example. The resistance of transistors and in series is much less than the resistance of nonvolatile nanotube switch even if switch is in the ON state. If switch is in the ON state then current flows between node through switch and electrical connection and the channels of ON transistors and to ground and nonvolatile nanotube switch is switched to the OFF erased state. If switch is in the OFF state it remains in the OFF erased state. Note that nonvolatile nanotube switch may be erased at any time prior to programming. If switch is known to be in the erased state then programming can begin immediately. Erase stimuli according to certain embodiments of the invention are described in greater detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786.

Note that during the erase operation transistors and are all OFF isolating nonvolatile nanotube switch from volatile slave latch stage circuit . Therefore the erase operation may be performed any time during the normal run mode without impacting the performance of volatile slave latch stage circuit and can therefore be made transparent to the logic operation of the device.

Laboratory testing of individual nonvolatile nanotube switches illustrate that nonvolatile nanotube switches such as switch illustrated schematically in and also further below with respect to a nonvolatile nanotube switch has been cycled more than 50 million times as illustrated by graph in . The conducting state resistance is typically in the range of 10 kOhms to 50 kOhms while the nonconducting state resistance typically exceeds 1 GOhm for a greater than five orders of magnitude separation of resistance values between conducting and nonconducting states.

The yield of nonvolatile nanotube switches depends on the number of required ON OFF cycles. For a cycle conducting to nonconducting the yield approaches 100 . Achieving thousands or millions of cycles depends on the quality of the nanofabric the overall processing passivation and other factors. In the early stages of a technology it is advantageous to use redundancy to ensure sufficient nonvolatile register file yield.

As the semiconductor industry pushes for ever higher performance while managing power dissipation as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 599 new devices such as nonvolatile nanotube switches may be introduced for greater flexibility. Such new devices may require yield enhancement in the early years of manufacturing by adding additional redundant function and means of bypassing defective nonvolatile register file individual stages until the yield learning is sufficient to reduce or eliminate a need for such redundant function.

For nonvolatile register file shown in the number of desired good stages is N 256 bits for example. An additional M stages may be added M 116 bits for example such that the total number of available stages N M is 372. Selection means may be used to bypass defective registers such that 256 register stages of the 372 total available stages may be used to form a nonvolatile register file functionally equivalent to nonvolatile register file .

Selection means may include traditional fuse latch devices such as laser fuses for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 345 110 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Selection means may include fuse latches with multiple fuse and anti fuse types such as described in Bertin et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 802 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Other selection means may include fuse latches with substantially higher resistance trip points in the range of 100 K as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 750 802. Such latches accommodate fuses with an ON resistance range of 10 K or lower to 50 K for example and OFF programmed or blown resistance ranges in excess of 1 M and are well suited for replacing traditional fuse types using metal or polysilicon material with new nonvolatile fuse types such as nonvolatile nanotube switches whose electrical characteristics are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786. Traditional fuse latches are typically OTP one time programmable . New latches using nonvolatile nanotube switches may be operated in an OTP mode or may be programmed and erased thousands of times for example.

Still other selection means may include a nonvolatile redundant register file a modified version of nonvolatile register file in shown in which may be used to identify good nonvolatile register file stages.

A steering circuit that is used to include or bypass individual nonvolatile register file stages controlled by the state of traditional or new fuse latches or by nonvolatile redundant register file stages is included with every latch stage of the modified nonvolatile register file described further below.

Nonvolatile register files described further above include high speed volatile registers typically comprising a master and slave latch per stage and a nonvolatile nanotube switch NV NT Switch coupled to each slave latch for example. The NV NT Switch may be directly coupled to the slave latch or may be coupled using a coupling circuit. In addition to optimizing the yield of nonvolatile operation of nonvolatile register file latches as described further above there is a need to optimize the high speed performance of volatile registers as well. Also not all register files need to be nonvolatile. However register files require high speed high clock speed synchronous operation.

At high clock speeds in excess of 1 GHz for example the yield of register latches may be reduced due to device parameter variations that cause logic delay variation or cache delay variation. Such parameter variations may occur from lot to lot during fabrication and also change under field use caused by device parameter change drift . For example a synchronous CPU and on board cache may require a cache access time of 170 ps for example to ensure that the data read from the cache is ready at the CPU terminals one clock cycle after a CPU data request is initiated.

It would be desirable to provide a nonvolatile scalable element that may be used as a fuse or as an antifuse or as both fuse and antifuse or more generally able to toggle between nonvolatile ON and OFF states multiple times and a corresponding latch circuit. Integrating such a latch circuit with delay control circuits may be used to optimize timing adjust critical timing paths at time of fabrication and in the field to optimize performance at higher yield with enhanced reliability.

Switches SW to SW N M are used as two input one output multiplexers mux s to select include or de select bypass any stage to N M when forming the N stages of nonvolatile register file . Each nonvolatile register file stage has a corresponding switch. For example the output of stage goes to corresponding first input to switch SW and the input DI to stage also bypasses stage and goes directly to a second input to switch SW. The output of switch SW may be the output of stage or the input DI to stage if stage is to be bypassed. Select signal S determines whether stage is selected or bypassed when forming nonvolatile register file .

For any stage K between stage and N M the output of stage K goes to corresponding first input to switch SWK the input to stage K which is the output of switch SW K 1 also bypasses stage K and goes directly to a second input to switch SWK. The output of switch SWK may be the output of stage K or the input to stage K thereby bypassing stage K. Select signal SK determines whether stage K is selected or bypassed when forming nonvolatile register file . The input to stage K may be the output of stage K 1 or may be output of stage K 2 for example if stage K 1 has been bypassed. Multiple stages may be bypassed. For example if all stages preceding stage K have been bypassed then the input to stage K may be DI the input to stage .

The output of the last stage N M goes to corresponding first input to switch SW N M and the input to stage N M also bypasses stage N M and goes directly to second input to switch SW N M . The output of switch SW N M is data out DO. Nonvolatile register file data out DO may be the output of stage N M or stage N M may be bypassed. The data out DO signal may be from any previous stage such as stage K for example. Select signal S N M determines whether stage N M is selected or bypassed when forming nonvolatile file .

Control signals S . . . S N M are provided by corresponding nonvolatile configuration latch . . . nonvolatile configuration latch N M N M . Each nonvolatile configuration latch K K provides an output signal SK that selects or deselects bypasses nonvolatile register file state K as described further below. A configuration selection circuit may be used to select which of the nonvolatile configuration latches are programmed and which are left as is.

Configuration selection circuit may be decoder logic with a control input such as used in memory array spare row or column selection as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 345 110 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively configuration selection circuit may utilize a serial configuration control register as described in U.S. Pat. No. Re. 34 363 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Configuration selection circuits are described further below

In operation as illustrated in if input control signal SK is high 1.5 to 2.5 volts for example then CMOS transfer gate TR is ON with both corresponding PFET and NFET parallel devices in the ON state and terminal C is connected to terminal A. CMOS transfer device TR is OFF. However if input signal SK is low zero volts for example then CMOS transfer gate TR is ON with both corresponding PFET and NFET parallel devices in the ON state and terminal C is connected to terminal B. CMOS transfer device TR is OFF. Note that when SK is high then SKb is low and when SK is low then SKb is high.

In operation of switch circuit or switch circuit as illustrated in terminals A and B may be input signals that may be routed to output C as a function of control signal SK or control signals SK and SKb . Alternatively terminal C may be an input signal that may be routed to terminal A or terminal as a function of control signal SK or control signals SK and SKb . When switch circuit or switch circuit is used as representative switch SK of switches SW . . . SW M N as illustrated in terminal A may be used as a first input connected to the output corresponding nonvolatile register file stage K for example and terminal B may be used as a second input connected to the input of nonvolatile register file stage K which may be used to bypass corresponding nonvolatile register file stage K for example as explained further above with respect to nonvolatile register file operation illustrated in .

Control signals to routing circuits or used to select or deselect individual nonvolatile register file stages such as nonvolatile register file stage K as explained further above with respect to may be supplied by a nonvolatile latch one latch for each switch for example. One approach is to use various latches based on laser fuses that are programmed using laser ablation. These laser fuses may be formed of patterned metallic or polysilicon elements for example. Alternatively such laser fuses may be formed using a patterned nanofabric resistor similar to nanofabric based resistors described in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 230 876 entitled Resistive Elements using Carbon Nanotubes filed Sep. 20 2005 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Another approach is to use latches based on electronic fuses or electronic antifuses as described in Bertin et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 806 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. These latch types are used as OTP one time programmable latches.

Yet another approach is to introduce new latches based on the resistance of nonvolatile nanotube switches as logic state fuse or antifuse storage elements such as the switches described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786. New latches that store a logic state based on the resistance of nonvolatile nanotube switches may be OTP or may be used more than once multiple times in an erase program read mode described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786. Note that nonvolatile register file stages described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 599 or modifications of such stages as described further below may be used as nonvolatile logic state storage latches.

In all cases the nonvolatile resistive state of a fuse or antifuse in a closed conducting state or open non conducting state is used to indicate a first or second logical state. The latch circuit converts the fuse or antifuse nonvolatile resistive state into a corresponding electrical voltage level indicative of a logical 1 or 0. This corresponding voltage level is transmitted as a control signal to routing circuits or illustrated in . In this way the logical state of a nonvolatile latch may be used to select or deselect bypass a nonvolatile register file stage as illustrated in .

Nonvolatile Signal Sources Based on Nonvolatile Latches Using Laser Ablation of Fuses as a Programming Means

Nonvolatile register file illustrated in is tested after fabrication and functional good and nonfunctional bad nonvolatile register file stages are identified from the total of N M available stages. If a sufficient number of good nonvolatile register file stages are identified in this example at least 256 stages then a tester generated map yield map showing good and bad stages is generated. If a stage such as nonvolatile register file stage K is to be included in the formation of nonvolatile register file then a fuse corresponding to a nonvolatile latch K is left intact conducting and corresponding latch circuit transitions to a second logic state. If however a nonvolatile register file stage such as stage J is to be bypassed that is excluded from nonvolatile register file then a fuse corresponding to a nonvolatile latch J is programmed written to a high resistance state blown by laser ablation and corresponding latch circuit remains in a first logic state. The tester generated yield map is converted to fuse position coordinates X Y for example for laser ablation using a laser ablation tool typically an off the shelf industry standard laser tool.

A typical read operation performed by latch circuit shown in is illustrated by waveforms illustrated in as follows First the precharge transistor device T is pulsed by signal and precharges node to voltage Vand the latch circuit to a first logical state and then turns OFF. In its first logical state latch circuit node voltage is high and output voltage Vat node is at a low voltage. Subsequently the strobe device T is pulsed ON by signal . If the fuse element is intact it is conductive and drains off the precharge voltage from node forcing latch circuit to a second logical state in which node is at a low voltage and Von node is at a high voltage. If the fuse element has been programmed it no longer conducts enough to drain sufficient charge off from the latch node to change the logical stage of the latch. In this case when the strobe device is activated the latch circuit remains in its first logic state with node voltage high and output voltage Von terminal low.

If nonvolatile file latch stage K is to be included as a stage in nonvolatile register file illustrated in then fuse in corresponding latch circuit is left intact in a conducting state. Therefore when corresponding latch circuit is strobed it transitions to a second logic state as described further above in which node is at a low voltage and Von node is at a high voltage. If routing switch is used in nonvolatile register file then a positive voltage Von output is transmitted to select signal input SK CMOS transfer gate TR is activated and CMOS transfer gate TR is deactivated as described further above with respect to . Routing switch connects input A with output C which transmits the output of nonvolatile register file stage K to the input of nonvolatile register file stage K 1 thus including stage K in nonvolatile register file

Note that if routing switch illustrated in were used instead of routing switch then both select signal input SK corresponding to Von node and complementary select signal input SKb corresponding to node of circuit latch are provided. Therefore routing switch connects input A with output C which transmits the output of nonvolatile register file stage K to the input of nonvolatile register file stage K 1 thus including stage K in nonvolatile register .

If nonvolatile file latch stage J is to be excluded as a stage in nonvolatile register file illustrated in then fuse in corresponding latch circuit is programmed to a nonconducting state. Therefore when corresponding latch circuit is strobed it remains in a first logic state as described further above in which node is at a high voltage and Von node is at a low voltage. If routing switch is used in nonvolatile register file then a low near zero voltage Von output is transmitted to select signal input SJ CMOS transfer gate TR is activated and CMOS transfer gate TR is deactivated as described further above with respect to . Routing switch connects input B with output C which bypasses the output of nonvolatile register file stage J to the input of nonvolatile register file stage J 1 thus excluding stage J in nonvolatile register file .

Note that if routing switch illustrated in were used instead of routing switch then both select signal input SJ corresponding to Von node and complementary select signal input SJb corresponding to node of circuit latch are provided. Therefore routing switch connects input B with output C which bypasses the output of nonvolatile register file stage J to the input of nonvolatile register file stage J 1 thus excluding stage J in nonvolatile register .

Nonvolatile Signal Sources Based on Nonvolatile Latches Using Laser Ablation of Patterned Nanofabric Fuses as a Programming Means

Patterned laser fuses resistors using metallic or polysilicon resistor elements requires removal of a relatively large amount of material during laser ablation. Typical industry practices require an opening through dielectric layers to expose the fuse region such that the fuse material is expelled through the opening during laser ablation because of the relatively large quantity of material metal or semiconductor .

A laser fuse formed from a patterned nanotube layer is easily integrated at any point in a semiconductor process. Also a fuse resistor formed patterned nanotube layer requires removal of a small amount of material during laser ablation. Therefore a patterned nanotube laser fuse may be laser ablated with an opening through dielectric layers or while covered with a protective insulating film providing dielectric layers are transparent to laser energy. Patterned nanofabric resistors are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 230 876.

Metallic and polysilicon fuses may also self heal due to improper blowing of the fuse creating too small of a gap in the resistor. If the device is employed in a high temperature environment such as in high radioactive environments material diffusion can occur which will short the previously blown resistor creating a leakage path through the fuse element. Due to the minuscule size of the nanotube fabric and the nature of the strong C C bonding present in the nanotubes the ability for a reconnection of a blown fabric is minimal to non existent.

Contacts and may be used for both contact and interconnect purposes as illustrated in cross section shown after insulator deposition. Insulator may be deposited as an insulating protective layer to complete insulated patterned nanofabric resistor fuse . shows a cross section of fuse after laser ablation has removed region . Examples of contact and interconnect materials are elemental metals such as Ru Ti Cr Al Au Pd Ni W Cu Mo Ag In Ir Pb Sn as well as metal alloys such as TiAu TiCu TiPd PbIn and TiW other suitable conductors or conductive nitrides oxides or suicides such as RuN RuO TiN TaN CoSiand TiSimay be used as described further in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 230 876. Insulator layer may be SiO SiN AlO BeO polyimide Mylar or other suitable insulating material. Patterned nanofabric resistor fuse may be used as fuse in latch illustrated in by depositing insulated patterned nanofabric resistor fuse such that terminal is in contact with node and terminal is in contact with terminal .

Fuse may be left intact or may be programmed blown by laser ablation. show respectively before and after laser ablation. Fuse materials such as metals or polysilicon require removal of relatively large amounts of material and are typically left uninsulated as described further above. Nanofabrics composed of multiple SWNTs and or MWNTs in the range of 1 to 5 nm or 5 to 20 nm in diameter respectively result in a removal laser ablation of multiple SWNTs and or MWNTs involving small volumes of material such that fuse may be programmed blown in the presence of an insulating layer providing the insulating layer is transparent to the laser optical wavelength used. Alternatively a portion of insulating material above patterned nanofabric element may be removed not shown for purpose of laser ablation.

In operation the logic state of latch illustrated in reflects the resistance state of patterned nanofabric resistor fuse used as fuse in latch . For example if fuse element is left intact conducting as illustrated in or C when strobe transistor T is activated node is discharged and latch circuit transitions to a second logic state such that node is at a low voltage and Von node is at a high voltage. However if fuse has been programmed made nonconducting by laser ablation such as illustrated in or D then node is not discharged and latch circuit remains in a first logic state. That is the latch circuit converts the nonvolatile fuse resistance value into an electrical voltage level indicative of a logical 0 a first logic state or a logical 1 a second logic state .

Nonvolatile Signal Sources Based on Nonvolatile Latches Using Both Electronic Fuses or Antifuses as a Programming Means

Laser ablation requires that fuses be placed in a region with large dimensions large footprint because of the laser spot size and alignment and required clearance to adjacent circuits. No devices may be placed under the fuses.

Electronic fuses e fuses composed of metal or polysilicon resistive traces may fit in a region with a smaller area than required for fuses that use laser ablation. Also electronic fuses may be activated before or after a chip is packaged. Electronic fuses are in an ON conducting resistive state as fabricated typically in the hundreds of ohms and are programmed blown to OFF nonconducting state of greater than 100 K to 1 M Ohm range by an electric current that causes localized IR heating. Typically such programming currents are in the milli Ampere range. Note that e fuse may sometimes be referred to simply as fuse.

Electronic antifuses e antifuses are typically formed with capacitor structures that include metallic or polysilicon capacitor plates and a thin insulator SiOand or SiN for example. Electronic antifuses are in the OFF nonconductive state as fabricated typically in the 10 M Ohm and above range and are programmed blown to an ON conductive resistive state by applying voltages of 8 to 12 volts and programming currents in the micro Ampere range. ON conductive resistance values are typically in the 1 K to 50 K Ohm range. Note that e antifuse may sometimes be referred to simply as antifuse.

In the universal latch circuit illustrated in the fuse latch circuit illustrated in has been modified to include a first e fuse or strobing path through transistors T and T and which includes an electrical fuse element connected to node of transistor T and to a source voltage Vnode . Transistor T is held in the linear region with a channel resistance which when combined with the resistance of e fuse typically 200 Ohms for example results in a latch resistive trip point of 10 kOhms as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 806. A resistive trip point of 10 kOhms is consistent with a e fuse ON resistance in the hundreds of Ohms and an OFF resistance of at least 100 kOhms. Note that node is at zero ground voltage when the state of latch is set.

Transistor T has been added between node and ground for e fuse programming purposes. During e fuse programming a voltage source Vis applied to node . If transistor T is turned on by input programming activation voltage V then a programming current flows through fuse and fuse transitions to a high resistances state. If transistor T remains OFF then fuse is not programmed and remains in the low resistance ON state. E antifuse may be programmed only once. Typically a programming current in the milli Ampere range is required. Examples of polysilicon fuses and programming requirements are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 624 499 and 6 008 523 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In the universal latch circuit illustrated in the fuse latch circuit illustrated in has been modified to include a second e antifuse or strobing path through transistors T and T and which includes an electrical antifuse element connected to node of transistor T and to a source voltage Vnode . Transistor T is held in the linear region with a channel resistance which when combined with the resistance of e antifuse typically 10 kOhms to 50 kOhms for example results in a latch resistive trip point of 100 kOhms as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 806 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. A resistive trip point of 100 kOhms is consistent with an e antifuse ON resistance in the thousands of Ohms and an OFF resistance of at least 1 MOhm. Note that node is at zero ground voltage when the state of latch is set.

Transistor T has been added between node and ground for e antifuse programming purposes. During e antifuse programming a voltage source Vis applied to node . If transistor T is turned on by input programming activation voltage V then a programming voltage is applied across e antifuse a small current micro Amperes flows and e antifuse transitions to a low resistances state. If transistor T remains OFF then e antifuse is not programmed and remains in a high resistance OFF state. Fuse may be programmed only once. Typically Vis in the 8 to 12 volt range and a corresponding programming current in the micro Ampere range. Examples of antifuses and programming requirements are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 956 282 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Universal latch circuit output node corresponds to latch circuit output node . Universal latch circuit node the complement of output node corresponds to latch circuit node . If the intrinsic latch trip resistance of universal latch circuit is designed for 100 kOhms then universal latch circuit may be more sensitive to upset by cosmic rays of alpha particles generated hole electron pairs than latch circuit . Accordingly ballast capacitor may be added to output node and ballast capacitor may be added to complementary node . Ballast capacitor values may be 10 to 20 fF for example.

The read operation for universal latch circuit when using e fuse in strobing path is the same as the read operation for latch circuit using fuse . Thus if nonvolatile file latch stage K is to be included as a stage in nonvolatile register file illustrated in then e fuse in corresponding universal latch circuit is left intact in a conducting state. Therefore when corresponding universal latch circuit is strobed it transitions to a second logic state as described further above in which node is at a low voltage and Von node is at a high voltage. If routing switch is used in nonvolatile register file then a positive voltage Von output is transmitted to select signal input SK CMOS transfer gate TR is activated and CMOS transfer gate TR is deactivated as described further above with respect to . Routing switch connects input A with output C which transmits the output of nonvolatile register file stage K to the input of nonvolatile register file stage K 1 thus including stage K in nonvolatile register file .

The read operation for universal latch circuit when using e fuse in strobing path is the same as the read operation for latch circuit using fuse . Thus if nonvolatile file latch stage J is to be excluded as a stage in nonvolatile register file illustrated in then e fuse in corresponding universal latch circuit is programmed to a nonconducting state. Therefore when corresponding universal latch circuit is strobed it remains in a first logic state as described further above in which node is at a high voltage and Von node is at a low voltage. If routing switch is used in nonvolatile register file then a low near zero voltage Von output is transmitted to select signal input SJ CMOS transfer gate TR is activated and CMOS transfer gate TR is deactivated as described further above with respect to . Routing switch connects input B with output C which bypasses the output of nonvolatile register file stage J to the input of nonvolatile register file stage J 1 thus excluding stage J in nonvolatile register file .

Note that with respect to universal latch circuit if node is positive and if both node output is made available to select signal input SK and complementary node output is made available to select signal input SKb of switch circuit then stage K will be included in register file . However if node is zero is made available to signal input SJ and complementary node output is made available to select signal input SJb of switch circuit then stage J will be excluded in register file as described further above with respect to latch circuit .

The read operation for universal latch circuit when using e antifuse in strobing path is the opposite of the read operation for latch circuit using fuse with respect to programming. Thus if nonvolatile file latch stage K is to be included as a stage in nonvolatile register file illustrated in then e antifuse in corresponding universal latch circuit is programmed from an intact normally nonconducting state to a conducting state. Therefore when corresponding universal latch circuit is strobed it transitions to a second logic state as described further above in which node is at a low voltage and Von node is at a high voltage. If routing switch is used in nonvolatile register file then a positive voltage Von output is transmitted to select signal input SK CMOS transfer gate TR is activated and CMOS transfer gate TR is deactivated as described further above with respect to . Routing switch connects input A with output C which transmits the output of nonvolatile register file stage K to the input of nonvolatile register file stage K 1 thus including stage K in nonvolatile register file .

The read operation for universal latch circuit when using e antifuse in strobing path is the opposite of the read operation for latch circuit using fuse with respect to programming. Thus if nonvolatile file latch stage J is to be excluded as a stage in nonvolatile register file illustrated in then e antifuse in corresponding universal latch circuit is left intact in its nonconducting state. Therefore when corresponding universal latch circuit is strobed it remains in a first logic state as described further above in which node is at a high voltage and Von node is at a low voltage. If routing switch is used in nonvolatile register file then a low near zero voltage Von output is transmitted to select signal input SJ CMOS transfer gate TR is activated and CMOS transfer gate TR is deactivated as described further above with respect to . Routing switch connects input B with output C which bipasses the output of nonvolatile register file stage J to the input of nonvolatile register file stage J 1 thus excluding stage J in nonvolatile register file .

Note that with respect to universal latch circuit if node is positive and if both node output is made available to select signal input SK and complementary node output is made available to select signal input SKb of switch circuit then stage K will be included in register file . However if node is zero is made available to signal input SJ and complementary node output is made available to select signal input SJb of switch circuit then stage J will be excluded in register file as described further above with respect to latch circuit .

Nonvolatile Signal Sources Based on Nonvolatile Latches Using Nonvolatile Nanotube Switches as Electronic Fuses or Antifuses as a Programming Means

Typically OTP electronic fuses using metallic or polysilicon traces have relatively small resistance values typically in the 100 Ohm range and require relatively large currents in the milli Ampere range in order to reach sufficiently high IR power dissipation to cause a fuse to transition from a conducting to a nonconducting state. Also electronic fuse lengths are typically longer than minimum dimensions in order to achieve sufficient resistance to avoid requiring even higher currents. As a result electronic fuses do not scale well and remain relatively large in size even as technology dimensions are reduced with each new generation of technology.

Typically OTP electronic antifuses use capacitor structures having capacitor plates of metal or semiconducting polysilicon for example material on either side of a thin insulator layer 5 to 10 nm of SiOand or SiNx for example and require relatively high breakdown voltages in the range of 8 to 12 volts for example that are not easily scalable. Electronic antifuses do not scale well and remain relatively large in size even as technology dimensions are reduced with each new generation of technology.

What is needed is a scalable fuse and or a scalable antifuse that integrates easily in silicon integrated circuit technologies such as CMOS and bipolar memory logic mixed signal etc. and may be reduced in size programming voltage and current as new technology generations are introduced. Nonvolatile nanotube switches described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786 are scalable nonvolatile nanotube switches that may be added at any convenient point in the process flow. These scalable nonvolatile nanotube switches may be used to replace nonvolatile electronic fuses or antifuses.

In the latch circuit illustrated in the universal latch circuit illustrated in has been modified to include a nonvolatile nanotube switch strobing path through transistors T and T and which includes nonvolatile nanotube switch element connected to node of transistor T and to a voltage source Vnode . Transistor T is held in the linear region with a channel resistance which when combined with the resistance of nonvolatile nanotube switch typically 10 kOhms to 50 kOhms for example results in a latch resistive trip point of 100 kOhms as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 806. A resistive trip point of 100 kOhms is consistent with a nonvolatile nanotube switch ON resistance in the 10 kOhm to 50 kOhm range and an OFF resistance of at least 1 MOhm nonvolatile nanotube switch OFF resistance is typically 1 GOhm or greater . Note that node is at zero ground voltage when the state of latch is set.

Latch circuit described further above with respect to illustrates NV NT switch with one terminal connected to node to which program erase pulse or pulses Vis are applied and a second terminal connected to common node and the drain of operating mode select transistor T . The operation of latch circuit is described with respect to a NV NT switch in the relatively high resistance range of 10 kOhm to 50 kOhm range. However NV NT switch may in a lower resistance range such as 100 Ohm to 10 kOhm range for example.

Latch circuit is also described with respect to a particular latch configuration connected to common node consisting of an inverter INV an inverter with feedback enable disable means formed by transistors T T and T and corresponding interconnect means. Also included are pre charge and strobe transistors T and T respectively and their interconnections as well as bias transistor T typically in the linear region connected to common node . Different latch configurations may be connected to common node to achieve corresponding function and operation as described with respect to latch circuit . Latch circuit and many other latch circuit configurations known in the industry may be used to convert low resistance and high resistance states of NV NT switch to logical 1 and logical 0 states corresponding to high and low voltage output Vvalues. Also capacitors and used for additional latch stability are optional and are not used in many configurations. These capacitors may be omitted from latch circuit as well.

There are technology differences when referring to a programmed state for example between OTP nonvolatile electronic fuses e fuses used in nonvolatile latches such as latch illustrated in and scalable nonvolatile nanotube switches used in nonvolatile register files and illustrated in . These terminology differences can lead to confusion when discussing both nonvolatile latches and nonvolatile register files in the same specification. Table 1 and table 2 illustrate differences in terminology for clarification purposes.

In table 1 an e Fuse used in a latch is in the ON state as fabricated and may be programmed once OTP to an OFF state. Therefore an e Fuse OFF state is referred to as a programmed state in the corresponding conventional terminology and in the corresponding text in this specification.

By contrast as can be seen in table 2 a nonvolatile nanotube switch NV NT Switch typically used in nonvolatile register files such as illustrated in is ON as fabricated is referred to as erased in the OFF state in the incorporated patent references and the corresponding text in this specification. Since NV NT Switches may be cycled multiple times the ON state resulting due to an OFF state to ON state transition is referred to as a programmed state in the incorporated patent references and the corresponding text in this specification.

In reference to Table 1 in the case where an e Fuse has been replaced by a scalable nonvolatile nanotube switch NV NT Switch in a latch the terminology depends on the application. If the NV NT Switch application requires changes between ON and OFF states multiple times then an OFF state is considered erased and an ON state is programmed or as fabricated . However if the NV NT Switch is to be used as a OTP e fuse replacement then the NV NT Switch may be referred to as a nanotube fuse nt Fuse a new terminology. Thus in the OTP mode an OFF state may be referred to as a programmed state as illustrated in table 1 instead of an erased state. The programmed OFF state is only used with respect nonvolatile latch in and only if latch is used in an OTP mode. In latch the term nt Fuse corresponds to NV NT Switch when used in an OTP mode.

Note that unlike e Fuses NV NT Switches are and operate as nonvolatile nanotube switches and therefore may change between ON and OFF states numerous times. Therefore NV NT Switches are much more versatile than OTP e Fuses. Product configurations may be changed after programming even in the field when using NV NT Switches as part of latch circuits. For example nonvolatile register file illustrated in may experience a failure in one or more of the 256 stages. This may occur under normal operating conditions or may occur as a result of exposure to harsh environments such as high levels of radiation high temperatures or other conditions when operating in an application in the field. If this occurs then assuming extra unused latches exist and assuming nonvolatile configuration control latches used were similar to latch illustrated in then configuration selection circuit can reset nonvolatile configuration latches as needed by changing the ON and OFF states of corresponding NV NT Switches to restore nonvolatile register file operation.

The terminology used with respect to nonvolatile latches using e Fuses is shown in Table 1 and is illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 806. The terminology used with respect to nonvolatile register files using NV NT Switches is shown in both Table 1 and Table 2 and is illustrated in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 280 786 and 11 280 599.

Transistor T has been added between node and ground for NV NT Switch programming purposes. During NV NT Switch programming a voltage source Vis applied to node . Transistor T may be turned on before or after Vtransition by input program erase activation voltage Vand one or several voltage pulses may be applied current may flows through NV NT Switch and NV NT Switch may transition from a low to a high resistances state or from a high to a low resistance state depending on the desired operation. If transistor T remains OFF then NV NT Switch remains in the same state. NV NT Switch may be change states once or may be cycled multiple times between ON and OFF states.

Nonvolatile nanotube switch passivation involves depositing a suitable dielectric layer over the nonvolatile nanotube switches. An example of this approach is the use of spin coated polyvinylidenefluoride PVDF polyimide or other insulator for example in direct contact with the nonvolatile nanotube switches. Then a suitable secondary dielectric passivation film such an alumina or silicon dioxide is used to seal off underlying PVDF polyimide or other insulator and provide a passivation robust to nonvolatile nanotube switch operation. Nonvolatile nanotube switch or may be included inserted at any point in an integrated circuit process flow. Typical programming and erase currents for switch are approximately 1 50 micro Ampere or two to three orders of magnitude lower than currents typically required to program conventional e fuse currents.

An advantage of structure is that a large amount of the IR power is lost to the substrate therefore if an insulator with a smaller thermal conductivity than is chosen then the switching of the nanotube fabric at lower currents is facilitated because of less heat loss to the underlying substrate. Without wishing to be bound by theory the inventors believe that the two terminal nanotube switch may primarily function due to heating within the fabric that causes breaking and reforming of carbon carbon and or carbon metal bonds as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786. Therefore less heat that is lost to the substrate may allow for smaller applied voltages to break the nanotube switch hence turn the switch to an OFF state.

Nonvolatile nanotube switch passivation involves depositing a suitable dielectric layer over the nonvolatile nanotube switches. An example of this approach is the use of spin coated polyvinylidenefluoride PVDF polyimide or other insulator for example in direct contact with the nonvolatile nanotube switches. Then a suitable secondary dielectric passivation film such an alumina or silicon dioxide is used to seal off underlying PVDF polyimide or other insulator and provide a passivation robust to nonvolatile nanotube switch operation. Nonvolatile nanotube switch or may be included inserted at any point in an integrated circuit process flow. Nonvolatile switches and are described in more detail in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 280 786 and 11 280 599. Typical programming erase currents for switch are in the range of 1 20 micro Ampere or three orders of magnitude lower than currents of 10 s of milli Amperes typically required to program conventional e fuse currents.

With proper design conditions it is not expected that the nanotubes will only break in the suspended region. It is expected that a proportion of the nanotubes in the fabric will switch OFF on substrate allowing for the NRAM switch to be cycled.

The cavity used for the suspended region may also be filled with an oxidizing gas such as Oor Oto further decrease the current required to blow the nanotube fuse. This would be valuable for an OTP device that does not need to be reprogrammed.

Nonvolatile nanotube switches illustrated in are normally ON as fabricated. While nonvolatile nanotube switches such as NV NT Switches illustrated in may be cycled between ON and OFF states many millions of times as illustrated in they are initially formed as relatively high resistance switches. Referring to nonvolatile latch illustrated in if nonvolatile nanotube switches are similar to NV NT Switches then Rin a conducting state will typically have a resistance range of 10 kOhms to 50 kOhms. If NV NT Switches as described with respect to latch circuit NV NT Switches are similar to NV NT Switches then Rin a nonconducting state will have resistance values typically 1 GOhm or higher.

Nonvolatile nanotube switches used as shadow devices in nonvolatile register files shown in require 10to 10operating cycles for example and therefore additional redundant nonvolatile register file stages are introduced as shown in . For latch circuit NV NT Switches in a OTP mode a single program operation see table 1 for program definition on nonvolatile nanotube switch used as a switch would have a nonvolatile nanotube switch yield approaching 100 . Even if nanotube switch were exposed to a few ON OFF cycles its yield would still approach 100 .

The read operation for latch circuit when using NV NT Switch in strobing path is the same as the read operation for latch circuit using electronic fuse . Thus if nonvolatile file latch stage K is to be included as a stage in nonvolatile register file illustrated in then NV NT Switch in corresponding universal latch circuit is left intact in a conducting state. Therefore when corresponding latch circuit is strobed it transitions to a second logic state as described further above in which node is at a low voltage and Von node is at a high voltage. If routing switch is used in nonvolatile register file then a positive voltage Von output is transmitted to select signal input SK CMOS transfer gate TR is activated and CMOS transfer gate TR is deactivated as described further above with respect to . Routing switch connects input A with output C which transmits the output of nonvolatile register file stage K to the input of nonvolatile register file stage K 1 thus including stage K in nonvolatile register file .

The read operation for latch circuit when using NV NT Switch in strobing path is the same as the read operation for latch circuit using electrical fuse . Thus if nonvolatile file latch stage J is to be excluded as a stage in nonvolatile register file illustrated in then NV NT Switch in corresponding latch circuit is programmed to a nonconducting state. Therefore when corresponding universal latch circuit is strobed it remains in a first logic state as described further above in which node is at a high voltage and Von node is at a low voltage. If routing switch is used in nonvolatile register file then a low near zero voltage Von output is transmitted to select signal input SJ CMOS transfer gate TR is activated and CMOS transfer gate TR is deactivated as described further above with respect to . Routing switch connects input B with output C which bypasses the output of nonvolatile register file stage J to the input of nonvolatile register file stage J 1 thus excluding stage J in nonvolatile register file .

Note that with respect to universal latch circuit if node is positive and if both node output is made available to select signal input SK and complementary node output is made available to select signal input SKb of switch circuit then stage K will be included in register file . However if node is zero is made available to signal input SJ and complementary node output is made available to select signal input SJb of switch circuit then stage J will be excluded in register file as described further above with respect to latch circuit .

Note that latch NV NT Switch may changed from an ON state to an OFF state then back to an ON state then back to an OFF state any number of times. Therefore the setting of latch may be changed multiple times if desired. This unique feature offered by latch because of NV NT Switch element offers useful flexibility at the module level for the manufacturer and for field upgradeable reconfigurable products.

Latch circuit output node corresponds to universal latch circuit output node . Latch circuit node the complement of output node corresponds to latch circuit node . If the intrinsic latch trip resistance of latch circuit is designed for 100 kOhms then latch circuit may be more sensitive to upset by cosmic rays of alpha particles generated hole electron pairs. Accordingly ballast capacitor may be added to output node and ballast capacitor may be added to complementary node . Ballast capacitor values may be 10 to 20 F. for example.

Universal latch circuit and latch circuit described further above may be used as electronically programmed nonvolatile configuration latches through N M and supply a corresponding output signal S through S N M illustrated in . A configuration selection circuit may be used to determine the state of latch circuit outputs thereby determining which nonvolatile register file stages are included in nonvolatile register file . Latch circuits and are universally applicable to memory logic digital and analog standalone and embedded products and not limited to the nonvolatile register file example. Note that latch circuit does not require configuration selection circuit because the state of latch circuit is determined by laser ablation.

In one implementation configuration selection circuit may be decoder logic with control input as used in memory array spare row or column selection. The use of reconfiguration latch circuits to substitute redundant row and column lines for row and column lines in memory arrays in DRAM and SRAM memories is described in a reference book by Itoh Kiyoo VLSI Memory Chip Design Springer Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2001 pp. 178 183 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In an alternative implementation configuration selection circuit may utilize a configuration control register such as described in U.S. Pat. No. Re. 34 363. A configuration control register was chosen as configuration selection circuit in this example because of ease of integration with nonvolatile register file latch stages to form nonvolatile register file shown in .

In operation the entire configuration control register may be set to a high or low voltage by setting and voltage high and HOLD voltage low. With HOLD set at a high voltage clocks and may be used to transfer a logic pattern of 1 and 0 into the shift register to program or not program nonvolatile configuration latches . . . N M based on test results a yield map . Enough time should be allowed for the INPUT signal to propagate the entire length of configuration control register . At that point in time APPLY may transition to a positive voltage and inverter outputs C C . . . C N M are transferred to corresponding configuration control latches . . . N M.

Referring to configuration control register may be used as configuration selection circuit for nonvolatile register file with output C . . . C N M controlling the state of nonvolatile configuration latch . . . nonvolatile configuration latch N M . Nonvolatile configuration control latches . . . N M are programmed to hold corresponding configuration control register logic states.

If latch circuit is used as a nonvolatile configuration control latch then an OTP state is stored in each nonvolatile configuration latch and individual nonvolatile file register stages are selected from the N M individual nonvolatile file register stages and interconnected to form nonvolatile register file . This register file configuration may not be changed.

Alternatively if latch circuit is used as a nonvolatile configuration control latch state then a nonvolatile ON or OFF state is stored in NV NT Switch . Because NV NT Switch is a nonvolatile nanotube switch NV NT Switch may be cycled between ON and OFF states multiple times such that configuration control latches may be cycled through several logic states and therefore the configuration of nonvolatile register file may be changed from its initial state even in the field.

Nonvolatile Signal Sources Based on Nonvolatile Register Files Using Nonvolatile Nanotube Switches as Programming Means

It is possible to replace configuration selection circuit and nonvolatile configuration latches through N M in by a nonvolatile configuration file including nonvolatile configuration register file stages through N M with outputs S through S N M as illustrated in . The combination of nonvolatile configuration register with nonvolatile register file forms nonvolatile register file . Nonvolatile register file corresponds to nonvolatile register file

In a first configuration of nonvolatile configuration control register including nonvolatile configuration control register file stage . . . stage N M input data in the form of an input data stream of logical 1 s and 0 s is loaded into register . Nonvolatile configuration register file stages are identical to nonvolatile register file stages. However the number of cycles is limited. For example for an OTP operation in this case erase programming in latch terminology is performed only once cycle on selected nonvolatile nanotube switches. Yield is high between 99 and 100 for example and outputs S through S N M select or deselect bypass nonvolatile register files stages in a corresponding approach described further above with respect to latch circuits and . With respect to latch circuit only OTP programming is possible because of the electronic fuse blow approach. With respect to latch circuit several operating cycles are possible because electronic blow fuses are replaced with nonvolatile nanotube switches.

In operation this first configuration nonvolatile configuration register may be changed several times by undergoing erase and programming cycles using the operating mode input as described with respect to . By limiting changes to a few cycles 1 to 3 cycles for example nonvolatile configuration control register yield remains between 99 and 100 while providing the ability to conFigure nonvolatile register files include or exclude bypass various stages at the factory or to reconfigure nonvolatile register files to change included excluded stages in the field after product shipment as needed.

Nonvolatile Signal Sources Based on New Configuration Serial Latches Using Nonvolatile Nanotube Switches as Programming Means

In a second configuration nonvolatile configuration control register is illustrated in . Register is a modified version of register such that only one erase program in latch terminology cycle may be performed to enhance corresponding nonvolatile nanotube switch yield in the 99 to 100 range as described further below with respect to . Note that in erase of nonvolatile nanotube switches correspond to programming an electronic fuse. is a modified version of register stage in . Nonvolatile configuration register file receives input data in the form of an input data stream of logic 1s and 0 s that is loaded into register . Nonvolatile configuration register file stages are a modified version of nonvolatile file stages described further above with respect to such that only one erase cycle operation is permitted in order to enhance yield to the 99 to 100 range. In this sense nonvolatile configuration register file operation is similar to the operation of nonvolatile configuration register file when operated in an OTP mode allowing an erase programming in latch terminology cycle and is also similar to with configuration selection circuit using configuration control register for example and nonvolatile configuration latches . . . N M using latch circuit or latch circuit to supply control signals S . . . S N M .

In operation this second nonvolatile configuration register may be changed only once using a half cycle erase operation. This operating mode is described further below with respect to .

OTP nonvolatile register latch is a modification of nonvolatile register file illustrated in in which erase enable NFET is eliminated and replaced with NFETs and inverter and corresponding connections. One terminal of NFET is connected to ground and other terminal is connected to NFET which is in turn connected to node . The input to NFET is controlled by output of high voltage translator circuit and the input of NFET is controlled by the output of inverter . The input of inverter in connected to the output of inverter which also drives the gate of PFET .

In operation PROGRAM ENABLE of nonvolatile register file stage shown in has been eliminated and converted to an OTP ERASE ENABLE input as shown in nonvolatile configuration control stage shown in . Programming has been eliminated and one erase half cycle is permitted.

Nonvolatile Signal Control Sources Based on Nanotube Nonvolatile Latches Used to Optimize Critical Path Timings for Higher Speed with in Creased Yield

Nonvolatile register files described further above include high speed volatile registers typically comprising a master and slave latch per stage and a nonvolatile nanotube switch NV NT Switch coupled to each slave latch for example. The NV NT Switch may be directly coupled to the slave latch or may be coupled using a coupling circuit. In addition to optimizing the yield of nonvolatile operation of nonvolatile register file latches as described further above there is a need to optimize the high speed performance of volatile registers as well. Also not all register files need to be nonvolatile. However register files require high speed high clock speed synchronous operation.

At high clock speeds in excess of 1 GHz for example the yield of register latches is reduced due to device parameter variations that cause logic delays or cache delays. Such parameter variations occur from lot to lot during fabrication and also change under field use. For example a synchronous CPU and on board cache may require a cache access time of 170 ps or even less for example to ensure that the data read from the cache is ready at the CPU terminals one clock cycle after a CPU data request is initiated.

A variable delay circuit may be introduced in critical clocking and or signal paths to optimize performance and minimize yield loss due to lot to lot parameter variation during fabrication and parameter changes such as parameter drift during product operation in the field. Latch circuits with nonvolatile nanotube switches NV NT Switches that may be in an ON state an OFF state and toggled between ON and OFF states are used to optimize critical timing paths.

Variations in process parameters that cause variation in transistor electrical characteristics and interconnect line resistance and capacitance may result in logic race conditions that introduce logic errors. For example logic 1 in may include one or more logic paths with relatively long delay times that prevent completion of a logic operation before a CLK transition results in logic 1 state sampling by master L latch M. Premature sampling of a logic 1 state results in the latching and transmission of an incorrect logic state. Such a race condition problem may only occur in one particularly sensitive logic circuit such as logic 1 in this example or on several logic circuit paths. Critical design paths sensitive to parameter variations are usually known as a result of logic simulation. Allowances are made in clock CLK and CLK timings to avoid such race condition problems. However as clock rates in crease from 1 Gb to 2 Gb to greater than 5 Gb for example then performance optimization becomes more critical and yield loss may occur at high clock rates.

Output driver receives signal Vthrough the cache on chip data path. Output driver is shown as a tristate driver however a non tristate may be used in some applications. Tristate drivers are well known in the industry see for example R. J. Baker CMOS Circuit Design Layout and Simulation IEEE Press 1598 p. 226 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. An output inverter driver is formed using NFET transistor T and PFET transistor T with respective T and T gates electrically connected to common inverter input and T drain and T drain connected to common output terminal . The drain of tristate PFET T is connected the source of T the source of T is connected to a power supply such as V and the gate of T is connected to the output of inverter INV whose input is connected to common tristate input . The drain of tristate NFET T is connected to the source of T the source of T is connected to ground and the gate of T is connected to common tristate input .

In operation if tristate driver has tristate mode activated V 0 volts and T and T are an OFF state. Output node cannot be connected to power supply Vor to ground for any value of signal V Thus the node voltage is not defined by tristate driver but may instead be set by other tristate drivers not shown that share node . When cache is activated by a request for data as illustrated in then the cache memory controller causes Vto transition from zero to a positive voltage that turns T and T transistors to an ON state. In this tristate de activated mode transistor T drain is connected to Vthrough transistor T and transistor T source is connected to ground through transistor T and Vcontrols Voutput signal on node . In response to a CPU data request as illustrated in inverter drive signal Vis provided by the cache on chip data path that may include predriver stages not shown .

In operation variations in transistor parameters due to fabrication as well as parameter drift during operation over time in the field can result in variability in the location of valid data window . waveforms illustrate fast data path valid data window in which output data Vis available early in the clock cycle. Clock read data transition occurs at the trailing edge of valid data window where data may be faulty as illustrated in . waveforms illustrates slow data path valid data window in which output data Vis available late in the clock cycle. Clock read data transition occurs at the leading edge of valid data widow where data may be faulty as illustrated in . What is needed is a way to minimized valid data window variations to optimize system performance yield and reliability.

In operation variability in the location of the valid data window because of variations in transistor parameters due to fabrication as well as parameter drift during operation over time in the field are eliminated as illustrated by waveform in . Waveform illustrates waveform Vwith CLK data capture transition in the center of valid data window .

In one example controllable clock delays may be introduced in pipelined synchronous logic functions such as pipelined synchronous logic function illustrated in where controllable delay circuit may be used as controllable delay circuits and .

In another example controllable signal delay may be introduced in a synchronous CPU and cache system illustrated in where controllable delay circuit is used as controllable delay circuit . CPU may operate at a clock frequency of 2 GHz with a one clock cycle cache access time of 170 ps. Therefore from CPU data request to cache data available is 170 ps. Assuming the valid data window is 150 ps delay paths may be set as follows path approximately zero path as approximately 30 ps path as approximately 80 ps and path approximately 150 ps. Controllable circuit delay selects one of data paths to position the center of valid data window at or near clock data transition time as illustrated by waveforms in .

Delay select logic inputs V and Vare used to select one of four select signals S . . . S. Vand Vare outputs of NT Switch Latch and NT Switch Latch respectively. NT Switch Latch and correspond to latch circuit illustrated in which include nonvolatile nanotube switches that use scaled nanotube fuses nt Fuses and may be programmed and erased multiple times. Terminology described further above is used. For example in a latch circuit application transition from an ON to OFF state transition is referred to as programming erase in NV NT Switch and OFF to ON is referred to as erasing programming in NV NT Switch . Input signals V V V V and Vare described further above with respect to latch . These input signals are supplied by delay controller . The logic inputs to delay controller are used to select one of four delay paths by enabling the programming of each of the NT Switch latches and to a programmed or erased state with Vin a high or low voltage state and Vin a high or low voltage state as described further above with respect to latch . Driver circuit and generate Vsignal inputs as described further below. Logic inputs to delay controller may be supplied through logic not shown by testers in a fabricator and or may be supplied by on board built in self test BIST test engines not shown for field upgraded performance optimization.

With respect to delay circuits illustrated in delay path is approximately zero delay path may be set at 30 ps if inverters I and I are each designed for 15 ps delay path may be set at 80 ps if inverters I I I and I are designed for 20 ps delay and delay path may be set at 150 ps if inverters I I I I I and I are designed for 25 ps delay. CMOS inverter designs follow known industry practices. With respect to waveforms illustrated in for a valid data window of 150 ps for example choosing one of delay paths may place clock data timing transition at or near the mid point of valid data window . Circuit may be designed with more data paths or combinations of data paths for more precise signal delay control increments.

Driver circuits and are activated when changing the state of NV NT Switches such as NV NT Switches in latch circuit illustrated in where latch circuit operation corresponds to the operation of nonvolatile NT Switch Latches and as described further above. Three driver circuits and examples are provided in . A first driver circuit illustrated in uses a voltage translator circuit to provide an output source voltage V corresponding to Vand Villustrated in without current control. A second driver circuit illustrated in uses a voltage translator to provide an output voltage V and also a means of controlling output current I using a voltage Vapplied to the gate of a series transistor to limit current flow as needed. A third driver circuit illustrated in uses a voltage translator to provide a voltage output to a current mirror that in turn controls the output current I associated with the V output.

Driver circuits and which may utilize driver circuits or or for example may alter the state of a NV NT Switch in each of NV Switch latches and and thus determine the state of Vand V high voltage or low voltage as illustrated in table 3. A high voltage HIGH V output corresponds to a NV NT Switch in the ON position and low voltage LOW V output corresponds to a NV NT Switch in the OFF position as described further above with respect to latch circuit illustrated in . NV NT Switch cycling results illustrated in show a NV NT Switch operating range having ON resistance Rin approximately a range of 10 kOhm to 50 kOhm and an OFF resistance Rof greater than 10 GOhms.

Driver circuit illustrated in includes driver an inverter INV and voltage translator . Driver has an input supplied by a delay controller such as delay controller . The output of driver circuit drives the gate of NFET T and the input of inverter INV whose output drives the gate of transistor T.

Voltage translator includes NFETs T and T with source connected to ground and drains connected to the drains of PFETs T and T respectively. The sources of PFET T and T are both connected to voltage source V. Vmay range from a typical value of 8 volts to less than 5 volts depending on the channel length of the NV NT Switches used in latch circuits and as illustrated by curves in . The gate connections of PFETs T and T are cross coupled. The output voltage Von voltage translator output terminal controls the output voltage without additional current control circuits. Terminal is connected to one terminal of a NV NT Switch in a latch circuit for example terminal of latch circuit illustrated in .

In operation if the output of driver is a positive voltage 2.5 volts for example then NFET T is ON and NFET T is OFF. Output terminal is at ground turning PFET T ON which drives terminal to Vturning PFET T OFF. Vis at zero voltage. However if driver is at zero volts then NFET T is OFF and NFET T is ON. Terminal is at zero volts which turns PFET T ON which drives terminal to Vturning PFET T OFF. Vis at voltage V which is typically in the 5 to 8 volts range for example resulting in a change of state for a connected NV NT Switch such as NV NT Switch in latch illustrated in with terminal connected to terminal .

When driving NV NT Switches such as switch illustrated in the addition of a current limiting circuit may facilitate transition from an ON state to an OFF state or from an OFF state to an ON state. Driver is the same as driver except that output node of voltage translator is connected to first terminal of a transfer device whose gate second terminal is controlled by V with a third terminal providing output voltage Vat current I. Current I is determined by the voltage Vinput voltage as well as the voltage on terminals and . Transfer device may be operated in a linear region or a current saturated region. Driver circuit provides both Vand current limitation I at output terminal . Vis at voltage V which is typically in the 5 to 8 volts range for example resulting in a change of state for a connected NV NT Switch such as NV NT Switch in latch illustrated in with terminal connected to terminal . Current I may typically be controlled in the 1 to 50 uA range.

In operation driver is similar to the operation of driver described further above except that current is limited to a current I when supplying output voltage V.

When driving NV NT Switches such as switch illustrated in the addition of a current limiting circuit using a transfer gate such as transfer gate illustrated in may not provide sufficient current control. Driver illustrated in introduces current mirror for more precise control of current I . Current I is determined by resistor R in series with NFET T with gate connected to drain and source connected to V. NFET T also has source connected to V has gate connected to the gate of NFET T with drain connected to the drain of PFET T. The source of PFET T is connected to output of voltage translator and the gate and drain of PFET T are connected. Output PFET T has gate connected to the gate of PFET T the source of PFET T is connected to terminal and the drain of PFET T drives output which is connected to one terminal of a NV NT Switch. PFET T device supplies Vwith current constrained to I . Driver circuit provides Vand current limited to I at the output terminal . Vis at voltage V which is typically in the 5 to 8 volts range for example resulting in a change of state for a connected NV NT Switch such as NV NT Switch in latch illustrated in with terminal connected to terminal . Current I may typically be controlled in the 1 to 50 uA range.

In operation driver is similar to the operation of driver described further above except that current is limited to a current I by using a current mirror when supplying output voltage V. Current mirror provides better control of output current. Current mirror operation is described in the reference R. J. Baker CMOS Circuit Design Layout and Simulation IEEE Press 1998 pp. 427 433.

NV NT Switch cycling results illustrated in show an operating range having ON resistance Rin approximately a range of 10 kOhm to 50 kOhm and an OFF resistance Rof greater than 10 GOhms. Such ON and OFF range of NV NT Switch resistance values may be used for multiple adjustments of delay circuit for timing optimization at the time of fabrication and during product operation in the field as described further above.

NV NT Switch Rand Rvalues have been measured as fabricated in the ON state and after cycling. Some NV NT Switches display similar values for as fabricated and cycled Rvalues. Other NV NT Switches display lower as fabricated Rresistance values and higher cycled Rvalues in some cases cycled Rvalues may be 10 higher for example. Rvalues are typically in the 1 GOhm and higher range.

NV NT switch resistance is formed by series parallel combinations of SWNT to SWNT MWNT to MWNT and SWNT to MWNT combinations that form a continuous electrical path between two terminals as illustrated by NV NT switch in . NV NT switch OFF resistance values are typically 100 MOhms and higher and often greater than 10 GOhms and are typically several orders of magnitude greater than ON resistance values. NV NT switch ON resistance values may range from 1 kOhms to 1 MOhms for example. NV NT switch ON and OFF resistance cycling results illustrated in used a programmable laboratory voltage source with current limiting during program OFF to ON state transition from greater than 10 GOhms to an ON resistance range of 10 kOhms to 50 kOhms. For certain applications such as NRAM arrays described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 280 786 and 11 280 599 it is desirable to achieve a tighter ON resistance distribution such as a resistance range variation not greater than 2 for example. A resistance control circuit for programming NV NT circuits is described further below.

Nonvolatile nanotube switch resistance control circuit illustrated in includes a modified on chip differential amplifier bit line driver resistors R and R and output PFET T. Differential amplifier design operation and simulation is described in the reference R. Baker et al. CMOS Circuit Design Layout and Simulation IEEE Press 1998 pp. 579 595 and driver circuit design and operation is described in the reference H. G. Bakoglu Circuits Interconnections and Packaging for VLSI Addison Wesley Publishing Co. 1990 pp. 171 178 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Resistor network R and R in series having node A with voltage Vand carrying a current I has been added to a first input of differential amplifier which is also the gate of NFET T as illustrated in . also includes output PMOS device T with a large width W to channel length L W L ratio 10 1 to 100 1 or greater for example the source of T connected to voltage bit line driver output V and drain of T connected to common node B at voltage Vof NV NT switch resistance control circuit . The gate of PFET T is connected to differential amplifier output D. NV NT switch resistance control circuit output node B is also connected to a second input of differential amplifier which is also the gate of NFET T and also to bit line BL of NRAM array cell . Bit line driver output voltage Vis supplied to one terminal of resistor R the source of PFET T and the voltage supply to differential amplifier . A resistance network is formed that includes R R the channel resistance of PFET T and R where Ris the resistance of the nonvolatile nanotube switch SW in NRAM array cell is used to control the programmed resistance value Rof switch SW as illustrated in . In operation as described further below program voltage V Vand CuiTent Iresult in a transition of switch SW from an OFF to ON state and current flow is reduced to below program current values when voltage Vis approximately equal to voltage V. Program current values may be in the range of 1 uA to 50 uA as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 280 786.

In operation transistors T T and T are typically in the ON state. Transistor T is in the linear region controlled by resistors R and R. The voltage on the gate of PFET T is controlled by common node C. Transistor T controls the level of common node D. PFET T is in an ON state linear region during an initial transition of Rfrom a high resistance OFF state to a lower resistance ON state. W L ratios of the FETs in NV NT switch resistance control circuit are optimized using known circuit simulation techniques see Baker et al. reference above for example for FETs at a given technology node and for a corresponding nonvolatile nanotube switch SW of selected channel length and width such that NV NT switch resistance control circuit turns transistor T OFF when Rof NV NT switch SW is at a predetermined ON resistance value which causes node D to rise and turn PFET T OFF thus ending the program cycle at NV NT switch SW ON resistance value R. The ON resistance value of NV NT switch SW may be programmed to a predetermined resistance value in the 1 kOhm to 1 MOhm range for example which occurs when Vis approximately equal to V.

As Vapproaches a program voltage value V typically in the 3.5 to 8 volt range for example Ris programmed and Rtransitions to the ON state. When the value of Ris not directly controlled using a circuit such as NV NT switch resistance control circuit during programming the post program ON resistance value of Rmay be in the range of 10 K to 1 M for example a function of the number of activated serial parallel paths in the ON state of nonvolatile nanotube switch SW. The value of the ON resistance value of Rmay range from 10 K to 1 M for the same switch for example as the switch goes through cycles from erase to program to erase to program for millions of cycles. Switch resistance control circuit ensures that the ON resistance Rof switch SW is approximately equal to a value in the 10 K to 1 M range 25 K may be selected for example.

Controller with inputs INP to INPN is used to provide logic function and timing control signals. PFET T is used to isolate NV NT switch resistance control circuit from bit line BL during other operations such as erase and read. The W L ratio of PFET T is sufficiently large that the ON resistance of PFET T is negligible compared to the ON resistance of transistor T for example.

In a programming operation controller activates data I O buffer which receives input data from the I O signal node. Controller turns PFET T ON electrically connecting NV NT switch resistance control circuit and bit line BL. Controller also activates bit line driver in NV NT switch resistance control circuit which provides output Vas described further above with respect to for controlled switch resistance programming operation.

Read pre charge circuit includes an inverter formed by PFET T and NFET T and pre charge PFET T and is connected to bit line BL voltage source V and controller . Bit line BL is also connected to sense amplifier latch through isolating transistor T which is turned ON during a read operation. Sense amplifier latch is also connected to data I O buffer a voltage source Vwhich may be 1 to 5 volts for example Vwhich may be 1 to 2 volts for example and controller .

In a read operation control signal applies pre charge activation signal Vto pre charge circuit pre charging bit line BL to V 1 to 2 volts for example. Controller also activates isolation transistor T provides sense amplifier activation signals Vand V and sets data I O buffer to receive a read output signal from sense amplifier latch and apply a corresponding logic output signal to the I O signal node. Controller deactivates programming circuit NV NT switch resistance control circuit isolation PFET T and erase driver .

Erase Driver is connected to bit line BL erase voltage source V and controller . Vis typically in the range of 5 to 12 volts for example.

In an erase operation NRAM array cell is activated by turning Ttransistor ON. Erase driver output voltage is then ramped from zero to V. If switch SW is in the ON state then switch SW transitions to the OFF state. If switch SW is in the OFF state then it remains in the OFF state. After switch SW is erased then erase driver output voltage transitions to zero volts. Erase driver in the OFF state presents a high impedance to bit line BL. Controller deactivates programming circuit NV NT switch resistance control circuit isolation PFET T pre charge circuit sense amplifier and isolation NFET T.

NV NT switch resistance may be formed by a series parallel combination of pathway or network resistances impedances of individual nanotubes and contact terminals such as first contact to SWNT to SWNT to second contact resistance first contact to MWNT to MWNT to second contact resistance first contact to SWNT to MWNT to second contact resistance first contact to SWNT to second contact resistance first contact to MWNT to second contact resistance and other combinations. NV NT switch resistance between a first contact and second contact may be switched into a high resistance state Rsuch as 100 MOhm to 1 GOhm and even higher 10 GOhm for example by an erase operation that may also be referred to as a write operation. A voltage contrast SEM of a NV NT switch illustrated in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 835 651 entitled Nonvolatile Nanotube Diodes and Nonvolatile Nanotube Blocks and Systems Using Same and Methods of Making Same filed concurrently herewith and shows a discontinuous electrical pathway network between a first contact and a second contact for R. Alternatively NV NT switch resistance between a first contact and a second contact may be switched to a low resistance state Rbetween 1 kOhm and 1 MOhm for example by a program operation that may also be referred to as a write operation. A voltage contrast SEM of the same NV NT switch described further above and shows a continuous electrical pathway network between a first contact and a second contact for R. NRAM memory array operations such as erase write program write and read are defined in patent publication US 2006 0250856 the entire contents of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The NV NT switch resistance value Rof NV NT switch SW illustrated in NRAM array cell may be set to a predetermined value by using a feedback approach by NRAM NV NT switch memory system illustrated in . illustrates a resistance control circuit essentially a differential amplifier powered by the bit line driver that supplies voltage and current to NRAM array cell through transistors T and T. The FET channel ON resistance of transistors T T and Tis typically much lower than the NV NT switch resistance Rso almost all the bit line driver voltage Vappears across NV NT switch SW. Controller causes bit line driver to apply a ramp or multiple pulses of increasing amplitude Vto bit line BL which are in turn applied to NV NT switch SW through select transistor T. Assuming NV NT switch SW in NRAM array cell is in an erased or Rstate then the applied ramp or multiple pulses of increasing amplitude Vcauses the resistance of NV NT switch SW to transition to an ON state R. Vcontinues to increase until R R at which point the resistance control circuit a differential amplifier turns off transistor T and the program operation write to the desired Rvalue is complete. Therefore the NV NT switch SW R corresponding to R value is approximately equal to R. R may be varied over a broad range of values resulting in R R values that cover a broad range of Rresistance values in the kilo Ohm range for example. Rand Rare nonvolatile resistance states that are maintained even in the absence of applied voltages. A description of differential amplifier operation such as the differential amplifier used in resistance control circuit may be found in Baker et al. CMOS Circuit Design Layout and Simulation IEEE Press pp. 579 591 1998 .

While resistance control circuit is used to program the Rresistance value of NV NT switch SW in NRAM array cell in the example given by the NRAM NV NT switch memory subsystem illustrated in controller and sense amplifier latch may be used without resistance control circuit to achieve Rresistance value control. As explained further below a fabricated 8 Kb NRAM memory corresponding to the NRAM memory array illustrated in patent publication US 2006 0250856 and corresponding NRAM NV NT switch memory subsystem but without resistance control circuit was tested and demonstrated resistance change from a high resistance Rstate in excess of 100 MOhm most NV NT switch resistance values in excess of 1 GOhm to multiple low nonvolatile Rresistance states programmed in a resistance range from approximately 50 kOhms to 1 MOhm. Programming multiple nonvolatile Rresistance states by voltage modulation was achieved by the application of multiple increasing bit line voltage programming pulses and included cell readout of the NV NT switch resistance state after each voltage pulse. The NRAM memory array in patent publication US 2006 0250856 includes a matrix of nonvolatile storage cells C through Cnm. The NRAM memory array also includes erase write program write and read word lines WL WL to WLn erase write program write and read secondary word lines WWL WWL to WWLn and erase write program write and read bit lines BL BL to BLm . A word line signal generator not shown provides word line signals to the memory cells. A secondary word line signal generator not shown provides secondary word line signals to the memory cells. In some applications secondary word lines are all connected to a reference voltage such as ground. A bit line signal generator not shown provides bit line signals to the memory cells. The fabricated 8 Kb NRAM memory array included selectable options of voltage sensing similar to sense amplifier latch or current sensing. Current sensing may comprise any known current sensing circuitry such as for example the current differential sense amplifier of and corresponding description of Baker et al. CMOS Circuit Design Layout and Simulation IEEE Press PP. 607 608 1998 .

Programming by current modulation of nonvolatile Rresistance states was also measured using the fabricated 8 Kb NRAM memory array described further above by the application of multiple increasing bit line current programming pulses and included cell readout of the multiple NV NT switch resistance states after each current step. Current modulation of nonvolatile Rresistance is described further below.

NV NT switches may be programmed over a wide range of resistance states as described further below. Multilevel storage in the context of NV NT switches used as storage element refers to multiple resistance states on each NV NT switch and correspond to the storage of multiple logic states on the same NV NT switch. So for example two resistance states such as Rand Rcorrespond to the storage of one logic state or one bit of information per NV NT switch. However Rand three Rresistance states values correspond to two logic states or two bits of information per NV NT switch. Because multilevel storage or states refers to multiple NV NT switch resistance states other terms such as multistate storage multiresistance states multiple resistance states and other variations may be used in the description further below.

Programming Multiple NRAM Cell Resistance States Using Programming Voltage Modulation of Nonvolatile Nanotube Switch Resistance

A memory tester was used to control the fabricated 8 Kb NRAM memory described further above. The memory tester provides addresses data timings and other functions to the fabricated 8 Kb NRAM memory operation. Testing was at wafer level with some testing at module level. In alternate embodiments other testing mechanisms could be used. In this example a 1 Kb NRAM subset of the 8 Kb NRAM memory described further above was tested with secondary word lines grounded and NRAM memory array cells accessed using word lines and bit lines. An erase write operation was performed and over 1000 bits were switched to an OFF resistance R state of at least 100 MOhms. Next bit line voltage pulses were applied through select FET devices to the corresponding NV NT switches for activated word lines. Applied bit line programming voltage pulses started at 2.4 volts and increased in 200 mV 0.2 V steps to 7 volts. After each pulse a tester readout was performed to determine how many of the 1000 bits conducted at least 1 uA of current with an applied readout voltage of approximately 1 V using a current sense amplifier latch with an approximately 1 uA current detect level. In addition an actual cell current measurement was recorded by the memory tester. NV NT switches that conduct at least 1 uA are in multiple nonvolatile Rresistance states. provides various graphical representations of the results of the present testing example.

NV NT switch multiple resistance states are grouped into three Rranges and one Rrange as illustrated by graphical representation . Approximately 10 of the bits switches have Rless than 150 kOhms with a corresponding cell readout current of more than 7 uA for a readout voltage of 1 volts approximately 30 of the bits switches have Rin the 150 kOhm to 250 kOhm range and a corresponding cell readout current in the range of 6 uA to 4 uA for a readout voltage of 1 volts approximately 60 of the bits switches have Rin the 250 kOhm to 1 MOhm range. In this example we elected to program all 1000 F bits. Unprogrammed bits have Rgreater than 100 MOhm range with corresponding cell readout currents typically less than 10 nA for a readout voltage of 1 volt. In other examples different resistance ranges may be preferred.

Test results of a 1000 bit subset of an 8 Kb NRAM memory illustrated by graphic representation show four resistance state ranges with four corresponding readout current ranges. Current sense amplifiers such as illustrated by the current differential sense amplifier of and corresponding description of Baker et al. CMOS Circuit Design Layout and Simulation IEEE Press PP. 607 608 1998 are capable of detecting multiple current ranges by using multiple current sense amplifier reference values. In this example four resistance ranges may be defined for the same NV NT switch comprising three Rresistance states and one Rresistance state. These four resistance states may be translated by a current sense amplifier latch to corresponding logic states 00 01 10 11. If each bit consists of a 1 and 0 value then two bits per NV NT switch may be stored. The number of resistance states are not limited to four but may be substantially greater enabling the storage of more than four logic states or two bits on each NV NT switch.

Note that while multiple Rresistance states were achieved by applying multiple program write pulses to NRAM memory array cells to reduce resistance from an Rstate to a desired Rvalue as described further above tests were also performed results not shown showing that multiple erase write voltage pulses of increasing amplitude increase Rresistance to increasingly high Rvalues and also to high resistance state R. Therefore multiple voltage pulses may be used to achieve desired NV NT switch resistance values using both program and erase operations.

Programming Multiple NRAM Cell Resistance States Using Programming Current Modulation of Nonvolatile Nanotube Switch Resistance

The fabricated SKb NRAM memory described above was designed in the present example to apply voltage pulses to NRAM memory array bit lines. In order to evaluate the use of current pulses to program multiple Rresistance states test methods described above were modified. During memory tester operations a selected block of 8 Kb NRAM memory array cells were erased to a high resistance Rstate. Then selected secondary word lines were pulsed to a programming voltage of 6.7 volts bit lines were grounded and selected word lines were used to modulate the gate voltage of select transistors in each cell thereby controlling the current flowing through the corresponding switch. After each 6.7 volt programming pulse selected secondary word lines were grounded a readout voltage of 1 volt was applied to selected bit lines selected word lines were activated and a cell current readout measurement was taken by the memory tester as described further above.

In this example the applied secondary word line voltage 6.7 volts is much greater than the word line voltage applied to the select FET transistor gate to form a corresponding FET conducting channel so the FET is in its saturated region of operation. The FET saturated current Ialso flows through the NV NT switch in series with the FET. Table in shows that the range of applied word line voltages V range from 0.9 volts to 1.4 volts and the calculated corresponding saturation current I. Iis not measured directly but is calculated from the read current Imeasured during cell readout operations performed after each program cycle. The median cell readout current Imeasured with a bit line voltage of 1 volt and is recorded in . The median Icurrent value corresponds to over 15 000 current values.

During the programming write operation the FET channel resistance is much less than the NV NT switch resistance value. Therefore almost all of the 6.7 volts applied to selected secondary word lines appears across the corresponding NV NT switch. The saturation current Icontrolled by the select FET transistor and flowing through the corresponding NV NT switch results in a voltage drop through the switch of I R I R . Since the voltage across the NV NT switch is approximately 6.7 volts then the programmed resistance value R 6.7 I. Iis not directly measurable. However since Ris a nonvolatile resistance value and the readout voltage of 1 volt is too low to disturb the nonvolatile resistance state the value of Ris the same during readout as it was after the program write operation. Therefore I R 1 volts and I I 6.7 1. Therefore the Ivalues shown in are median saturated current values that are calculated by multiplying 6.7 times the median Icurrent values. Median Rresistance values corresponding median Ivalues and can be calculated by dividing Iinto 6.7 volts.

Implementation of Memory Cells used to form Nonvolatile Nanotube Flash NFlash Memories Including Multistate Storage and Reprogrammable Nonvolatile Impedance Networks

NRAM memory storing logic states in terms of Rand one Rstate or multilevel store including Rand multiple values of Rare described further above with respect to NRAM memory array cells having a select FET and NV NT switch in series. However it is also possible to form a parallel combination of a select FET and a NV NT switch also capable of storing Rand one R or multilevel multiresistance store including Rand multiple values of Ras described further above with respect to NRAM memory applications. A parallel FET and NV NT switch combination results in a variety of new memory logic and analog applications because selection methods are different and because the parallel FET NV NT switch may be formed with the NV NT switch placed above the FET transistor thereby occupying a smaller area than a series combination. NV NT electrical characteristics are independent of voltage polarity and the direction of current flow.

Multiple combinations of parallel circuit illustrated in may be used in memory applications to form dense nanotube based nonvolatile flash memories referred to as NFlash memories in this application and described further below. Multiple series and series parallel combinations of parallel circuit and series parallel circuit may be used to form nonvolatile programmable impedance networks such as resistance and capacitance analog networks described further below.

Flash NAND memory arrays with series nonvolatile FETs are used to enhance memory array density as illustrated in FIGS. 1.35 1.36 and described in K. Itoh VLSI Memory Chip Design Springer 2001 pp. 41 44. Flash NAND memories store information as charges on floating gate FG FET transistors in series thereby controlling the threshold voltage of each of the series FG FET devices as described in the Itoh reference. Selection methods for these series FG FETs in NAND conFigured memory arrays differ from random access NOR conFigured Flash memory selection methods described in the Itoh reference pages 38 41. NOR flash selection methods are similar to those of NRAM memories described further above. When reading the state of a FG FET device in series with other FG FETs for example all series FG FETs are selected turned ON with a high word line voltage except the FG FET device to be read. The FG FET device to be read has a zero word line voltage applied to the gate. If the selected FG FET device has been programmed to be in an ON state current will flow in the series circuit discharging the bit line. If the FG FET device has been programmed in an OFF state then no current will flow in the series circuit and the bit line will remain at a high voltage level.

Parallel circuit may be substituted for FG FET transistors illustrated in FIGS. 1.35 and 1.36 in the Itoh reference to form a nonvolatile nanotube Flash memory referred to as an NFlash memory in this application. Operation of the NFlash memory is also carried out by turning all series FETs in parallel circuit type NFlash memory array cells ON except for the FET in parallel with the NV NT switch to be programmed erased or read out which is in the OFF state. Then erase program or read operations similar to those described with respect to the NRAM memory described further above may be used.

Note that while NFlash memory schematic shows two select FETs in each NAND sub array and one select FET is sufficient for NFlash memory operation. illustrates NFlash memory schematic which is the same as NFlash memory schematic except that NAND sub array uses only one select FET TRS and NAND sub array uses only one select FET TRSX. NFlash memories may be formed using NRAM memory schematic or or variations thereon.

In operation any of the NV NT switch based cells may be selected for read erase or program operation. By way of example referencing NFlash memory schematic if the state of representative switch SW is to be read all series FET devices between bit line BL and reference line REF are turned ON except FET TR which remains in the OFF unselected state. Bit line BL is precharged to a voltage such as 1 volt. If SW is in the ON state then BL is discharged. However if SW is in the OFF state then BL is not discharged. SW may be in various ON resistance states so multiple resistance states may be read. The read operation is similar to the read operation described further above with respect to multilevel NRAM memories that store multiple resistance states on each NV NT switch.

In operation by way of example referencing NFlash memory schematic if the state of representative switch SW is to be programmed all series FET devices between bit line BL and reference line REF are turned ON except FET TR which remains in the OFF unselected state. Bit line BL is pulsed at increasing voltage levels from 2.4 to 7 volts for example. If SW is in the OFF state and BL is pulsed then NV NT switch is programmed to one of a number of ON resistance Rstates so multiple resistance states may be stored on NV NT switch SW. The program operation is similar to the program operation described further above with respect to multilevel NRAM memories that store multiple resistance states on each NV NT switch.

In operation by way of example referencing NFlash memory schematic if the state of representative switch SW is to be erased all series FET devices between bit line BL and reference line REF are turned ON except FET TR which remains in the OFF unselected state. Bit line BL is pulsed at increasing voltage levels as described further above with respect to NRAM memory arrays. If SW is in an ON state and BL is pulsed then NV NT switch is erase to a higher ON resistance Rstate value or to OFF state R. The erase operation is similar to the erase operation described further above with respect to multilevel NRAM memories that store multiple resistance states on each NV NT switch.

By way of example SW and TR in parallel form a representative NV NT switch based cell that corresponds to parallel circuit illustrated in . A pair of stud vias shared by adjacent NV switch based cells define the NV NT switch length dimension and contact region for representative switch SW and form electrical connections to corresponding N diffusions of underlying FET TR.

NFlash memories are erased programmed and read in operations that correspond to those of NRAM memories. Once all series transistors forming bit line to NV NT switch and NV NT switch to reference line paths are formed and the FET in parallel with the selected NV NT switch is turned OFF then erase program and read operations correspond to those used to program NV NT switches in NRAMs as described further above.

Programmable nonvolatile multi resistance state parallel circuit and programmable nonvolatile multi resistance state series parallel circuit illustrated in respectively enable the formation of electronically controlled tuned analog networks of resistors and capacitors. Operationally erasing programming and reading the state of individual NV NT switches used to form these electronically controlled tuned impedance networks are similar to those described further above with respect to and for NFlash memory operations.

Electronically controlled series resistance network can be used to set nanotube series resistor equivalent circuit to optimize circuit function at the factory during or after fabrication or in the field after shipment or adjusted during the life of the electronic component. Also function can be changes or modified at any time during the life cycle of the electronic component.

On chip voltage regulator is similar to on chip regulators in use in the semiconductor industry. Differential amplifier operation is described in the Baker et al. reference described further above. Large PFET controls the output voltage and current at node and feedback inverter provides the means for differential amplifier to control output voltage to be approximately equal to Vas is well know in the industry.

Electronically controlled series resistance network and its application to nanotube based electronically tuned on chip voltage regulator described above with respect to respectively is one example of many useful analog networks based on multiple NV NT switches each having multi resistance states. Other examples of networks based on multiple NV NT switches each having multi resistance states are envisioned. illustrates electronically controlled series parallel resistance network formed by combinations of parallel circuit and series parallel circuit illustrated in respectively. As illustrated in both series and parallel FETs are needed in a series parallel networks to effectively isolate individual NV NT switches. Resistor setting operating mode controller operates in a similar manner to resistor setting operating mode controller except for additional outputs to turn series FETs ON and OFF during programming and erase operations. FETs TRSB and TRSB supply voltage pulses for erase program and read operations as described further above with respect to . In this example common node is coupled directly to terminal RT and common node is coupled directly to terminal RT . However if other circuits may be impacted during programming for example then series decoupling FETs may be used as illustrated in .

Individual NV NT switches in nanotube series parallel resistor network are erased programmed and read out using operating methods similar to those described further above with respect to . By way of example NV NT switch SW may be selected and tuned to one of numerous resistance states by turning FETs TR TR ON and FETs TR TR and TR OFF and applying voltage pulses between common nodes and . By way of another example NV NT switch SW may be selected and tuned to one of numerous resistance states by turning FETs TR and TR ON and TR and TR OFF and applying voltage pulses between common nodes and . Voltage pulses used are similar to those described above with respect to A and .

After program or erase of individual switches is complete then in operation all series FETs are turned ON and all parallel FETs are turned OFF.

Electronically controlled series parallel resistance network illustrated in can be changed to electronically controlled resistance capacitor network illustrated in . As illustrated in parallel circuit and series parallel circuit illustrated in respectively are used in series and capacitors are used in parallel. Resistor setting operating mode controller operates in a similar manner to resistor setting operating mode controller . FETs TRSB and TRSB supply voltage pulses for erase program and read operations as described further above with respect to . In this example common node is coupled directly to terminal RCT and common node is coupled directly to terminal RCT. However if other circuits may be impacted during programming for example then series decoupling FETs may be used as illustrated in .

Individual NV NT switches in nanotube series parallel resistor capacitor network are erased programmed and read out using operating methods similar to those described further above with respect to . By way of example NV NT switch SW may be selected and tuned to one of numerous resistance states by turning FETs TR and TR ON and FET TR OFF and applying voltage pulses between common nodes and . Voltage pulses used are similar to those described further above with respect to A A and .

After program or erase of individual switches is complete then in operation all series FETs are turned ON and all parallel FETs are turned OFF.

Adjusting resistance values Rand Rresults in tuning the RC time constant over a large range of values. Also if RSW and RSW are programmed to be relatively low resistance values then for waveforms with rise and fall times greater than the RC time constants capacitors C C and C can appear a one capacitor C C C C. Other variations are possible.

The following commonly owned patent references referred to herein as incorporated patent references describe various techniques for creating nanotube elements nanotube fabric articles and switches e.g. creating and patterning nanotube fabrics and are incorporated by reference in their entireties 

Electromechanical Memory Array Using Nanotube Ribbons and Method for Making Same U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 915 093 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 919 592 filed on Jul. 25 2001 

Electromechanical Memory Having Cell Selection Circuitry Constructed With Nanotube Technology U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 915 173 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 643 165 filed on Jul. 25 2001 

Hybrid Circuit Having Nanotube Electromechanical Memory U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 915 095 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 574 130 filed on Jul. 25 2001 

Electromechanical Three Trace Junction Devices U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 033 323 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 682 filed on Dec. 28 2001 

Methods of Making Electromechanical Three Trace Junction Devices U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 033 032 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 784 028 filed on Dec. 28 2001 

Nanotube Films and Articles U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 128 118 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 402 filed on Apr. 23 2002 

Methods of Nanotube Films and Articles U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 128 117 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 835 591 filed Apr. 23 2002 

Methods of Making Carbon Nanotube Films Layers Fabrics Ribbons Elements and Articles U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 341 005 filed on Jan. 13 2003 

Methods of Using Thin Metal Layers to Make Carbon Nanotube Films Layers Fabrics Ribbons Elements and Articles U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 341 055 filed Jan. 13 2003 

Methods of Using Pre formed Nanotubes to Make Carbon Nanotube Films Layers Fabrics Ribbons Elements and Articles U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 341 054 filed Jan. 13 2003 

Carbon Nanotube Films Layers Fabrics Ribbons Elements and Articles U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 341 130 filed Jan. 13 2003 

Non volatile Electromechanical Field Effect Devices and Circuits using Same and Methods of Forming Same U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 864 186 U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0062035 filed Jun. 9 2004 

Devices Having Horizontally Disposed Nanofabric Articles and Methods of Making the Same U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 776 059 U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0181630 filed Feb. 11 2004 

Devices Having Vertically Disposed Nanofabric Articles and Methods of Making the Same U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 776 572 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 924 538 filed Feb. 11 2004 and

Patterned Nanoscopic Articles and Methods of Making the Same U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 936 119 U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0128788 .

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

