---

title: Method and device for map switching
abstract: A method and navigation device are disclosed which allow for switching the display of map information, depending on the current position and the availability of relatively more detailed map information. In one embodiment, the method includes receiving information of a current position and displaying map information including the current position on a navigation device; determining relative map information coverage for the current position; and switching the displayed map information to display map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position, upon determining that map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position is displayable. The method may include determining a travel route based upon a travel destination input into a navigation device and determining whether or not, based upon the current position information, travel along the route enters a region wherein the relatively more detailed map information is displayable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700311&OS=08700311&RS=08700311
owner: TomTom International B.V.
number: 08700311
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20070301
---
The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present applications. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR STORING AND UTILIZING A LAST DOCKED LOCATION Ser. No. 11 712 573 filed on even date herewith A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR UTILIZING A SELECTABLE LOCATION MARKER FOR RELATIONAL DISPLAY OF POINT OF INTEREST ENTRIES Ser. No. 11 712 572 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION. DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONVEYING INFORMATION RELATIONSHIPS Ser. No. 11 712 563 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF UPDATING INFORMATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE Ser. No. 11 712 571 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE SERVER AND METHOD FOR COMMUNICATING THEREBETWEEN Ser. No. 11 712 603 filed on even date herewith A METHOD AND DEVICE FOR PROVIDING PREFERENCES DURING ROUTE TRAVEL CALCULATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE Ser. No. 11 712 562 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF ACTIVATING INFORMATION ON A NAVIGATION DEVICE Ser. No. 11 712 565 filed on even date herewith AUTOMATIC DISCOVERY OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SETTINGS Ser. No. 11 713 090 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD OF IMPLEMENTING AUDIO FEATURES IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE Ser. No. 12 736 557 filed on even date herewith METHODS OF CUSTOMIZING NAVIGATION SYSTEMS Ser. No. 11 713 089 filed on even date herewith and A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SEQUENTIAL MAP DISPLAY Ser. No. 11 712 561 filed on even date herewith.

The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 on each of Great Britain Patent Application numbers 0604709.6 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604708.8 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604710.4 filed Mar. 8 2006 0604704.7 filed Mar. 8 2006 and 0604706.2 filed Mar. 8 2006 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Navigation systems are known today which utilize Global Positioning System GPS technology to determine through triangulation techniques precise locations of devices based upon GPS signals received from the satellites.

Based on these GPS signals navigation devices utilize mapping information to further indicate location and route of travel via display of navigation maps to the user of the navigation devices. These maps are typically stored in a mass storage device connected to or encompassed within a server wherein the mapping information is transferred from the mass storage device and server via a communication channel internet TCP IP etc. and into a navigation device.

As data can be compressed and as great amounts of data can be stored in small memory devices map information is typically downloaded from the server and stored on the navigation device of the user wherein the user has the ability to purchase map information of different locations around the world. Thus at any one time the navigation device itself stores the map information needed for a user to travel along a desired route noting that additional map information for new areas of the country or of the world for example can be purchased and downloaded from a server and mass storage device.

As the navigation device itself stores much map information the navigation device is able to determine based upon a route selected including selection of a travel destination for example noting that the input position can be determined via GPS information the maps to be displayed to a user of the navigation device based upon the desired travel route. As the user is exiting an area from one map and entering an area of another map the navigation device switches the display from one map to another. This is typically done in a known manner based upon the actual position of the navigation device typically of the navigation device in the user s vehicle during travel along a desired route noting that the user may accidentally or intentionally deviate from the route and in such cases information along the new route or actual route of travel is displayed . Again maps are switched in a known manner from a display of one to the next.

In at least one embodiment of the present application it has been recognized that map information is typically switched in known devices as the user proceeds along the route and is not switched based upon preciseness of map information. Accordingly in at least one embodiment of the present application a method is directed to switching display map information to display relatively more detailed map information when available. Such a method in at least one embodiment includes determining a travel route based upon a travel destination input into a navigation device displaying map information on the navigation device conveying the determined route receiving current position information relating to travel along the determined route determining whether or not based upon the current position information travel along the route enters a region wherein relatively more detailed map information is displayable and switching the displayed map information to display relatively more detailed map information upon determining that travel along the route enters a region wherein the relatively more detailed map information is displayable.

In at least one additional embodiment of the present application the application is directed to a navigation device. The navigation device includes a processor to determine a travel route based upon a travel destination input into a navigation device an integrated input and display device to input the travel destination and to display map information conveying the determined route and a receiver to receive current position information relating to travel along the determined route the processor being further used to determine whether or not based upon the current position information travel along the route enters a region wherein the relatively more detailed map information is displayable and to control the integrated input and display device to switch the displayed map information to a display of relatively more detailed map information upon the processor determining that travel along the route enters a region wherein the relatively more detailed map information is displayable.

In at least one other embodiment the present application is directed to another method. The method includes receiving information of a current position and displaying map information including the current position on a navigation device determining relative map information coverage for the current position and switching the displayed map information to display map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position upon determining that map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position is displayable.

In at least one other embodiment the present application is directed to another navigation device. The navigation device includes a receiver to receive a current position of the navigation device an integrated input and display device to display map information including the current position and a processor to determine relative map information coverage for the current position and to control the integrated input and display device to switch display of the map information to display map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position upon determining that map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position is displayable.

In at least one additional embodiment the present application is directed to another method. The method includes determining a travel route based upon a travel destination input into a navigation device displaying a map on the navigation device conveying the determined route receiving current position information relating to travel along the determined route determining whether or not the current position information is covered by two or more maps and displaying the one of the two or more maps covering the current position information in relatively more detail in place of the previously displayed map upon determining that the current position information is covered by two or more maps.

In at least one additional embodiment of the present application the application is directed to a navigation device. The navigation device includes a processor to determine a travel route based upon a travel destination input into a navigation device an integrated input and display device to input the travel destination and to display conveying the determined route and a receiver to receive current position information relating to travel along the determined route the processor being further used to determine whether or not the current position information is covered by two or more maps and to control the integrated input and display device to display the one of the two or more maps covering the current position information in relatively more detail in place of the previously displayed map upon determining that the current position information is covered by two or more maps.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referencing the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are hereafter described. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Formerly known as NAVSTAR the GPS incorporates a plurality of satellites which work with the earth in extremely precise orbits. Based on these precise orbits GPS satellites can relay their location to any number of receiving units.

The GPS system is implemented when a device specially equipped to receive GPS data begins scanning radio frequencies for GPS satellite signals. Upon receiving a radio signal from a GPS satellite the device determines the precise location of that satellite via one of a plurality of different conventional methods. The device will continue scanning in most instances for signals until it has acquired at least three different satellite signals noting that position is not normally but can be determined with only two signals using other triangulation techniques . Implementing geometric triangulation the receiver utilizes the three known positions to determine its own two dimensional position relative to the satellites. This can be done in a known manner. Additionally acquiring a fourth satellite signal will allow the receiving device to calculate its three dimensional position by the same geometrical calculation in a known manner. The position and velocity data can be updated in real time on a continuous basis by an unlimited number of users.

As shown in the GPS system is denoted generally by reference numeral . A plurality of satellites are in orbit about the earth . The orbit of each satellite is not necessarily synchronous with the orbits of other satellites and in fact is likely asynchronous. A GPS receiver usable in embodiments of navigation devices of the present application is shown receiving spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from the various satellites .

The spread spectrum signals continuously transmitted from each satellite utilize a highly accurate frequency standard accomplished with an extremely accurate atomic clock. Each satellite as part of its data signal transmission transmits a data stream indicative of that particular satellite . It is appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art that the GPS receiver device generally acquires spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from at least three satellites for the GPS receiver device to calculate its two dimensional position by triangulation. Acquisition of an additional signal resulting in signals from a total of four satellites permits the GPS receiver device to calculate its three dimensional position in a known manner.

The navigation device is located within a housing not shown . The housing includes a processor connected to an input device and a display screen . The input device can include a keyboard device voice input device and or any other known input device utilized to input information and the display screen can include any type of display screen such as an LCD display for example. In at least one embodiment of the present application the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device including a touchpad or touchscreen input wherein a user need only touch a portion of the display screen to select one of a plurality of display choices or to activate one of a plurality of virtual buttons.

In addition other types of output devices can also include including but not limited to an audible output device. As output device can produce audible information to a user of the navigation device it is equally understood that input device can also include a microphone and software for receiving input voice commands as well.

In the navigation device processor is operatively connected to and set to receive input information from input device via a connection and operatively connected to at least one of display screen and output device via output connections to output information thereto. Further the processor is operatively connected to memory via connection and is further adapted to receive send information from to input output I O ports via connection wherein the I O port is connectable to an I O device external to the navigation device . The external I O device may include but is not limited to an external listening device such as an earpiece for example. The connection to I O device can further be a wired or wireless connection to any other external device such as a car stereo unit for hands free operation and or for voice activated operation for example for connection to an ear piece or head phones and or for connection to a mobile phone for example wherein the mobile phone connection may be used to establish a TCP IP connection between the navigation device and the internet or any other network for example and or to establish a connection to a server via the internet or some other network for example.

Further it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic components shown in are powered by power sources not shown in a conventional manner. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different configurations of the components shown in are considered within the scope of the present application. For example in one embodiment the components shown in may be in communication with one another via wired and or wireless connections and the like. Thus the scope of the navigation device of the present application includes a portable or handheld navigation device .

In addition the portable or handheld navigation device of can be connected or docked in a known manner to a motorized vehicle such as a car or boat for example. Such a navigation device is then removable from the docked location for portable or handheld navigation use.

The navigation device in at least one embodiment may establish a mobile network connection with the server via a mobile device such as a mobile phone PDA and or any device with mobile phone technology establishing a digital connection such as a digital connection via known Bluetooth technology for example . Thereafter through its network service provider the mobile device can establish a network connection through the internet for example with a server . As such a mobile network connection is established between the navigation device which can be and often times is mobile as it travels alone and or in a vehicle and the server to provide a real time or at least very up to date gateway for information.

The establishing of the network connection between the mobile device via a service provider and another device such as the server using the internet for example can be done in a known manner. This can include use of TCP IP layered protocol for example. The mobile device can utilize any number of communication standards such as CDMA GSM WAN etc.

As such an internet connection may be utilized which is achieved via data connection via a mobile phone or mobile phone technology within the navigation device for example. For this connection an internet connection between the server and the navigation device is established. This can be done for example through a mobile phone or other mobile device and a GPRS General Packet Radio Service connection GPRS connection is a high speed data connection for mobile devices provided by telecom operators GPRS is a method to connect to the internet.

The navigation device can further complete a data connection with the mobile device and eventually with the internet and server via existing Bluetooth technology for example in a known manner wherein the data protocol can utilize any number of standards such as the GSRM the Data Protocol Standard for the GSM standard for example.

The navigation device may include its own mobile phone technology within the navigation device itself including an antenna for example wherein the internal antenna of the navigation device can further alternatively be used . The mobile phone technology within the navigation device can include internal components as specified above and or can include an insertable card complete with necessary mobile phone technology and or an antenna for example. As such mobile phone technology within the navigation device can similarly establish a network connection between the navigation device and the server via the internet for example in a manner similar to that of any mobile device .

For GRPS phone settings the Bluetooth enabled device may be used to correctly work with the ever changing spectrum of mobile phone models manufacturers etc. model manufacturer specific settings may be stored on the navigation device for example. The data stored for this information can be updated in a manner discussed in any of the embodiments previous and subsequent.

The server includes in addition to other components which may not be illustrated a processor operatively connected to a memory and further operatively connected via a wired or wireless connection to a mass data storage device . The processor is further operatively connected to transmitter and receiver to transmit and send information to and from navigation device via communications channel . The signals sent and received may include data communication and or other propagated signals. The transmitter and receiver may be selected or designed according to the communications requirement and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation system . Further it should be noted that the functions of transmitter and receiver may be combined into a signal transceiver.

Server is further connected to or includes a mass storage device noting that the mass storage device may be coupled to the server via communication link . The mass storage device contains a store of navigation data and map information and can again be a separate device from the server or can be incorporated into the server .

The navigation device is adapted to communicate with the server through communications channel and includes processor memory etc. as previously described with regard to as well as transmitter and receiver to send and receive signals and or data through the communications channel noting that these devices can further be used to communicate with devices other than server . Further the transmitter and receiver are selected or designed according to communication requirements and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation device and the functions of the transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single transceiver.

Software stored in server memory provides instructions for the processor and allows the server to provide services to the navigation device . One service provided by the server involves processing requests from the navigation device and transmitting navigation data from the mass data storage to the navigation device . According to at least one embodiment of the present application another service provided by the server includes processing the navigation data using various algorithms for a desired application and sending the results of these calculations to the navigation device .

The communication channel generically represents the propagating medium or path that connects the navigation device and the server . According to at least one embodiment of the present application both the server and navigation device include a transmitter for transmitting data through the communication channel and a receiver for receiving data that has been transmitted through the communication channel.

The communication channel is not limited to a particular communication technology. Additionally the communication channel is not limited to a single communication technology that is the channel may include several communication links that use a variety of technology. For example according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can be adapted to provide a path for electrical optical and or electromagnetic communications etc. As such the communication channel includes but is not limited to one or a combination of the following electric circuits electrical conductors such as wires and coaxial cables fiber optic cables converters radio frequency rf waves the atmosphere empty space etc. Furthermore according to at least one various embodiment the communication channel can include intermediate devices such as routers repeaters buffers transmitters and receivers for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application for example the communication channel includes telephone and computer networks. Furthermore in at least one embodiment the communication channel may be capable of accommodating wireless communication such as radio frequency microwave frequency infrared communication etc. Additionally according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can accommodate satellite communication.

The communication signals transmitted through the communication channel include but are not limited to signals as may be required or desired for given communication technology. For example the signals may be adapted to be used in cellular communication technology such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Both digital and analogue signals can be transmitted through the communication channel . According to at least one embodiment these signals may be modulated encrypted and or compressed signals as may be desirable for the communication technology.

The mass data storage includes sufficient memory for the desired navigation applications. Examples of the mass data storage may include magnetic data storage media such as hard drives for example optical storage media such as CD Roms for example charged data storage media such as flash memory for example molecular memory etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server includes a remote server accessible by the navigation device via a wireless channel. According to at least one other embodiment of the application the server may include a network server located on a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server may include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer and the communication channel may be a cable connected between the personal computer and the navigation device . Alternatively a personal computer may be connected between the navigation device and the server to establish an internet connection between the server and the navigation device . Alternatively a mobile telephone or other handheld device may establish a wireless connection to the internet for connecting the navigation device to the server via the internet.

The navigation device may be provided with information from the server via information downloads which may be periodically updated upon a user connecting navigation device to the server and or may be more dynamic upon a more constant or frequent connection being made between the server and navigation device via a wireless mobile connection device and TCP IP connection for example. For many dynamic calculations the processor in the server may be used to handle the bulk of the processing needs however processor of navigation device can also handle much processing and calculation oftentimes independent of a connection to a server .

The mass storage device connected to the server can include volumes more cartographic and route data than that which is able to be maintained on the navigation device itself including maps etc. The server may process for example the majority of the devices of a navigation device which travel along the route using a set of processing algorithms. Further the cartographic and route data stored in memory can operate on signals e.g. GPS signals originally received by the navigation device .

In one embodiment the present application is directed to a map switching method. In such a method a route of travel is determined based upon a travel destination input into a navigation device . The input via input device of the travel destination may be that of direct input of information selection of information from one of a plurality of menus look up of information based upon an address etc. Thereafter the method includes displaying map information on display the navigation device conveying the determined route. Of course the input device and display device may be integrated in the form of a touchscreen for example.

As travel takes place along the determined route current position information is then received via receipt of GPS signals via receiver for example . Based upon the current position information it is determined whether or not travel along the route enters a region where relatively more detailed map information is displayable e.g. available for display due to storage in memory for example . Upon determining that travel along the route enters a region wherein the relatively more detailed map information is displayable the displayed map information is switched to display relatively more detailed map information on display device .

As such the navigation device constantly checks its memory for appropriate map information and determines in conjunction with processor when relatively more detailed map information is displayable e.g. available to be displayed on display screen . When available for display this more detailed map information is then displayed in place of previously displayed map information thereby providing the user with more detailed information than before.

The concept of this map switching in at least one embodiment of the invention is as follows. First for any area there are typically two or more maps stored in memory . Each map either covers the whole of an area such as the United States or a particular state or a part of that area.

For any point or position location in the United States or Europe for example and for any map a number may be assigned to indicate how well that particular point or position location is covered on the map. For example relatively higher numbers can indicate relatively higher coverage and thus relatively more detailed map information covering a particular position location in relatively more detail and relatively lower numbers can indicate a relatively less detailed map information covering a particular position location in relatively less detail.

Although the embodiments of the present application are not so limited a simple example can include using a zero to indicate no coverage a one to indicate relatively low detailed coverage or map information and a two to indicate relatively high detail coverage of a relatively more detailed map information. Typically at least one map stored in the memory of the navigation device covers all of one area such as all of Europe or all of the United States for example in at some level of detail. In at least one embodiment of the present application at strategic moments when the navigation device determines that a particular current location P for example in Europe or the United States is one including relatively higher coverage it can automatically switch to the map for which current location P has the relatively highest coverage.

Thus in at least one embodiment as the user is traveling along the route and as current position information is received for each point P the processor may determine whether or not relatively more detailed map information is available for display. If available the display map information can be automatically switched for example to display relatively more detailed map information.

In at least one embodiment each of the determining displaying and switching occurs within the navigation device itself wherein processor receives position information via GPS antenna receiver for example determines whether or not relatively more detailed map information is available for display by comparing stored information regarding map detail coverage in memory for current position point P for example and then retrieves the more detailed map information when available for display from memory to thereby control a switch of map information display on display screen of the navigation device . Thus both the displayed map information and the relatively more detailed map information are stored in memory within the navigation device for selection by processor of the navigation device .

In at least one embodiment as previously described the assigned level of detail for the current position P on two or more maps is examined by the processor wherein a zero can indicate no coverage for example a 1 can indicate relatively low detailed coverage and a 2 can indicate relatively high detailed coverage for example. Thus for each position a level of map detail of the position of the map is assigned. As such the processor may use the assigned level of detail for the current position information on two or more maps upon determining that travel along the route enters a region wherein the relatively more detailed map information is displayable to determine which of the two or more maps includes map information with the relatively more detailed map information.

If there is a tie between several maps other stored tie breaking rules or other criteria can be used to determine which map is to be displayed in the case of a tie. For example the tie can be broken in any number of ways including but not limited to the map including the current position having the highest coverage may be preferred by processor over others the map currently loaded and displayed on display screen can be preferred over others the map in which the current travel destination has the highest coverage may be preferred over others the map in which the points on the current route has the highest coverage may be preferred over others etc. These and other criteria can be applied individually or in any combination.

Of course although the method is generally described above at least one embodiment of the present application also encompasses a navigation device itself. The navigation device includes a processor to determine a travel route based upon a travel destination input into the navigation device an integrated input and display device encompassing display and input device for example to input the travel destination and to display map information conveying the determined route and a receiver to receive current position information relating to travel along the determined route the processor being further used to determine whether or not based upon the current position information travel along the route enters a region wherein the relatively more detailed map information is displayable and to control the integrated input and display device to switch the displayed map information to a display of relatively more detailed map information upon the processor determining that travel along the route enters a region wherein the relatively more detailed map information is displayable.

In at least one other embodiment the present application is directed to a method. The method includes receiving information of a current position from receiver for example and displaying map information including the current position on a navigation device . The method further includes determining via processor for example relative map information coverage for the current position based upon that stored in memory for example. Finally the method includes switching the displayed map information to display map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position upon determining that map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position is displayable via the processor determining that map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position is available in memory for example .

In at least one other embodiment the present application is directed to another embodiment of the navigation device . The navigation device can include a receiver to receive a current position of the navigation device an integrated input and display device encompassing display and input device for example to display map information including the current position and a processor to determine relative map information coverage for the current position and to control the integrated input and display device to switch display of the map information to display map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position upon determining that map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position is displayable via the processor determining that map information of relatively more detailed coverage of the current position is available in memory for example .

In at least one other embodiment the travel route is determined based upon a travel destination input into the navigation device wherein the input may include direct input and or selection of a travel destination for example displaying a map on the navigation device receiving current position information relating to travel along the determined route determining whether or not the current position is covered by two or more maps via processor checking memory for map coverage relating to the current position P for example and upon determining that the current position information is covered by two or more maps displaying the one of the two or more maps covering the current position in relatively more detail again via processor making this determination based upon stored map criteria such as stored numerical criteria categories etc. for the maps covering the current position for example .

Again in these embodiments positions or points throughout the United States Europe etc. can still be assigned a number indicating a relative level of detail wherein zero can indicate no coverage 1 can indicate a relatively low detail of coverage and 2 can indicate a relatively higher detail of coverage for example. Thus in this embodiment that previously described above may still apply including the ability to break ties between several maps.

Further at least one other embodiment is direct to a navigation device itself. The navigation device of this embodiment includes a processor to determine a travel route based upon a travel destination input into a navigation device an integrated input and display device encompassing input device and display for example to input the travel destination and to display conveying the determined route and a receiver to receive current position information relating to travel along the determined route the processor being further used to determine whether or not the current position information is covered by two or more maps and to control the integrated input and display device to display the one of the two or more maps covering the current position information in relatively more detail in place of the previously displayed map upon determining that the current position information is covered by two or more maps.

Additional variance may be applicable to any of the above described embodiments of the present application. For example in one ideal situation all maps may cover the whole of Europe or the whole of the United States in some detail. This would simplify certain decisions and certain algorithms.

It should be noted that more detailed map information can be downloaded requested from a server if not present in memory of the navigation device. For example if a user of the navigation device will be traveling to a new area he she can connect to the server and can request more detailed map information wherein the server can send a list of available maps detail level etc. Thereafter once stored map switching within the embodiments of the application can occur.

Further the embodiments of the application can be used for more dynamic information such as traffic and or road conditions slipper roads etc. which may be sent received and stored in different levels of detail in a more real time manner. This can occur via a Bluetooth connection through a mobile phone for example connecting the navigation device and server in a more real time manner. Again different levels of detail of maps can be received stored and switched as discussed within the embodiments of the application.

Still further instead of the example of use of a numerical range from zero no coverage to 2 high coverage larger ranges such as from 0 to 100 or from 0 to 100 coverage for example can be used. The only variant is that larger numbers indicate higher detail.

Even further a memory efficient and speed efficient way to determine the level of detail of coverage or the availability of relatively more detailed map information of a point or position on a map can include defining two rectangles R and R for each map. All points within R may be defined as high detail and all points outside of R but inside R may be low detail with all points outside of R having zero coverage. This would simplify the process.

In addition other low cost alternatives can include using an R and R which do not enclose each other wherein R and R can further be polygons instead of rectangles. Each of these and other permutations and combinations of the concept of the present application are within the scope of the claims of the present application.

These are merely examples and the embodiments of the present application are not limited to these examples.

The navigation device is in Amsterdam and is displaying map A. The user of the navigation device wishes to travel to an address in Paris. The user enters the name PARIS into the navigation device .

The processor of the navigation device determines that the selected city PARIS is in a relatively low detail area of the current map and further determines that there is also a map covering PARIS stored in memory that has this in relatively high detail. The processor of the navigation device can then control display to switch to display of map B.

The user of the navigation device can now select an address in PARIS. The processor of the navigation device now plans a travel route from the current position of the navigation device to the address selected input. Route planning is done on a map covering the whole of Europe. Since the current map B includes this the processor of the navigation device can plan a travel route on this map.

The user may now press ENTER to get to the moving map and start driving. In the moving map the processor of the navigation device will determine that the user s GPS location is of key relevance and that another map map A has better coverage. It can therefore direct a switching to map A. The route that was planned on map B can be transferred to map A in a manner discussed below .

The user now drives towards Paris for a while. At a certain point the user will leave the high coverage area i.e. he will leave the Benelux . Since his GPS location is of key relevance on the moving map the processor of the navigation device can direct the display to switch to map B again where the coverage is high and stay high all the way to Paris .

The navigation device is in Amsterdam and is displaying map A. The user of the navigation device wishes to travel to an address in Paris. The user enters the name PARIS into the navigation device .

The processor of the navigation device determines that the selected city PARIS is in a relatively low detail area of the current map and further determines that there is also a map covering PARIS stored in memory that has this in relatively high detail. The processor of the navigation device can then control display to switch to display of map B.

The user of the navigation device can now select an address in PARIS. The processor of the navigation device now plans a travel route from the current position of the navigation device to the address selected input. Route planning is done on a map covering the whole of Europe. Since the current map B does not include this the processor of the navigation device can then control display to switch to display to map A and can then plan a travel route on this map.

The user may now press ENTER to get to the moving map and start driving. At a certain point the user will leave the high coverage area i.e. he will leave the Benelux . Since his GPS location is of key relevance on the moving map the processor of the navigation device can then control display to switch to display to map B again where the coverage is high and stay high all the way to Paris . Note the route that was planned on map A can be transferred to map B in a manner discussed below.

A navigation device of an embodiment of the present application includes three maps stored in memory 

The navigation device is in Amsterdam and is displaying map A. The user of the navigation device wishes to travel to an address in Paris. The user enters the name PARIS into the navigation device .

The processor of the navigation device determines that the selected city PARIS is in a relatively low detail area of the current map and further determines that there is also a map covering PARIS stored in memory that has this in relatively high detail. The processor of the navigation device can then control display to switch to display of map B.

The user of the navigation device can now select an address in PARIS. The processor of the navigation device now plans a travel route from the current position of the navigation device to the address selected input. Route planning is done on a map covering the whole of Europe. Since the current map B does not include this the processor of the navigation device can then control display to switch to display to map A and can then plan a travel route on this map.

The user may now press ENTER to get to the moving map and start driving. At a certain point the user the processor of the navigation device can determine that another map C has relatively better coverage. The processor of the navigation device can then control display to switch to display to map C which has better coverage. Note the route that was planned on map A can be transferred to map C in a manner discussed below.

The user will now drive towards Paris for a while. At a certain point the user will leave the high coverage area i.e. he will leave the Benelux . Since his GPS location is of key relevance on the moving map the processor of the navigation device can determine to switch to map B again where the coverage is high and stay high all the way to Paris .

A route from map A to map B both covering Europe can be transferred in a number of different ways. For example there is a route on map B the destination point travel destination is on map B and the departure point initial position is on map A. The below noted options provide two non limiting examples of route transfer. Thus these are merely examples and the embodiments of the present application are not limited to these examples.

Find out the last point P on the route that was planned on map B where the detail level is not relatively higher than on map A. Plan a route on map A to P. Simply put up to point P map A is smarter and thus capable of planning a route that is at least as good as what was planned on map B. From point P on map B knows better and at point P the processor of the navigation device will switch back to map B anyway.

Find out the last point P on the route that was planned on map B where the detail level is not higher than on map A. Also find a first point P on the route that has an exact equivalent on map A. Plan a route on map A to P then copy all nodes between P and P. Simply put only re plan a very very small piece of the route basically the part between the GPS position and the route. This is only used if the GPS position is not already ON the route.

The methods of at least one embodiment expressed above may be implemented as a computer data signal embodied in the carrier wave or propagated signal that represents a sequence of instructions which when executed by a processor such as processor of server and or processor of navigation device for example causes the processor to perform a respective method. In at least one other embodiment at least one method provided above may be implemented above as a set of instructions contained on a computer readable or computer accessible medium such as one of the memory devices previously described for example to perform the respective method when executed by a processor or other computer device. In varying embodiments the medium may be a magnetic medium electronic medium optical medium etc.

Even further any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable media and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device a device including a processor . Thus the storage medium or computer readable medium is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.

The storage medium may be a built in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built in medium include but are not limited to rewriteable non volatile memories such as ROMs and flash memories and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include but are not limited to optical storage media such as CD ROMs and DVDs magneto optical storage media such as MOs magnetism storage media including but not limited to floppy disks cassette tapes and removable hard disks media with a built in rewriteable non volatile memory including but not limited to memory cards and media with a built in ROM including but not limited to ROM cassettes etc. Furthermore various information regarding stored images for example property information may be stored in any other form or it may be provided in other ways.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading the disclosure the electronic components of the navigation device and or the components of the server can be embodied as computer hardware circuitry or as a computer readable program or as a combination of both.

The system and method of embodiments of the present application include software operative on the processor to perform at least one of the methods according to the teachings of the present application. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions found in the software program. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the various programming languages which may be employed to create a software program designed to implement and perform at least one of the methods of the present application.

The programs can be structured in an object orientation using an object oriented language including but not limited to JAVA Smalltalk C etc. and the programs can be structured in a procedural orientation using a procedural language including but not limited to COBAL C etc. The software components can communicate in any number of ways that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to by application of program interfaces API interprocess communication techniques including but not limited to report procedure call RPC common object request broker architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Distributed System Object Model DSOM and Remote Method Invocation RMI . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present application disclosure the teachings of the present application are not limited to a particular programming language or environment.

The above systems devices and methods have been described by way of example and not by way of limitation with respect to improving accuracy processor speed and ease of user interaction etc. with a navigation device .

Further elements and or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Still further any one of the above described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus method system computer program and computer program product. For example of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device including but not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

