---

title: Generating customized marketing messages for a customer using dynamic customer behavior data
abstract: Customizing digital media marketing messages using customer behavior data is provided. In one embodiment, patterns of events in customer event data are identified to form customer behavior data. The customer event data comprises metadata describing a customer associated with a retail facility. The customer behavior data is processed to form dynamic data. A customized marketing message is generated for the customer using the dynamic data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812355&OS=08812355&RS=08812355
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08812355
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 695 983 filed Apr. 3 2007 titled Method and Apparatus for Providing Customized Digital Media Marketing Content Directly to a Customer which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is also related to the following applications entitled Intelligent Surveillance System and Method for Integrated Event Based Surveillance application Ser. No. 11 455 251 filed Jun. 16 2006 Retail Store Method and System Robyn Schwartz Publication No. U.S. 2006 0032915 A1 filed Aug. 12 2004 and Business Offering Content Delivery Robyn R. Levine Publication No. U.S. 2002 0111852 filed Jan. 16 2001 all assigned to a common assignee and all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is related generally to an improved data processing system and in particular to a method and apparatus for processing video and audio data. More particularly the present invention is directed to a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for generating customized marketing messages for customers using dynamically generated customer behavior data.

In the past merchants such as store owners and operators frequently had a personal relationship with their customers. The merchant often knew their customers names address marital status and ages of their children hobbies place of employment anniversaries birthdays likes dislikes and personal preferences. The merchant was able to use this information to cater to customer needs and push sales of items the customer might be likely to purchase based on the customer s personal situation. However with the continued growth of large cities the corresponding disappearance of small rural towns and the increasing number of large impersonal chain stores with multiple employees the merchants and employees of retail businesses rarely recognize regular customers and almost never know the customer s name or any other details regarding their customer s personal preferences that might assist the merchant or employee in marketing efforts directed toward a particular customer.

One solution to this problem is directed toward using profile data for a customer to generate personalized marketing messages that may be sent to the customer by email print media telephone or over the World Wide Web via a web page for the merchant. Customer profile data typically includes information provided by the customer in response to a questionnaire or survey such as name address telephone number gender and indicators of particular products the customer is interested in purchasing. Demographic data regarding a customer s age sex income career interests hobbies and consumer preferences may also be included in customer profile data.

In an ideal situation an advertising computer then generates a customer advertisement based on the customer s profile. For example one version of an advertisement may be directed to selling fruit juice to children while another version of the advertisement may be directed to selling the same fruit juice to adults. However this method only provides a small number of pre generated advertisements that are directed towards a fairly large segment of the population rather than to one individual. In other words the same advertisement for selling the fruit juice to an adult may be provided to a soccer mom and to a college student despite the fact that the soccer mom and college student have very different tastes attitudes preferences financial constraints and or goals.

In another solution user profile data demographic data point of contact data and transaction data are analyzed to generate advertising content for customers that target the information content presented to individual consumers or users to increase the likelihood that the customer will purchase the goods or services presented. However current solutions do not utilize all of the potential dynamic customer data elements that may be available to a retail owner or operator for generating customized marketing messages targeted to individual customers. For example a person might be recently unemployed or have had a recent lifestyle change due to divorce or perhaps a death in the family. Other data pieces are needed to provide effective dynamic one to one marketing of messages to the potential customer. Therefore the data elements in prior art only provides approximately seventy five percent 75 of the needed data.

The illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for customizing digital media marketing messages using customer behavior data. In one embodiment patterns of events in customer event data are identified to form customer behavior data. The customer event data includes metadata describing a customer associated with a retail facility. The customer behavior data is processed to form dynamic data. A customized marketing message is generated for the customer using the dynamic data.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

With reference now to the figures depicts a pictorial representation of a network of data processing systems in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Network data processing system is a network of computers in which embodiments may be implemented. Network data processing system contains network which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within network data processing system . Network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables.

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage area network SAN . Storage area network is a network connecting one or more data storage devices to one or more servers such as servers and . A data storage device may include but is not limited to tape libraries disk array controllers tape drives flash memory a hard disk and or any other type of storage device for storing data. Storage area network allows a computing device such as client to connect to a remote data storage device over a network for block level input output.

In addition clients and connect to network . These clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients and . Clients and are clients to server in this example.

Digital customer marketing environment also connects to network . Digital customer marketing environment is a marketing environment in which a customer may view select order and or purchase one or more items. Digital customer marketing environment may include one or more facilities buildings or other structures for wholly or partially containing the items. A facility may include but is not limited to a grocery store a clothing store a marketplace a retail department store a convention center or any other type of structure for housing storing displaying and or selling items.

Items in digital customer marketing environment may include but are not limited to comestibles clothing shoes toys cleaning products household items machines any type of manufactured items entertainment and or educational materials as well as entrance or admittance to attend or receive an educational or entertainment service activity or event. Items for purchase could also include services such as ordering dry cleaning services food delivery or any other services.

Comestibles include solid liquid and or semi solid food and beverage items. Comestibles may be but are not limited to meat products dairy products fruits vegetables bread pasta pre prepared or ready to eat items as well as unprepared or uncooked food and or beverage items. For example a comestible could include without limitation a box of cereal a steak tea bags a cup of tea that is ready to drink popcorn pizza candy or any other edible food or beverage items.

An entertainment or educational activity event or service may include but is not limited to a sporting event a music concert a seminar a convention a movie a ride a game a theatrical performance and or any other performance show or spectacle for entertainment or education of customers. For example entertainment or educational activity or event could include without limitation the purchase of seating at a football game purchase of a ride on a roller coaster purchase of a manicure or purchase of admission to view a film.

Digital customer marketing environment may also includes a parking facility for parking cars trucks motorcycles bicycles or other vehicles for conveying customers to and from digital customer marketing environment . A parking facility may include an open air parking lot an underground parking garage an above ground parking garage an automated parking garage and or any other area designated for parking customer vehicles.

For example digital customer marketing environment may be but is not limited to a grocery store a retail store a department store an indoor mall an outdoor mall a combination of indoor and outdoor retail areas a farmer s market a convention center a sports arena or stadium an airport a bus depot a train station a marina a hotel fair grounds an amusement park a water park and or a zoo.

Digital customer marketing environment encompasses a range or area in which marketing messages may be transmitted to a digital display device for presentation to a customer within digital customer marketing environment . Digital multimedia management software is used to manage and or enable generation management transmission and or display of marketing messages within digital customer marketing environment . Examples of digital multimedia management software includes but is not limited to Scala digital media digital signage software EK3 digital media digital signage software and or Allure digital media software.

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as without limitation an intranet an Ethernet a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN .

Network data processing system may also include additional data storage devices such as data storage device . Data storage device may be implemented in any type of device for storing data including without limitation a hard disk a compact disk CD a compact disk rewritable CD RW a flash memory a compact disk read only memory CD ROM a non volatile random access memory NV RAM and or any other type of storage device for storing data.

A merchant owner operator manager or other employee associated with digital customer marketing environment typically wants to market products or services to a customer or potential customer in the most convenient and efficient manner possible so as to maximize resulting purchases of goods and or services by the customer. Therefore the aspects of the illustrative embodiments recognize that it is advantageous for the merchant to have as much information regarding a customer as possible to personalize the merchant s marketing strategy to that particular customer.

In addition customers generally prefer to only receive marketing messages that are relevant to that particular customer. For example a single college student with no children would typically not be interested in marketing messages offering sale prices or incentives for purchasing baby diapers or children s toys. In addition that college student would not want to waste their time viewing such marketing messages. Likewise a customer that is a non smoker may be inconvenienced by being presented with advertisements email digital messages or other marketing messages for tobacco products.

Therefore the illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for generating very specific and highly customized marketing messages to a customer using customer behavior data. In one embodiment patterns of events in customer event data are identified to form customer behavior data. The customer event data includes metadata describing a customer associated with a retail facility. The customer behavior data is processed to form dynamic data. A customized marketing message is generated for the customer using the dynamic data.

Customer behavior data is data that is dynamically generated by a data processing system in accordance with the illustrative embodiments. Customer behavior data includes data or metadata describing a customer associated with a retail facility. A customer associated with a retail facility may be a customer inside the retail facility or a customer outside the retail facility such as in a parking lot or on a sidewalk. The metadata describing the customer may include descriptions of the customer s appearance clothing facial recognition or the customer s behavior. For example if a customer is wearing a long trench coat on a hot day in the summer time the customer behavior data will include data or metadata indicating that the customer is wearing a long coat or other un seasonal clothing items. Likewise customer behavior data may include information describing unusual accessories such as a customer wearing sunglasses a hat or a scarf around the customer s face or head while indoors. This information may be valuable and or useful for identifying potentially dangerous or suspicious individuals such as shoplifters or thieves.

Customer behavior data may also include data describing the customer s face and or the results of facial recognition analysis. For example customer behavior data may include an identification of a customer that is generated by performing a facial recognition analysis on an image of the customer s face.

Customer behavior data may also include data or metadata describing a customer s vehicle. An image of a customer s vehicle or vehicle license plate may be captured and analyzed by a data processing system such as a smart detection system described in below to identify the make model year color size horsepower and or value of the vehicle. The customer behavior data may be used to determine the types of items the customer may be interested in purchasing. For example if a first customer behavior data indicates a customer arrives at the retail facility on a motorcycle wearing a leather jacket and smoking a cigarette the first customer is likely to be interested in very different products than a second customer that arrives at the retail facility driving in a mini van and enters the retail facility carrying a diaper bag and pushing a baby in a baby stroller. The first customer may be more interested in products and marketing offers for cigarettes while the second customer is more likely to be interested in marketing offers associated with baby diapers baby formula and other baby related items.

In another embodiment customer behavior data includes data and or metadata describing a customer s behavior. The customer behavior data includes patterns of events that suggest an action or intention of the customer. For example if customer behavior data describes a customer frequently picking up different brands of the same type of item reading the labels and then returning the items to the shelf until the customer selects a brand of the item these events may form a pattern of events. This pattern of events may be analyzed to determine if the customer is shopping for the least expensive brand of the item the brand with the healthiest ingredients or a brand that provides some other particular benefit or feature not offered by the other brands of the item.

For example if customer behavior data describes a customer reading the labels on some or all brands of peanut butter and then selecting a brand of peanut butter that is the cheapest the customer behavior data may be used to determine that the customer may be comparison shopping and the customer may be more interested in purchasing inexpensive or cheap items rather than gourmet or designer items.

In another example if analyzing or processing the customer behavior data suggests that the customer reads some or all of the labels on the peanut butter and then selects the brand with the most natural or healthy ingredients the customer behavior data can be used to determine that the customer may be health conscious and more interested in purchasing items with healthier organic and or more natural ingredients. In this manner the customer behavior data may be used to generate customized marketing offers for the customer based on the customer s actions appearance behavior and or other events associated with the particular customer.

The customer behavior data may be processed with external data associated with a customer and or internal data associated with a customer to form the dynamic data. External data is received from a set of detectors located externally to a retail facility to form external data. External data may include data captured by a set of motion detectors sound detection devices pressure sensors or cameras. As used herein the term set includes one or more. For example a set of motion detectors may include a single motion detector or two or more motion detectors.

In one embodiment the detectors include a set of one or more cameras located externally to the retail facility. Video images received from the set of cameras are used to identify a presence of the customer outside the retail facility. The video images from the set of cameras outside the retail facility are external data.

Internal data is data received from a set of detectors located internally or inside of a retail facility. For example internal data may include but is not limited to video images of a customer captured by cameras located inside or internally to a retail facility an identification of a customer received from a radio frequency identification tag for the customer or any other identification card and or data regarding the current or real time contents of a customer s shopping basket gathered by a set of radio frequency identification sensors associated with the customer s shopping container and or the radio frequency identification tags associated with the items in the shopping container located inside the retail facility.

As used herein data associated with a customer may include data regarding the customer members of the customer s family pets cars or other vehicles the customer s shopping companions the customer s friends and or any other data pertaining to the customer. The customized marketing message is delivered to a display device associated with the customer for display.

Processing customer behavior data may include but is not limited to formatting the customer behavior data for utilization and or analysis in one or more data models combining the customer behavior data with external data and or internal data comparing the customer behavior data to a data model and or filtering the customer behavior data for relevant data elements to form the dynamic data.

Dynamic data is data for a customer that is gathered and analyzed in real time as a customer is shopping or browsing in digital customer marketing environment . Dynamic data is data that has been processed or filtered for analysis in a data model. For example if the internal data includes video images of a customer inside a retail facility the video images may need to be processed to convert the video images into data and or metadata for analysis in a data model. For example a data model may not be capable of analyzing raw or unprocessed video images captured by a camera. The video images may need to be processed into data and or meta data describing the contents of the video images before a data model may be used to organize structure or otherwise manipulate data and or metadata. The video images converted to data and or meta data that is ready for processing or analysis in a set of data models is an example of dynamic data.

The set of dynamic data is analyzed using a set of data models to identify and create specific and personalized marketing message criteria for the customer. A set of data models includes one or more data models. A data model is a model for structuring defining organizing imposing limitations or constraints and or otherwise manipulating data and metadata to produce a result. A data model may be generated using any type of modeling method or simulation including but not limited to a statistical method a data mining method a causal model a mathematical model a marketing model a behavioral model a psychological model a sociological model or a simulation model.

A customized marketing message is generated using a set of personalized marketing message criteria. The set of personalized marketing message criteria may include a single criterion or two or more criteria. Personalized marketing message criteria are criterion or indicators for selecting one or more modular marketing messages for inclusion in the customized marketing message. The personalized marketing message criteria may include one or more criterion.

The personalized marketing message criteria may be generated in part a priori or pre generated and in part dynamically in real time based on the customer behavior data for the customer and or any available external data and or internal data associated with the customer. The personalized marketing message criteria may also be implemented completely dynamically based on the customer behavior data for the customer and or any available external data and or internal data associated with the customer.

A marketing message is a message that presents a message regarding a product or item that is being marketed advertised promoted and or offered for sale. A marketing message may include but is not limited to marketing messages displayed on a digital display device. A marketing message may include textual content graphical content moving video content still images audio content and or any combination of textual graphical moving video still images and audio content. A customized marketing message is a marketing message that is generated for a particular customer or group of customers based on one or more personalized message criteria for the customer.

The customized marketing message is a highly personalized marketing message for a specific or particular customer. The personalized marketing message may include special offers or incentives to the customer. An incentive is an offer of a discount or reward to encourage a customer to select order and or purchase one or more items.

The display device for presenting the customized marketing message to the customer may be without limitation a kiosk a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a laptop computer a display screen an electronic sign or a smart watch. In another embodiment the display device is located externally to the retail facility. The customized marketing message is displayed on the display device to the customer before the customer enters the retail facility. In another embodiment the customized marketing message is displayed to the customer after the customer enters the retail facility and begins shopping.

Retail facility is a retail facility for wholly or partially storing enclosing or displaying items for marketing viewing selection order and or purchase by a customer. For example retail facility may be without limitation a retail store supermarket book store clothing store or shopping mall. However retail facility is not limited to retail stores. For example retail facility may also include without limitation a sports arena amusement park water park or convention center. In this example retail facility is a grocery store.

Detectors are devices for gathering data associated with a customer. Detectors are examples of detectors that are located externally to retail facility . In this example detectors are located at locations along an outer perimeter of digital customer marketing environment . However detectors may be located at any position within digital customer marketing environment that is outside retail facility to detect customers before the customers enter retail facility and or after customers leave digital customer marketing environment .

Detectors may be any type of detecting devices for gathering data associated with a customer including but not limited to a camera a motion sensor device a sonar sound recording device audio detection device a voice recognition system a heat sensor a seismograph a pressure sensor a device for detecting odors scents and or fragrances a radio frequency identification RFID tag reader a global positioning system GPS receiver and or any other detection device for detecting a presence of a human animal and or conveyance vehicle outside of the retail facility. A conveyance vehicle is a vehicle for conveying people animals or objects to a destination. A conveyance vehicle may include but is not limited to a car bus truck motorcycle boat airplane or any other type of vehicle.

Detectors may be any type of detecting devices for gathering customer behavior data associated with a customer. Detectors may also be used to gather external data associated with the customer. Detectors may also be used to gather customer event data. Customer event data is data or metadata describing an appearance of a customer behavior of a customer or events associated with a customer. For example customer event data may include data describing a customer s apparel such as a coat or hat. This information could be important if for example a customer is wearing a long coat on a hot day. Such information could indicate that the customer is a potential shoplifter.

Customer event data may also include data or metadata describing events or behaviors associated with the customer. For example customer event data could describe a customer s pace or walking speed inside the retail facility or outside the retail facility. Customer event data could also describe a type of car the customer is driving and or the speed at which the customer was driving. This information may be useful for determining if a customer is in a hurry or is shopping at a leisurely pace.

In other words customer event data may include data describing any action or event associated with the customer. Examples of actions or events could include without limitation if the customer appears hostile or angry tired sick happy in a hurry or rushed casual and leisurely if the customer is hurriedly grabbing items of the shelf with little or no inspection before selection for purchase if the customer is casually reading labels and price tags with deliberation before selecting items for purchase loitering with no apparent purpose wearing a long coat or otherwise acting in a suspicious manner.

Customer event data is derived from audio and or video data gathered by an audio and or video capture device such as without limitation a digital video camera. Thus detectors may be used to gather detection data including audio and or video data for use in generating customer event data. The audio and or video data is analyzed to the appearance of a customer and or to identify behaviors and events associated with the customer to form the customer event data.

The customer event data is then analyzed for patterns of behavior to form customer behavior data. For example if customer event data indicates a customer is walking at a pace that is above a threshold walking speed the customer selects items rapidly without reading labels or only briefly reading labels these events may form a pattern of events that indicates the customer is in a hurry. This information may be used to generate customized marketing messages for the customer that take into account the fact that the customer may not want to spend much time in the retail facility.

Thus detectors may be used to collect audio and or video images of a customer a customer s vehicle and or a customer s companions for use in generating customer event data and customer behavior data. Customer event data generated from audio and or video images of the customer may be combined or processed with internal data and or external data regarding the customer to form the customer behavior data.

External customer data is data for detecting a presence of a customer outside retail facility . External data may be gathered by detection devices such as without limitation a camera an audio recorder a sound detection device a seismograph pressure sensors a device for detecting odors scents and or fragrances a motion detector a thermal sensor or other heat sensor device and or any other device for detecting a presence of a human animal and or conveyance vehicle outside of the retail facility.

A heat sensor may be any type of known or available sensor for detecting body heat generated by a human or animal. A heat sensor may also be a sensor for detecting heat generated by a vehicle such as an automobile or a motorcycle.

A motion detector may include any type of known or available motion detector device. A motion detector device may include but is not limited to a motion detector device using a photo sensor radar or microwave radio detector or ultrasonic sound waves.

A motion detector using ultrasonic sound waves transmits or emits ultrasonic sound waves. The motion detector detects or measures the ultrasonic sound waves that are reflected back to the motion detector. If a human animal or other object moves within the range of the ultrasonic sound waves generated by the motion detector the motion detector detects a change in the echo of sound waves reflected back. This change in the echo indicates the presence of a human animal or other object moving within the range of the motion detector.

In one example a motion detector device using a radar or microwave radio detector may detect motion by sending out a burst of microwave radio energy and detecting the same microwave radio waves when the radio waves are deflected back to the motion detector. If a human animal or other object moves into the range of the microwave radio energy field generated by the motion detector the amount of energy reflected back to the motion detector is changed. The motion detector identifies this change in reflected energy as an indication of the presence of a human animal or other object moving within the motion detectors range.

A motion detector device using a photo sensor detects motion by sending a beam of light across a space into a photo sensor. The photo sensor detects a break or interrupts in the beam of light as a human animal or object moves in between the source of the beam of light and the photo sensor. These examples of motion detectors are presented for illustrative purposes only. A motion detector in accordance with the illustrative embodiments may include any type of known or available motion detector and is not limited to the motion detectors described herein.

A pressure sensor detector may be for example a device for detecting a change in weight or mass associated with the pressure sensor. For example if one or more pressure sensors are imbedded in a sidewalk Astroturf or floor mat the pressure sensor detects a change in weight or mass when a human customer or animal steps on the pressure sensor. The pressure sensor may also detect when a human customer or animal steps off of the pressure sensor. In another example one or more pressure sensors are embedded in a parking lot and the pressure sensors detect a weight and or mass associated with a vehicle when the vehicle is in contact with the pressure sensor. A vehicle may be in contact with one or more pressure sensors when the vehicle is driving over one or more pressure sensors and or when a vehicle is parked on top of one or more pressure sensors.

A camera may be any type of known or available camera including but not limited to a video camera for taking moving video images a digital camera capable of taking still pictures and or a continuous video stream a stereo camera a web camera and or any other imaging device capable of capturing a view of whatever appears within the camera s range for remote monitoring viewing or recording of a distant or obscured person object or area.

Various lenses filters and other optical devices such as zoom lenses wide angle lenses minors prisms and the like may also be used with an image capture device to assist in capturing the desired view. The image capture device may be fixed in a particular orientation and configuration or it may along with any optical devices be programmable in orientation light sensitivity level focus or other parameters. Programming data may be provided via a computing device such as server in .

A camera may also be a stationary camera and or non stationary cameras. A non stationary camera is a camera that is capable of moving and or rotating along one or more directions such as up down left right and or rotate about an axis of rotation. The camera may also be capable of moving to follow or track a person animal or object in motion. In other words the camera may be capable of moving about an axis of rotation in order to keep a customer animal or object within a viewing range of the camera lens. In this example detectors are non stationary digital video cameras.

Detectors are connected to an analysis server on a data processing system such as network data processing system in . The analysis server is illustrated and described in greater detail in below. The analysis server includes software for analyzing digital images and other data captured by detectors to track and or visually identify retail items containers and or customers outside retail facility . Attachment of identifying marks may be part of this visual identification in the illustrative embodiments.

In this example four detectors detectors are located outside retail facility . However any number of detectors may be used to detect track and or gather data associated with customers outside retail facility . For example a single detector as well as two or more detectors may be used outside retail facility for tracking customers entering and or exiting retail facility .

Retail facility may also optionally include set of detectors . Set of detectors is a set of one or more detectors for gathering data associated with a customer located inside of retail facility . Set of detectors are detector for gathering customer behavior data. Set of detectors may also optionally be used to gather internal data.

Set of detectors may be located at any location within retail facility . In addition set of detector may include multiple detectors located at differing locations within retail facility . For example a detector in set of detectors may be located without limitation at an entrance to retail facility on one or more shelves in retail facility and or on one or more doors or doorways in retail facility .

The detectors in set of detectors may be any type of detecting devices including but not limited to cameras motion sensor devices sonar detectors sound recording devices audio detection devices voice recognition systems heat sensors seismographs pressure sensors devices for detecting odors scents and or fragrances radio frequency identification RFID tag readers global positioning system GPS receivers and or any other detection devices for detecting humans animals and or conveyance vehicles inside of retail facility .

For example set of detectors may include one or more cameras or other image capture devices located inside retail facility for tracking and or identifying items containers for items shopping containers and shopping carts and or customers inside retail facility to form internal data. The camera or other detector in set of detectors may be coupled to and or in communication with the analysis server. In addition more than one image capture device may be operated simultaneously without departing from the illustrative embodiments of the present invention.

Thus in this example in detectors and or set of detectors include at least one of a microphone a pressure sensor a device for detecting odors a motion detector and a thermal sensor. As used herein the term at least one of refers to one or more of one type of detector. The term at least one of may also refer to at least one or more types of detectors. At least one detector may be only a single instance of a single type of detector. For example detectors and or set of detectors may include only a single video camera. In another example detectors and or set of detectors may include only a single microphone or only a single motion detector.

Detectors and or set of detectors may include at least one of the same type of detectors. For example detectors and or set of detectors may include only video cameras. In this example detectors and or set of detectors may include only a single video camera or two or more video cameras.

The at least one detector in detectors and or set of detectors may also include different types of detectors. For example detectors and or set of detectors may include two video cameras three microphones a single motion detector and four thermal sensors. In another embodiment detectors and or set of detector may include a microphone a thermal sensor a video camera a set of pressure sensors and or any number of other types of detectors. In other words any combination of types of detectors and any number of each type of detector may be used in combination to gather detection data for a customer to form detectors and or set of detectors .

Display devices are multimedia devices for displaying marketing messages to customers. Display devices may be any type of display device for presenting a text graphic audio video and or any combination of text graphics audio and video to a customer. For example display devices may be without limitation a computer display screen laptop computer a tablet personal computer PC a video display screen a digital message board a monitor a kiosk a personal digital assistant PDA and or a cellular telephone with a display screen. Display devices may be one or more display devices located within retail facility for use and or viewing by one or more customers.

In this example display devices are located inside retail facility . However display devices may also be located outside retail facility such as display devices . In this example display devices is a display screen or kiosk located in a parking lot queue line or other area outside of retail facility . Display devices outside retail facility may be used in the absence of display devices inside retail facility or in addition to display devices located inside retail facility .

Container is a container for holding carrying transporting or moving one or more items. For example container may be without limitation a shopping cart a shopping bag a shopping basket and or any other type of container for holding items. In this example container is a shopping cart.

In this example in only one container is depicted inside retail facility . However any number of containers may be used inside and or outside retail facility for holding carrying transporting or moving items selected by customers.

Container may also optionally include identification tag . Identification tag is a tag for identifying container locating container within digital customer marketing environment either inside or outside retail facility and or associating container with a particular customer. For example identification tag may be a radio frequency identification RFID tag a universal product code UPC tag a global positioning system GPS tag and or any other type of identification tag for identifying locating and or tracking a container.

Container may also include display device coupled to mounted on attached to or imbedded within container . Display device is a multimedia display device for displaying textual graphical video and or audio marketing messages to a customer. For example display device may be a digital display screen or personal digital assistant attached to a handle front back or side member of container . Display device may be operatively connected to a data processing system such as data processing system connected to digital customer marketing environment in via wireless infrared radio or other connection technologies known in the art for the purpose of transferring data to be displayed on display device . The data processing system includes the analysis server for analyzing dynamic external customer data obtained from detectors and set of detectors as well as internal customer data obtained from one or more databases storing data associated with one or more customers.

Retail items are items of merchandise for sale. Retail items may be displayed on a display shelf not shown located in retail facility . Other items of merchandise that may be for sale such as food beverages shoes clothing household goods decorative items or sporting goods may be hung from display racks displayed in cabinets on shelves or in refrigeration units not shown . Any other type of merchandise display arrangement known in the retail trade may also be used in accordance with the illustrative embodiments.

For example display shelves or racks may include in addition to retail items various advertising displays images or postings. A multimedia display device attached to a data processing system may also be included. The images shown on the multimedia display may be changed in real time in response to various events such as the time of day the day of the week a particular customer approaching the shelves or rack or items already placed inside container by the customer.

Retail items may be viewed or identified using an image capture device such as a camera or other detector in set of detectors . To facilitate such viewing an item may have attached identification tags . Identification tags are tags associated with one or more retail items for identifying the item and or location of the item. For example identification tags may be without limitation a bar code pattern such as a universal product code UPC or European article number EAN a radio frequency identification RFID tag or other optical identification tag depending on the capabilities of the image capture device and associated data processing system to process the information and make an identification of retail items . In some embodiments an optical identification may be attached to more than one side of a given item.

The data processing system discussed in greater detail in below includes associated memory which may be an integral part such as the operating memory of the data processing system or externally accessible memory. Software for tracking objects may reside in the memory and run on the processor. The software is capable of tracking retail items as a customer removes an item in retail items from its display position and places the item into container . Likewise the tracking software can track items which are being removed from container and placed elsewhere in the retail store whether placed back in their original display position or anywhere else including into another container. The tracking software can also track the position of container and the customer.

The software can track retail items by using data from one or more of detectors located externally to retail facility internal data captured by one or more detectors in set of detectors located internally to retail facility such as identification data received from identification tags and or identification data received from identification tags such as identification tag .

The software in the data processing system keeps a list of which items have been placed in each shopping container such as container . The list is stored in a database. The database may be any type of database such as a spreadsheet relational database hierarchical database or the like. The database may be stored in the operating memory of the data processing system externally on a secondary data storage device locally on a recordable medium such as a hard drive floppy drive CD ROM DVD device remotely on a storage area network such as storage area network in or in any other type of storage device.

The lists of items in container are updated frequently enough to maintain a dynamic accurate real time listing of the contents of each container as customers add and remove items from containers such as container . The listings of items in containers are also made available to whatever inventory system is used in retail facility . Such listings represent an up to the minute view of which items are still available for sale for example to on line shopping customers. The listings may also provide a demand side trigger back to the supplier of each item. In other words the listing of items in customer shopping containers can be used to update inventories to determine current stock available for sale to customers and or identification of items that need to be restocked or replenished.

At any time the customer using container may request to see a listing of the contents of container by entering a query at a user interface to the data processing system. The user interface may be available at a kiosk computer personal digital assistant or other computing device connected to the data processing system via a network connection. The user interface may also be coupled to a display device such as at a display device in display devices display devices or display device associated with container . The customer may also make such a query after leaving the retail store. For example a query may be made using a portable device or a home computer workstation.

The listing is then displayed at a location where it may be viewed by the customer such as on a display device in display devices inside retail facility display devices outside retail facility or display device associated with container . The listing may include the quantity of each item in container as well as the price for each a discount or amount saved off the regular price of each item and a total price for all items in container . Other data may also be displayed as part of the listing such as additional incentives to purchase one or more other items available in digital customer marketing environment .

When the customer is finished shopping the customer may proceed to a point of sale checkout station. In one embodiment the checkout station may be coupled to the data processing system. Therefore the items in container are already known to the data processing system due to the dynamic listing of items in container that is maintained as the customer shops in digital customer marketing environment . Thus no need is present for an employee customer or other person to scan each item in container to complete the purchase of each item as is commonly done today. In this example the customer merely arranges for payment of the total for example by use of a smart card credit card debit card cash or other payment method. In some embodiments it may not be necessary to empty container at the retail facility at all for example if container is a minimal cost item which can be kept by the customer.

In other embodiments container may belong to the customer. In this example the customer brings container to retail facility at the start of the shopping session. In another embodiment container belongs to retail facility and must be returned before the customer leaves the parking lot or at some other designated time or place.

In another example when the customer is finished shopping the customer may complete checkout either in aisle or from a final or terminal based checkout position in the store using a transactional device which may be integral with container or associated temporarily to container . The customer may also complete the transaction using a consumer owned computing device such as a laptop cellular telephone or personal digital assistant that is connected to the data processing system via a network connection.

The customer may also make payment by swiping a magnetic strip on a card using any known or available radio frequency identification RFID enabled payment device. The transactional device may also be a portable device such as a laptop computer palm device or any other portable device specially configured for such in aisle checkout service whether integral with container or separately operable. In this example the transactional device connects to the data processing system via a network connection to complete the purchase transaction at check out time.

Checkout may be performed in aisle or at the end of the shopping trip whether from any point or from a specified point of transaction. As noted above checkout transactional devices may be stationary shared devices or portable or mobile devices offered to the customer from the store or may be devices brought to the store by the customer which are compatible with the data processing system and software residing on the data processing system.

Thus in this depicted example when a customer enters digital customer marketing environment but before the customer enters retail facility such as a retail store the customer is detected and identified by one or more detectors in detectors to generate external data. If the customer takes a shopping container before entering retail facility the shopping container is also identified. In some embodiments the customer may be identified through identification of the container. Detectors may also gather data associated with the customer to form customer behavior data.

The customer is tracked using image data and or other detection data captured by detectors as the customer enters retail facility . The customer is identified and tracked inside retail facility by one or more detectors inside the facility such as set of detectors . When the customer takes a shopping container such as container the analysis server uses internal data from set of detectors such as identification data from identification tags and to track container and items selected by the customer and placed in container .

As a result an item selected by the customer for example as the customer removes the item from its stationary position on a store display is identified. The selected item may be traced visually by a camera tracked by another type of detector in set of detectors and or using identification data from identification tags . The item is tracked until the customer places it in container .

The analysis server stores a listing of selected items placed in the shopping container. In this example a single container and a single customer is described. However the aspects of the illustrative embodiments may also be used to track multiple containers and multiple customers simultaneously. In this case the analysis server will store a separate listing of selected items for each active customer. As noted above the listings may be stored in a database. The listing of items in a given container is displayed to a customer employee agent or other customer in response to a query. The listing may be displayed to a customer at any time either while actively shopping during check out or after the customer leaves retail facility .

Thus in one embodiment a customer entering retail facility is detected by one or more detectors in detectors . The customer may be identified by the one or more detectors. An analysis server in a data processing system associated with retail facility begins performing data mining on available customer profile information and demographic information for use in generating customized marketing messages targeted to the customer.

The customized marketing message is generated while the customer is present at retail facility . A customer is present at retail facility if the customer is located inside retail facility or outside retail facility but within a detection range of detectors such as without limitation in a parking lot or other parking area associated with the retail facility. Thus the customer may be presented with customized digital marketing messages on one or more display devices in display devices located externally to retail facility before the customer enters retail facility . The customized marketing message may also be displayed to the customer at any time while the customer is located inside retail facility .

When the customer enters retail facility the customer is typically offered provided or permitted to take shopping container for use during shopping. Container may contain a digital media display such as display device mounted on container and or customer may be offered a handheld digital media display device such as a display device in display devices . In the alternative the customer may be encouraged to use strategically placed kiosks running digital media marketing messages throughout retail facility . Display device and or may include a verification device for verifying an identity of the customer.

For example display device may include a radio frequency identification tag reader for reading a radio frequency identification tag a smart card reader for reading a smart card or a card reader for reading a specialized store loyalty or frequent customer card. Once the customer has been verified the data processing system retrieves past purchase history total potential wallet share shopper segmentation information customer profile data granular demographic data for the customer and or any other available customer data elements using known or available data retrieval and or data mining techniques. The customer data elements are analyzed using a data model to determine appropriate digital media content to be pushed on demand throughout the store to customers viewing display devices and or display device .

This illustrative embodiment provides an intelligent guided selling methodology to optimize customer throughput in the store thereby maximizing or optimizing total retail content and or retail sales for the store. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the words optimize optimizating and related terms are terms of art that refer to improvements in speed and or efficiency of a computer implemented method or computer program and do not purport to indicate that a computer implemented method or computer program has achieved or is capable of achieving an optimal or perfectly speedy perfectly efficient state.

Thus the customer is provided with incentives to use display devices and or display device to obtain marketing incentives promotional offers and discounts. When the customer has finished shopping the customer may be provided with a list of savings or tiered accounting of savings over the regular price of purchased items if a display device had not been used to view and use customized digital marketing messages.

Next is a block diagram of a data processing system in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as server or client in in which computer usable code or instructions implementing the processes may be located for the illustrative embodiments.

In the depicted example data processing system employs a hub architecture including a north bridge and memory controller hub MCH and a south bridge and input output I O controller hub ICH . Processing unit main memory and graphics processor are coupled to north bridge and memory controller hub . Processing unit may contain one or more processors and even may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems. Graphics processor may be coupled to the MCH through an accelerated graphics port AGP for example.

In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter is coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub and audio adapter keyboard and mouse adapter modem read only memory ROM universal serial bus USB ports and other communications ports and PCI PCIe devices are coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus and hard disk drive HDD and CD ROM drive are coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus . PCI PCIe devices may include for example Ethernet adapters add in cards and PC cards for notebook computers. PCI uses a card bus controller while PCIe does not. ROM may be for example a flash binary input output system BIOS . Hard disk drive and CD ROM drive may use for example an integrated drive electronics IDE or serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface. A super I O SIO device may be coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub .

An operating system runs on processing unit and coordinates and provides control of various components within data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft and Windows are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both . An object oriented programming system such as the Java programming system may run in conjunction with the operating system and provides calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system . Java and all Java based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems Inc. in the United States other countries or both.

Instructions for the operating system the object oriented programming system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processing unit . The processes of the illustrative embodiments may be performed by processing unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as for example main memory read only memory or in one or more peripheral devices.

In some illustrative examples data processing system may be a personal digital assistant PDA which is generally configured with flash memory to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or customer generated data. A bus system may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus an I O bus and a PCI bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any type of communications fabric or architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the fabric or architecture. A communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. A memory may be for example main memory or a cache such as found in north bridge and memory controller hub . A processing unit may include one or more processors or CPUs.

With reference now to a diagram of a display device in the form of a personal digital assistant PDA is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Personal digital assistant includes a display screen for presenting textual and graphical information such as without limitation a customized marketing message generated for a specific customer. Display screen may be a known display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD device. The display may be used to present a map or directions calendar information a telephone directory or an electronic mail message. In these examples display screen may receive customer input using an input device such as for example stylus .

Personal digital assistant may also include keypad speaker and antenna . Keypad may be used to receive customer input in addition to using display screen . Speaker provides a mechanism for audio output such as presentation of an audio file. Antenna provides a mechanism used in establishing a wireless communications link between personal digital assistant and a network such as network in . Personal digital assistant also preferably includes a graphical user interface that may be implemented by means of systems software residing in computer readable media in operation within personal digital assistant .

Turning now to a block diagram of a personal digital assistant display device is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Personal digital assistant is an example of a personal digital assistant such as personal digital assistant in in which code or instructions implementing the processes of the present invention for displaying customized digital marketing messages may be located. Personal digital assistant includes a bus to which processor and main memory are connected. Display adapter keypad adapter storage and audio adapter also are connected to bus . Cradle link provides a mechanism to connect personal digital assistant to a cradle used in synchronizing data in personal digital assistant with another data processing system. Further display adapter also includes a mechanism to receive customer input from a stylus when a touch screen display is employed.

An operating system runs on processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within personal digital assistant in . The operating system may be for example a commercially available operating system such as Windows CE which is available from Microsoft Corporation. Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as storage and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor .

The depicted examples in are not meant to imply architectural limitations. The hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash memory equivalent non volatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the illustrative embodiments may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

Referring now to a block diagram of a data processing system for analyzing data associated with a customer to generate customized marketing messages is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Data associated with the customer includes customer event data customer behavior data and any available internal data and or external data regarding the customer.

Data processing system is a data processing system such as data processing system in and or data processing system in .

Analysis server is any type of known or available server for analyzing dynamic customer data elements for use in generating customized digital marketing messages. Analysis server may be a server such as server in or data processing system in . Analysis server includes set of data models for analyzing dynamic customer data elements and static customer data elements.

Static customer data elements are data elements that do not tend to change in real time. Examples of static data elements include a customer s name and address. Dynamic customer data elements are data elements that are changing in real time. For example dynamic customer data elements could include without limitation the current contents of a customer s shopping basket the time of day the day of the week whether it is the customer s birthday or other holiday observed by the customer customer s responses to marketing messages and or items viewed by the customer customer location and or any other dynamic customer information. Customer behavior data is a dynamic customer data element.

Set of data models is one or more data models created a priori or pre generated for use in analyzing customer data objects for personalizing the content of marketing messages presented to the customer. Set of data models includes one or more data models for identifying customer data objects and determining relationships between the customer data objects. Set of data models are generated using statistical data mining and simulation or modeling techniques.

Profile data is data regarding one or more customers. Profile data includes point of contact data profiled past data current actions data transactional history data certain click stream data granular demographics psychographic data registration data and account data and or any other data regarding a customer. Registration data includes customer provided data.

Point of contact data is data regarding a method or device used by a customer to interact with a data processing system of a merchant or supplier and or receive customized marketing message for display. The customer may interact with the merchant or supplier using a computing device or display terminal having a user interface for inputting data and or receiving output. The device or terminal may be a device provided by the retail facility and or a device belonging to or provided by the customer. For example the display or access device may include but is not limited to a cellular telephone a laptop computer a desktop computer a computer terminal kiosk personal digital assistant PDA such as a personal digital assistant in or personal digital assistant in or any other display or access device such as display device .

If display device is a display device associated with the retail facility details and information regarding display device will be known to analysis server . However if display device is a display device belonging to the customer or brought to the retail facility by the customer analysis server may identify the type of display device using techniques such as interrogation commands cookies or any other known or equivalent technique. From the type of device other constraints may be determined such as display size resolution refresh rate color capability keyboard entry capability other entry capability such as pointer or mouse speech recognition and response language constraints and any other fingertip touch point constraints and assumptions about customer state of the display device. For example someone using a cellular phone has a limited time window and is sensitive to location and local time of day whereas a casual home browser may have a greater luxury of time and faster connectivity.

An indication of a location for the point of contact may also be determined. For example global positioning system GPS coordinates of the customer may be determined if the customer device has such a capability whether by including a real time global positioning system receiver or by periodically storing global positioning system coordinates entered by some other method. Other location indications may also be determined such as post office address street or crossroad coordinates latitude longitude coordinates or any other location indicating system.

Analysis server may also determine the connectivity. For example the customer may be connected to the merchant or supplier in any of a number ways such as a modem digital modem network wireless network Ethernet intranet or high speed lines including fiber optic lines. Each way of connection imposes constraints of speed latency and or mobility which can then also be determined.

The profiled past comprises data for individualization of customized marketing message . Global profile data may be retrieved from a file database data warehouse or any other data storage device. Multiple storage devices and software may also be used. Some or all of the data may be retrieved from the point of contact device as well. The profiled past may comprise an imposed profile global profile individual profile and demographic profile. The profiles may be combined or layered to define the customer for specific promotions and marketing offers.

In the illustrative embodiments a global profile includes data on the customer s interests preferences and affiliation. The profiled past may also comprise retrieving purchased data. Various firms provide data for purchase which is grouped or keyed to presenting a lifestyle or life stage view of customers by block or group or some other baseline parameter. The purchased data presents a view of the customer based on aggregation of data points such as but not limited to geographic block age of head of household income level number of children education level ethnicity and buying patterns.

The profiled past may also include navigational data relating to the path the customer used to arrive at a web page which indicates where the customer came from or the path the customer followed to link to the merchant or supplier s web page. Transactional data of actions taken is data regarding a transaction. For example transaction data may include data regarding whether the transaction is a first time transaction or a repeat transaction and or how much the customer usually spends. Information on how much a customer generally spends during a given transaction may be referred to as basket share. Data voluntarily submitted by the customer in responding to questions or a survey may also be included in the profiled past.

Current actions also called a current and historical record are also included in profile data . Current actions are data defining customer behavior. One source of current actions is listings of the purchases made by the customer payments and returns made by the customer and or click stream data from a point of contact device of the customer. Click stream data is data regarding a customer s navigation of an online web page of the merchant or supplier. Click stream data may include page hits sequence of hits duration of page views response to advertisements transactions made and conversion rates. Conversion rate is the number of times the customer takes action divided by the number of times an opportunity is presented.

In this example profiled past data for a given customer is stored in analysis server . However in accordance with the illustrative embodiments profiled past data may also be stored in any local or remote data storage device including but not limited to a device such as storage area network in or read only memory ROM and or compact disk read only memory CD ROM in .

Granular demographics include data associated with a detailed demographics profile for one or more customers. Granular demographics may include without limitation ethnicity block group lifestyle life stage income and education data. Granular demographics may be used as an additional layer of profile data associated with a customer.

Psychographic data refers to an attitude profile of the customer. Examples of attitude profiles include a trend buyer or a time strapped person who prefers to purchase a complete outfit or a professional buyer who prefers to mix and match individual items from various suppliers.

Internal data is data associated with a customer that is pre generated and or data that is gathered inside a retail facility. For example internal data may include data received from a set of detectors located internally or inside of a retail facility such as set of detectors in . For example internal data includes but is not limited to customer profile data granular demographics data psychographic data point of contact data transactional history data current actions data items currently in the customer s shopping cart and or profiled past data.

External data is data gathered by one or more detection devices located externally to a retail facility such as retail facility in . The one or more detection devices may be any type of detection devices for detecting a presence of a customer animal or object outside of the retail facility. External data may include data regarding detection of a customer s presence outside a retail facility a detection of a customer outside the retail facility that is moving toward an entrance to the retail facility indicating that the customer is about to go inside the facility and or detection of a customer exiting the retail facility. External data may also indicate detection of a presence of a customer s vehicle such as a car bicycle motorcycle bus or truck. For example the detection devices may be detectors such as detectors in .

Data associated with the customer includes customer event data customer behavior data and any available internal data and or external data regarding the customer. For example video data of a customer in the parking lot of a retail facility may be processed to generate customer event data for the customer.

Customer event data describes events associated with a customer. As used herein an event may include an appearance of a customer a customer s clothing hat gloves shoes or other accessories. For example an event could include a customer wearing a long coat inside the retail facility. An event may also include facial recognition of the customer to identify the customer.

An event may also include an action occurrence or event involving the customer such as a customer selecting an item a customer walking at a particular speed or a customer walking in a particular area of the retail facility. An event may also include the appearance of the customer s vehicle and or actions events and occurrences associated with the customer s vehicle. For example an event could include data or metadata indicating that the customer is driving or drove to the retail facility in a new Ferrari an old banged up van a motorcycle or a bicycle. An event could also include data or metadata indicating the customer was speeding or driving in a dangerous or reckless manner when the customer arrived or departed from the retail facility. The make model year and or condition of the vehicle may be determined using audio and or video images of the vehicle parts of the vehicle and or the vehicle license plate.

Customer event data may be further processed filtered and or analyzed to identify patterns of events that may indicate a customer s shopping preference to form customer behavior data . In other words customer behavior data is a set of data and or metadata describing events behaviors and appearance of a customer and or a customer s vehicle that indicates a significant or relevant pattern of events suggesting a shopping preference. Customer behavior data may also include those events selected from customer event data that indicates a potential shopping preference.

A customer s shopping preference may be an indication of items that a customer may be more likely to purchase or prefer. A shopping preference includes but is not limited to any indication or suggestion as to a brand price range type of product or purchasing tendencies for a customer. A shopping preference may include but is not limited to a preference for low cost items a preference for high quality items a preference for lower cost generic brand products a preference for healthy items a preference for luxury items a preference for sale or discount items a preference for purchasing items in bulk or large quantities a preference for purchasing items in small quantities or single serving sizes a preference for gourmet items and a preference for designer brand items or particular brand name products.

Customer behavior data may also include recognized or identified patterns of behaviors actions events or customer appearance that suggests a potential shoplifter a disruptive or undesirable customer a potentially dangerous customer a customer that is potentially ill or injured and or identifying one or more unsupervised children in the retail facility. It is advantageous to identify these individuals in this example because a notification may be made to store security the police or other emergency services or any other necessary action with regard to the customer may be identified based on the customer behavior data .

For example if pattern of events in customer behavior data suggests that a customer is price conscious and tends to select low cost items cheaper generic brands sale discount or rebate items then the customer may have a preference for low cost items as opposed to more expensive higher quality items or luxury items.

Pattern of events may include one or more events. Pattern of events in customer event data may be identified to form customer behavior data in any known or available manner for identifying one or more events associated with a customer that may form a pattern. For example customer event data may be filtered and or processed to identify patterns of events using without limitation a statistical method a data mining method a causal model a mathematical model a marketing model a behavioral model a psychological model a sociological model a simulation model or comparison model. In this example patterns of events are identified by comparing the events in customer event data with a simulation or comparison model to identify patterns of events .

In this manner customer behavior data regarding the customer and the customer s vehicle may be used to identify customer shopping preferences. For example the customer driving a brand new sports car may be identified as a customer with a preference for more expensive higher quality luxury or gourmet items. If customer behavior data indicates a customer drives an older minivan has several children and tends to purchase sale items the customer may be identified as a customer with a preference for purchasing lower cost items. Marketing messages for lower cost or discount items may then be generated for this particular customer based on the customer behavior data for the customer.

In one embodiment customer behavior data is further processed to form dynamic data. In this example processing customer behavior data may include but is not limited to filtering customer behavior data for relevant data elements comparing customer behavior data to baseline or comparison models for customer behavior and or patterns of events and or formatting customer behavior data for utilization and or analysis in one or more data models in set of data models to form the dynamic data.

In another example processing customer behavior data to form dynamic data includes processing customer behavior data with any available internal data and or external data . In this example processing customer behavior data may include but is not limited to filtering customer behavior data for relevant data elements combining customer behavior data with internal data and or external data comparing customer behavior data to baseline or comparison models for external data and or internal data and or formatting customer behavior data for utilization and or analysis in one or more data models in set of data models to form the dynamic data. The processed customer behavior data and any available internal data and or external data forms dynamic data not shown . The dynamic data is analyzed and or further processed using one or more data models in set of data models .

Processing the dynamic data may include but is not limited to identifying a set of personalized marketing message criteria for the customer. This may be accomplished using any known or available method for identifying marketing message criteria. Marketing message criteria may include criteria for selecting items for marketing types of discounts or incentives and or brands of items for marketing to the customer based on the customer s identified shopping preferences to form the dynamic data.

Content server is any type of known or available server for storing modular marketing messages . Content server may be a server such as server in or data processing system in .

Modular marketing messages are two or more self contained marketing messages that may be combined with one or more other modular marketing messages in modular marketing messages to form a customized marketing message for display to the customer. Modular marketing messages can be quickly and dynamically assembled and disseminated to the customer in real time. Transmitting or disseminating the customized marketing message to a display device associated with the customer for display to the customer in real time refers to something that occurs immediately as or within some period of time needed to achieve the objective of using real time display.

In this illustrative example modular marketing messages are pre generated. In other words modular marketing messages are preexisting marketing message units that are created prior to analyzing customer behavior data and any available internal data and or external data associated with a customer using one or more data models to generate a personalized marketing message for the customer. Two or more modular marketing messages are combined to dynamically generate customized marketing message . Customized marketing message is a message that is customized or personalized for a particular customer. Although modular marketing messages are pre generated modular marketing messages may also include templates imbedded within modular marketing messages for adding personalized information such as a customer s name or address to the customized marketing message.

Derived marketing messages is a software component for determining which modular marketing messages in modular marketing messages should be combined or utilized to dynamically generate customized marketing message for the customer in real time. Derived marketing messages uses the output generated by analysis server as a result of analyzing customer behavior data and any available internal data and or external data associated with a customer using one or more appropriate data models in set of data models to identify one or more modular marketing messages for the customer. The output generated by analysis server from analyzing customer behavior data and any available internal data and or external data using appropriate data models in set of data models includes marketing message criteria for the customer.

Derived marketing messages uses the marketing message criteria for the customer to select one or more modular marketing messages in modular marketing messages . In other words derived marketing messages uses the output of one or more data models in set of data models that were used to analyze customer behavior data and any available internal data and or external data associated with a customer to identify one or more modular marketing messages to be combined together to form the personalized marketing message for the customer.

For example a first modular marketing message may be a special on a more expensive brand of peanut butter. A second modular marketing message may be a discount on jelly when peanut butter is purchased. In response to marketing message criteria that indicates the customer frequently purchases cheaper brands of peanut butter the customer has children and the customer is currently in an aisle of the retail facility that includes jars of peanut butter derived marketing messages will select the first marketing message and the second marketing message based on the marketing message criteria for the customer.

Dynamic marketing message assembly is a software component for combining the one or more modular marketing messages selected by derived marketing messages to form customized marketing message . Dynamic marketing message assembly combines modular marketing messages selected by derived marketing messages to create appropriate customized marketing message for the customer. In the example above after derived marketing messages selects the first modular marketing message and the second modular marketing message based on the marketing message criteria dynamic marketing message assembly combines the first and second modular marketing messages to generate a customized marketing message offering the customer a discount on both the peanut butter and jelly if the customer purchases the more expensive brand of peanut butter. In this manner dynamic marketing message assembly provides assembly of customized marketing message based on output from the data models analyzing internal data and or external data associated with the customer.

Customized marketing message is a customized and unique marketing message. The marketing message is a one to one customized marketing message for a specific customer. Customized marketing message is generated using customer behavior data any available external data and or internal data such as the customer s demographics and psychographics to achieve this unique one to one marketing.

Customized marketing message is generated for a particular customer based on dynamic customer data elements such as customer behavior data . For example if modular marketing messages include marketing messages identified by numerals 1 20 customized marketing message may be generated using marketing messages and . In this example modular marketing messages and are combined to create a customized marketing message that is generated for display to the customer rather than displaying the exact same marketing messages to all customers. Customized marketing message is displayed on display device .

Customized marketing message may include advertisements sales special offers incentives opportunities promotional offers rebate information and or rebate offers discounts and opportunities. An opportunity may be a take action opportunity such as asking the customer to make an immediate purchase select a particular item request a download provide information or take any other type of action.

Customized marketing message may also include content or messages pushing advertisements and opportunities to effectively and appropriately drive the point of contact customer to some conclusion or reaction desired by the merchant.

Customized marketing message is formed in a dynamic closed loop manner in which the content delivery depends on customer behavior data external data and or internal data such as profile data and granular demographics . Therefore all interchanges with the customer may sense and gather data associated with customer behavior which is used to generate customized marketing message .

Display device is a multimedia display for presenting customized marketing messages to one or more customers. Display device may be a multimedia display such as but not limited to display devices and in . Display device may be for example a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with a display screen an electronic sign a laptop computer a tablet PC a kiosk a digital media display a display screen mounted on a shopping container and or any other type of device for displaying digital messages to a customer.

Thus a merchant has a capability for interacting with the customer on a direct one to one level by sending customized marketing message to display device . Customized marketing message may be sent and displayed to the customer via a network. For example customized marketing message may be sent via a web site accessed as a unique uniform resource location URL address on the World Wide Web as well as any other networked connectivity or conventional interaction including but not limited to a telephone computer terminal cell phone or print media.

In another embodiment display device includes a printer for printing customized marketing message . For example display device may be a display device mounted on a shopping cart a shopping basket a shelf or compartment in a retail facility included in a handheld device carried by the customer or mounted on a wall in the retail facility. In response to displaying customized marketing message a customer can select to print the customized marketing message as a coupon and or as a paper or hard copy for later use. In another embodiment display device automatically prints customized marketing message for the customer rather than displaying customized marketing message on a display screen or in addition to displaying customized marketing message on the display screen.

In another embodiment display device provides an option for a customer to save customized marketing message in an electronic form for later use. For example the customer may save customized marketing message on a hand held display device on a flash memory a customer account in a data base associated with analysis server or any other data storage device. In this example when customized marketing message is displayed to the customer the customer is presented with a use offer now option and a save offer for later use option. If the customer chooses the save offer option the customer may save an electronic copy of customized marketing message and or print a paper copy of customized marketing message for later use.

In this example customized marketing message is generated and delivered to the customer in response to an analysis of customer behavior data internal data and external data .

Dynamic marketing message assembly transmits a customized marketing message such as customized marketing message in to one or more display devices in a set of display devices. In this example the set of display devices includes but is not limited to digital media display device kiosk personal digital assistant cellular telephone and or electronic sign . Although illustrates a set of display devices including one each of a digital media display device kiosk personal digital assistant cellular telephone and or electronic sign a set of display devices in accordance with the illustrative embodiments may include any combination of display devices and any number of each type of display device. For example a set of display devices may include without limitation six kiosks fifty personal digital assistants and no cellular telephones. In another example the set of display devices may include electronic signs and kiosks but no personal digital assistants or cellular telephones.

Digital media display device is any type of known or available digital media display device for displaying a marketing message. Digital media display device may include but is not limited to a monitor a plasma screen a liquid crystal display screen and or any other type of digital media display device.

Kiosk is any type of known or available kiosk. In one embodiment a kiosk is a structure having one or more open sides such as a booth. The kiosk includes a computing device associated with a display screen located inside or in association with the structure. The computing device may include a user interface for a user to provide input to the computing device and or receive output. For example the user interface may include but is not limited to a graphical user interface GUI a menu driven interface a command line interface a touch screen a voice recognition system an alphanumeric keypad and or any other type of interface.

Personal digital assistant is any type of known or available personal digital assistant PDA such as but not limited to personal digital assistant in and or personal digital assistant in .

Cellular telephone is any type of known or available cellular telephone and or wireless mobile telephone. Cellular telephone includes a display screen that is capable of displaying pictures graphics and or text. Additionally cellular telephone may also include an alphanumeric keypad joystick and or buttons for providing input to cellular telephone . The alphanumeric keypad joystick and or buttons may be used to initiate various functions in cellular telephone . These functions include for example activating a menu displaying a calendar receiving a call initiating a call displaying a customized marketing message saving a customized marketing message and or selecting a saved customized marketing message.

Electronic sign is any type of electronic messaging system. For example electronic sign may include without limitation an outdoor and or indoor electronic light emitting diode LED display moving message boards variable message sign tickers electronic message centers video boards and or any other type of electronic signage.

The display device for displaying the customized marketing message may also be without limitation a printing device for printing the customized marketing message on a paper medium.

Turning now to a block diagram of an identification tag reader for gathering data associated with one or more items is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Item is any type of item such as retail items in . Identification tag associated with item is a tag for providing information regarding item to identification tag reader . Identification tag is a tag such as a tag in identification tags in . Identification tag may be a bar code a radio frequency identification tag a global positioning system tag and or any other type of tag.

Radio Frequency Identification tags include read only identification tags and read write identification tags. A read only identification tag is a tag that generates a signal in response to receiving an interrogate signal from an item identifier. A read only identification tag does not have a memory. A read write identification tag is a tag that responds to write signals by writing data to a memory within the identification tag. A read write tag can respond to interrogate signals by sending a stream of data encoded on a radio frequency carrier. The stream of data can be large enough to carry multiple identification codes. In this example identification tag is a radio frequency identification tag.

Identification tag reader is any type of known or available device for retrieving information from identification tag . Identification tag reader may be a tag reader such as identification tag reader in . For example identification tag reader may be but is not limited to a radio frequency identification tag reader or a bar code reader. A bar code reader is a device for reading a bar code such as a universal product code.

In this example identification tag reader provides identification data item data and or location data to an analysis server such as analysis server in . Identification data is data regarding the product name and or manufacturer name of item . Item data is information regarding item such as without limitation the regular price sale price product weight and or tare weight for item .

Location data is data regarding a location of item within the retail facility and or outside the retail facility. For example if identification tag is a bar code the item associated with identification tag must be in close physical proximity to identification tag reader for a bar code scanner to read a bar code on item . Therefore location data is data regarding the location of identification tag reader currently reading identification tag . However if identification tag is a global positioning system tag a substantially exact or precise location of item may be obtained using global positioning system coordinates obtained from the global positioning system tag.

Identifier database is a database for storing any information that may be needed by identification tag reader to read identification tag . For example if identification tag is a radio frequency identification tag identification tag will provide a machine readable identification code in response to a query from identification tag reader . In this case identifier database stores description pairs that associate the machine readable codes produced by identification tags with human readable descriptors. For example a description pair for the machine readable identification code 10101010111111 associated with identification tag would be paired with a human readable item description of item such as orange juice. An item description is a human understandable description of an item. Human understandable descriptions are for example text audio graphic or other representations suited for display or audible output.

In this example identification tag is a tag associated with item for identifying and or locating item . However in another example identification tag may be an identification tag associated with a customer for identifying and or locating the customer.

Smart detection system is system architecture for analyzing video images captured by a camera pressure sensor data captured by a set of pressure sensors heat sensor data captured by a set of heat sensors and or audio captured by an audio detection device such as a microphone. A set of heat sensors may include one or more heat sensors. A heat sensor is any known or available device for detecting heat such as but not limited to a thermal imaging device for generating images showing thermal heat patterns.

Audio video capture device is any type of known or available device for capturing video images and or capturing audio. Audio video capture device may be but is not limited to a digital video camera a microphone a web camera or any other device for capturing sound and or video images.

Audio video data may include without limitation data associated with audio captured by audio video capture device . Audio data may be a sound file a media file or any other form of audio data. Video data is image data captured by audio video capture device .

Audio video data may also include video images associated with a customer such as a moving video file a media file a still picture a set of still pictures or any other form of image data.

Audio video capture device captures audio associated with a set of one or more customers inside a retail facility and or outside a retail facility to form Audio video data . Audio video capture device may also capture video associated with a set of one or more customers inside a retail facility and or outside a retail facility to form the audio video data . Audio video capture device transmits Audio video data to smart detection engine .

Smart detection engine is software for analyzing Audio video data without human intervention. In other words smart detection engine analyzes audio video data to identify events to form customer event data without requiring a human user to watch the video or listen to the audio data in audio video data . In this example smart detection engine processes Audio video data into data and metadata describing events associated with a customer to form customer event data . Processing audio video data may include filtering audio video data for relevant data elements analyzing audio video data to form metadata describing or categorizing the contents of audio video data or combining audio video data with additional detection data gathered by additional detectors .

Additional detectors are detectors such as without limitation detectors and set of detectors in . Additional detectors are any type of detecting devices for gathering data associated with a customer including but not limited to a camera a motion sensor device a sonar sound recording device audio detection device a voice recognition system a heat sensor a seismograph a pressure sensor a device for detecting odors scents and or fragrances a radio frequency identification RFID tag reader a global positioning system GPS receiver and or any other detection device for gathering additional detection data .

Additional detection data may include any data gathered by additional detectors . Additional detection data may include internal data for a customer and or external data for the customer. In one embodiment additional detection data may be processed with audio video data to generate customer event data . In another embodiment additional detection data is sent to analysis server with customer event data for additional processing to generate customer behavior data.

For example if customer event data indicates that a customer is rapidly selecting items for purchase without pausing to read labels price tags or to closely examine the items and additional detection data from a set of motion detectors and or pressure sensors indicates that the customer is walking at a very fast pace throughout the retail facility customer event data and additional detection data may be used by the analysis server to identify a pattern of events suggesting the customer is in a hurry. This pattern of events in the customer behavior data for the customer may be utilized to generate a customized marketing message for the customer that is designed to save the customer time and or help the customer to complete shopping as quickly as possible.

With reference now to a diagram of a smart detection system for generating customer event data is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention. Smart detection system is a smart detection system architecture for analyzing video images captured by a camera and or audio captured by an audio detection device. Smart detection system includes software for analyzing video and or audio data . Video and or audio data is data such as without limitation audio video data in .

In this example smart detection system processes video and or audio data for the customer and or the customer s vehicle into data and metadata to form customer event data . Smart detection system may be implemented using any known or available software for performing voice analysis facial recognition license plate recognition and sound analysis. In this example smart detection system is implemented as IBM smart surveillance system S software.

An audio video capture device is any type of known or available device for capturing video images and or capturing audio. The audio video capture device may be but is not limited to a digital video camera a microphone a web camera or any other device for capturing sound and or video images. For example the audio video capture device may be implemented as detectors and or set of detectors in .

In this example smart detection system architecture is adapted to satisfy two principles. 1 Openness The system permits integration of both analysis and retrieval software made by third parties. In one embodiment the system is designed using approved standards and commercial off the shelf COTS components. 2 Extensibility The system should have internal structures and interfaces that will permit for the functionality of the system to be extended over a period of time.

The architecture enables the use of multiple independently developed event analysis technologies in a common framework. The events from all these technologies are cross indexed into a common repository or a multi mode event database allowing for correlation across multiple audio video capture devices and event types.

Smart detection system includes the following illustrative technologies integrated into a single system. License plate recognition technology may be deployed at the entrance to a facility where license plate recognition technology catalogs a license plate of each of the arriving and departing vehicles in a parking lot associated with the retail facility.

Behavior analysis technology detects and tracks moving objects and classifies the objects into a number of predefined categories. As used herein an object may be a human customer an item a container a shopping cart or shopping basket or any other object inside or outside the retail facility. Behavior analysis technology could be deployed on various cameras overlooking a parking lot a perimeter or inside a facility.

Face detection recognition technology may be deployed at entry ways to capture and recognize faces. Badge reader technology may be employed to read badges. Radar analytics technology may be employed to determine the presence of objects. Events from access control technologies can also be integrated into smart detection system . The data gathered from behavior analysis technology license plate recognition technology face detection recognition technology badge reader technology radar analytics technology and any other video audio data received from a camera or other video audio capture device is received by smart detection system for processing into customer event data for a particular customer.

The events from all the above surveillance technologies are cross indexed into a single repository such as multi mode database . In such a repository a simple time range query across the modalities will extract license plate information vehicle appearance information badge information and face appearance information thus permitting an analyst to easily correlate these attributes. The architecture of smart detection system also includes one or more smart surveillance engines SSEs which house event detection technologies. Smart detection system further includes Middleware for Large Scale Surveillance MILS and which provides infrastructure for indexing retrieving and managing event metadata.

In this example video and or audio data is received from a variety of audio video capture devices such as detectors in . Video and or audio data is processed in SSEs . Each SSE can generate real time alerts and generic event metadata. The metadata generated by SSE may be represented using extensible markup language XML . The XML documents include a set of fields which are common to all engines and others which are specific to the particular type of analysis being performed by SSE . In this example the metadata generated by SSEs is transferred to a backend MILS system . This may be accomplished via the use of for example web services data ingest application program interfaces APIs provided by MILS . The XML metadata is received by MILS and indexed into predefined tables in multi mode event database . This may be accomplished using for example and without limitation the DB2 XML extender if an IBM DB2 database is employed. This permits for fast searching using primary keys. MILS provides a number of query and retrieval services based on the types of metadata available in the database.

Retrieval services may include for example event browsing event search real time event alert or pattern discovery event interpretation. Each event has a reference to the original media resource such as without limitation a link to the video file. This allows the user to view the video associated with a retrieved event.

Smart detection system provides an open and extensible architecture for smart video surveillance. SSEs preferably provide a plug and play framework for video analytics. The event metadata generated by SSEs may be sent to multi mode event database as XML files. Web services API s in MILS permit for easy integration and extensibility of the metadata. Various applications such as without limitation event browsing real time alerts etc. may use structure query language SQL or similar query language through web services interfaces to access the event metadata from multi mode event database .

The smart surveillance engine SSE may be implemented as a C based framework for performing real time event analysis. SSE is capable of supporting a variety of video image analysis technologies and other types of sensor analysis technologies. SSE provides at least the following support functionalities for the core analysis components. The support functionalities are provided to programmers or users through a plurality of interfaces employed by SSE . These interfaces are illustratively described below.

In one example standard plug in interfaces may be provided. Any event analysis component which complies with the interfaces defined by SSE can be plugged into SSE . The definitions include standard ways of passing data into the analysis components and standard ways of getting the results from the analysis components. Extensible metadata interfaces are provided. SSE provides metadata extensibility. For example consider a behavior analysis application which uses detection and tracking technology. Assume that the default metadata generated by this component is object trajectory and size. If the designer now wishes to add color of the object into the metadata SSE enables this by providing a way to extend the creation of the appropriate XML structures for transmission to the backend MILS system .

SSE provides standard ways of accessing event metadata in memory and standardized ways of generating and transmitting alerts to the backend MILS system . In many applications users will need the use of multiple basic real time alerts in a spatio temporal sequence to compose an event that is relevant in the user s application context. SSE provides a simple mechanism for composing compound alerts via compound alert interfaces. In many applications the real time event metadata and alerts are used to actuate alarms visualize positions of objects on an integrated display and control cameras to get better surveillance data. SSE provides developers with an easy way to plug in actuation modules which can be driven from both the basic event metadata and by user defined alerts using real time actuation interfaces.

Using database communication interfaces SSE also hides the complexity of transmitting information from the analysis engines to multi mode event database by providing simple calls to initiate the transfer of information.

The IBM Middleware for Large Scale Surveillance MILS and may include a J2EE frame work built around IBM s D32 and IBM WebSphere application server platforms. MILS supports the indexing and retrieval of spatio temporal event meta. MILS also provides analysis engines with the following support functionalities via standard web services interfaces using XML documents.

MILS and provide metadata ingestion services. These are web services calls which allow an engine to ingest events into MILS and system. There are two categories of ingestion services. 1 Index Ingestion Services This permits for the ingestion of metadata that is searchable through SQL like queries. The metadata ingested through this service is indexed into tables which permit content based searches such as provided by MILS . 2 Event Ingestion Services This permits for the ingestion of events detected in SSE such as provided by MILS . For example a loitering alert that is detected can be transmitted to the backend along with several parameters of the alert. These events can also be retrieved by the user but only by the limited set of attributes provided by the event parameters.

MILS and or provide schema management services. Schema management services are web services which permit a developer to manage their own metadata schema. A developer can create a new schema or extend the base MILS schema to accommodate the metadata produced by their analytical engine. In addition system management services are provided by MILS and or . The schema management services of MILS and provide the ability to add a new type of analytics to enhance situation awareness through cross correlation. For example a marketing model for a monitored retail marketing environment is dynamic and can change over time.

For example marketing strategies to sell soft drinks may be very different in December than in mid summer. Thus it is important to permit smart detection system to add new types of analytics and cross correlate the existing analytics with the new analytics. To add register a new type sensor and or analytics to increase situation awareness a developer can develop new analytics and plug them into SSE and employ MILS s schema management service to register new intelligent tags generated by the new SSE analytics. After the registration process the data generated by the new analytics can become immediately available for cross correlating with existing index data.

System management services provide a number of facilities needed to manage smart detection system including 1 Camera Management Services These services include the functions of adding or deleting a camera from a MILS system adding or deleting a map from a MILS system associating a camera with a specific location on a map adding or deleting views associated with a camera assigning a camera to a specific MILS server and a variety of other functionality needed to manage the system. 2 Engine Management Services These services include functions for starting and stopping an engine associated with a camera configuring an engine associated with a camera setting alerts on an engine and other associated functionality. 3 User Management Services These services include adding and deleting users to a system associating selected cameras to a viewer associating selected search and event viewing capacities to a user and associating video viewing privilege to a user. 4 Content Based Search Services These services permit a user to search through an event archive using a plurality of types of queries. For the content based search services 4 the types of queries may include A Search by Time retrieves all events from customer event data that occurred during a specified time interval. B Search by Object Presence retrieves the last events from a live system. C Search by Object Size retrieves events where the maximum object size matches the specified range. D Search by Object Type retrieves all objects of a specified type. E Search by Object Speed retrieves all objects moving within a specified velocity range. F Search by Object Color retrieves all objects within a specified color range. G Search by Object Location retrieves all objects within a specified bounding box in a camera view. H Search by Activity Duration retrieves all events from customer event data with durations within the specified range. I Composite Search combines one or more of the above capabilities. Other system management services may also be employed.

The process begins by making a determination as to whether external data associated with a customer is available step . If external data is available the process retrieves the external data step . External data associated with the customer is data gathered by one or more detectors located externally to a retail facility such as retail facility in . External data may be data regarding the customer the customer s property vehicle pets family members children and or companions. A vehicle may be any type of conveyance including but not limited to a car bus truck motorcycle bicycle or any other type of vehicle.

After retrieving the external data in step or if no external data is available in step the process makes a determination as to whether any internal data associated with the customer is available step . If internal data is available the process retrieves the internal data step . Internal customer data may be retrieved from customer profile data and granular demographics data that is pre generated and or stored in a database. Internal customer data may also include data associated with the customer that is dynamically gathered inside the retail facility.

After retrieving the internal data in step or if no internal data is available in step the process receives customer behavior data from a smart detection system step . The process combines the customer behavior data with any available external data and or internal data associated with the customer to form dynamic data step .

The process pre generates or creates in advance one or more appropriate data models using at least one of a statistical method data mining method causal model mathematical model marketing model behavioral model psychographical model sociological model simulations modeling techniques and or any combination of models data mining statistical methods simulations and or modeling techniques step . As used herein the term at least one may refer to a single instance of a single type method model technique or simulation. At least one may also refer to two or more methods models techniques or simulations. In other words a single data model may be used or two data models and a mathematical model may be used. In another example a statistical method a data mining method a causal model a marketing model and a behavioral model are used.

The process analyzes the dynamic data using one or more of the appropriate data models to identify a set of personalized marketing message criteria step . The set of personalized marketing message criteria may include one or more criterion for generating a personalized marketing message based on the customer behavior data.

The process dynamically builds a set of one or more customized marketing messages step using the personalized marketing message criteria. The process transmits the set of customized marketing messages to a display device associated with the customer step for presentation of the marketing message to the customer with the process terminating thereafter. Displaying the customized marketing message to the customer may include displaying the customized marketing message on an electronic display as a video and or audio message displaying the customized marketing message as a static digital message emailing or text messaging the customized marketing message printing the customized marketing message on a paper medium and or playing the customized marketing message as an audio only message.

In this example customer behavior data is processed with internal data and or external data to form the dynamic data that is analyzed by one or more data models. However in another embodiment the customer behavior data is not processed with internal data. In another embodiment the customer behavior data is not processed with external data. In this example the customer behavior data and any internal data and or external data is processed to filter the data and or format the data for analysis by one or more data models.

In this example a smart detection engine processes audio and or video data associated with the customer to form the customer event data. However in another embodiment the smart detection engine may also process data from other detection devices including but not limited to motion detectors sonar devices heat sensors pressure sensors in the floor inside a retail establishment or in a parking lot or walkway outside the retail establishment radio frequency identification tags or any other devices for gathered data associated with a customer that may be used to identify a group of customers that are shopping and or traveling together.

The process begins by making a determination as to whether audio capture is available step . If audio capture is available the process captures audio data associated with the customer step . Audio data may be captured or recorded by a microphone a sonar detection device or any other device for detecting audio or sound waves.

After capturing the audio data in step or in response to a determination that audio capture is not available in step the process makes a determination as to whether video capture is available step . If video capture is available the process captures video data associated with the customer step . Video data may be captured or recorded using any known or available camera or image recording device including but not limited to a web camera and or a digital video camera.

After capturing the video data in step or in response to a determination that video capture is not available in step the process makes a determination as to whether additional detection data is available from additional detectors step . If additional detection data is available the process retrieves the additional detection data associated with the customer step . Additional detection data may be data gathered from a set of pressure sensors a set of heat sensors a set of motion detectors a set of seismographs or any other type of detection device such as additional detectors in .

After retrieving the additional detection data in step or in response to a determination that additional detection data is not available in step the process processes the audio data the video data and or the additional detection data using video analysis audio analysis and other sensor analysis data models to form customer behavior data step with the process terminating thereafter.

The process begins by receiving detection data from a set of cameras step . The process analyzes the detection data using multiple analytical technologies to detect events associated with a customer step . The multiple technologies may include for example a behavior analysis engine a license plate recognition engine a face recognition engine a badge reader engine and or a radar analytic engine.

Events are cross correlated in a set of one or more data models to identify patterns of events step . Cross correlating provides integrated situation awareness across the multiple analytical technologies. The cross correlating may include correlating events to a time line to associate events to define an integrated event. The patterns of events are indexed and stored in a repository such as a database step with the process terminating thereafter.

In the example in the database can be queried to determine whether an integrated event matches the query. This includes employing cross correlated information from a plurality of information technologies and or sources. New analytical technologies also may be registered. The new analytical technologies can employ data models and cross correlate with existing analytical technologies to provide a dynamically configurable surveillance system.

In this example detection data is received from a set of cameras. However in other embodiments detection data may come from other detection devices such as without limitation a badge reader a microphone a motion detector a heat sensor or a radar.

The process begins by retrieving customer event data step . Customer event data may be retrieved from a data storage device such as a relational database a multimodal database or any other data storage. In another embodiment the customer event data may be received in real time from a smart detection system as the customer event data is generated.

The event data includes metadata describing events occurring inside a retail facility or outside a retail facility. Customer event data may include data describing a customer s appearance actions vehicle companions movements and or speed or pace of walking or running.

The process parses the customer event data to identify patterns in the events step . Parsing the customer event data may include but is not limited to processing the event data using a statistical method a data mining method a causal model a mathematical model a marketing model a behavioral model a psychological model a sociological model and or a simulation model.

The identified patterns of events form customer behavior data. The process uses the customer behavior data to generate a customized marketing message for the customer step with the process terminating thereafter.

Thus the illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for customizing marketing messages. In one embodiment data is received from a set of detectors located externally to a retail facility to form external data. External customer data may include data gathered by a camera an audio or sound detection device a seismograph pressure sensors a device for detecting odors scents and or fragrances a motion detector a thermal sensor or other heat sensor device and or any other device for detecting a presence of a human animal and or conveyance vehicle outside of the retail facility.

The external data is processed to form dynamic data. In one embodiment the external data is combined with internal data gathered by a set of detectors located inside the retail facility to form the dynamic data.

The set of dynamic data is analyzed using a data model to identify personalized marketing message criteria for the customer. A customized marketing message is generated using the personalized marketing message criteria. The customized marketing message is transmitted to a display device associated with the customer for display.

The illustrative embodiments provide a safe productive and risk free retail environment where good customers can continue to experience maximum price benefits. The illustrative embodiments allow merchants to encourage impulse shopping and manage market basket revenue. The preferences or likes and dislikes of a customer may better be determined and exploited to increase sales of items to the targeted customer. This may enable maximizing or optimizing sales of retail items sold to a customer at each visit the customer makes to the retail facility which translates into maximizing or optimizing the potential wallet share attributable to the customer.

In addition because marketing incentives are presented to a customer on a digital display device shelving space is no longer at a premium. The location of an item on the shelf such as at eye level as opposed to being placed at floor level will be less important in view of the marketing incentives being pushed to the customer as the customer shops.

The embodiments also permit increased monitoring of purchased and or offered items per customer segment and more effective marketing campaigns. Thus a retail outlet may conservatively increase sales profits by ten to twenty percent on a year to year basis.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the different depicted embodiments illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of some possible implementations of apparatus methods and computer program products. In this regard each step in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified function or functions. In some alternative implementations the function or functions noted in the step may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example in some cases two steps shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

