---

title: System and method for card quality assurance
abstract: A system and method for payment card quality assurance is provided. The system and method use a grid or similar graphic to optically accentuate card surface deformations in test cards. The grid enables a generic test that checks the quality across the whole card surface. Process card monitors with the grid pattern can be used to qualify card-manufacturing processes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08910867&OS=08910867&RS=08910867
owner: Mastercard International Incorporated
number: 08910867
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071002
---
This application is a continuation of International Application PCT US06 012289 filed Apr. 4 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 668 306 filed on Apr. 4 2005 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

A smart payment card is a type of plastic card embedded with a computer chip that stores and transacts data between users. The computer chip includes a microprocessor and memory or only a memory chip with non programmable logic. The data is associated with either value or information or both and is stored and processed within the card s chip. The card data is transacted via a reader that is part of a computing system. It can contain more data than a magnetic stripe card and can be programmed to reveal only the relevant information. For example it could tell a device in a store that there is sufficient balance in an account to pay for a transaction without revealing the balance amount. Encryption techniques secure the data and the processor allows it to be programmed for different applications. Smart cards are now widely deployed for example in healthcare banking entertainment and transportation industries. There are two general categories of smart cards contact and contactless smart cards. A contact smart card requires insertion into a smart card reader with a direct connection to a conductive micromodule on the surface of the card. It is via these physical contact points that transmission of commands data and card status takes place. A contactless card requires only close proximity to a reader. Both the reader and the card have matching radiofrequency antennas providing a contactless electromagnetic link by which the two can communicate.

The smart cards are fabricated for example by embedding a micro module into the plastic substrate or card. Contactless smart cards may be fabricated by laminating the antenna chip module between top and bottom card layers. The antenna is typically 3 5 turns of very thin wire or conductive ink connected to the contactless chip.

The industrial fabrication and the properties of smart cards are subject to voluntary industry standards. A basic smart card standard is the ISO 7816 series part 1 10. These standards are derived from the financial ID card standards and detail the physical electrical mechanical and application programming interface to a contact chip card. For example the ISO 7816 1 Standard limits the physical size of the card. The card is the ID 1 size 85.6 mm 54.0 mm 76 mm . This is the same size as a bank credit card. The standard includes accommodation of exposure limits for a number of electromagnetic phenomena such as X rays UV light electromagnetic fields static electrical fields and ambient temperature of the card. Furthermore ISO 7816 1 defines the mechanical characteristics of a card e.g. when it is bent or flexed to make sure that plastic cards with embedded chips and antennas are manufactured in a way that guarantees flawless operation over the expected lifetime of a card.

Smart cards deployed for example in the payment by card industry also may include features such as magnetic stripes and embossed lettering so that the cards are operable with legacy payment infrastructure such as magnetic stripe card readers and embossed card paper imprinters that are still in use in the field. Embossing allows for textual information or designs on the card to be transferred to paper by using a simple and inexpensive device. ISO 7811 specifies the embossed marks covering their form size embossing height and positioning. Use of magnetic stripe technology advantageously reduces the flood of paper documents associated with embossing. ISO 7811 also specifies the properties of the magnetic stripe coding techniques and positioning.

The smart cards may be fabricated by laminating a foil or inlay which for example supports a chip and antenna into a PVC plastic card. A laminating press may be used adjust the pressure applied to the cards. Too much pressure on a contactless inlay can break the antenna rendering the contactless feature useless.

Consideration is now being given to ways of providing solutions for improving card fabrication. Attention is directed to reducing variations in the physical properties of the cards consistent with commonly accepted standards. In particular attention is directed to improving standard compliance procedures.

The invention provides a system and method for payment card quality assurance. The system and method use a grid or similar graphic to optically accentuate card surface feature or deformations. The system and method may be used to qualify card manufacturing processes. The invention allows for identification prior to volume manufacture of a deformation in the card that may result in unacceptable quality cards.

The grid or similar graphic enables a generic test that checks the quality across the whole card. This whole card testing can replace multiple tests for each card specific graphic thus reducing testing time and costs.

Further features of the invention its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description.

The present invention provides a system and method for payment card quality assurance QA . This system and method employ a grid pattern or similar pattern which optically amplifies or accentuates surface features for the inspecting the surfaces of product payment cards. shows an exemplary grid pattern . Grid pattern preferably blankets the entire card surface which allows the entire card surface to be inspected for defects or deformation quickly for example in plan view.

The grid pattern may be designed to exploit diffraction lenticular or other optical phenomena for amplification of the surface features. The grid pattern may be applied to the surfaces of the subject test cards using an adhesive tape or sticker. Alternatively the grid like pattern may be generated by optical elements e.g. screens in a plan view optical inspection system.

In an exemplary application of the invention process monitor cards are processed through same fabrication steps used for product payment cards. See e.g. process monitor card . The process monitor cards are fabricated to have a surface grid pattern or similar pattern which optically amplifies surface features. The grid pattern or other similar pattern makes plan view inspection of surface defects easier. The process monitor cards may be used to qualify the fabrication process to ensure that the product payment cards fabricated by the process are in compliance with standard industry or any other desired product specifications.

An exemplary application of the inventive QA system and method is described herein with reference to the manufacture of contactless or proximity only payment cards that are fabricated by laminating an inlay together with plastic sheets. The process monitor cards may be fabricated for example by using a plastic sheet that has a printed or built in grid pattern as an overlay sheet in the laminate.

The inlay which may be a discrete or virtual layer inside the payment card carries an antenna and the integrated circuit module PICC . The design of the inlay may be according to ID 1 specifications. A product specification may for example define acceptable card thickness outside embossed areas and add on areas. The thickness of the inlay is such that it allows the generation of a card within a defined product specification.

The antenna and the PICC are geometrically laid out to avoid card areas that are designated for other card features such as embossed characters holograms magnetic stripes etc. show graphically the specification parameters for the location of the antenna and the PICC module respectively. With reference to these figures Tables II and II show exemplary values for the specification parameters for the antenna and PICC module layout respectively.

The product specification may require that the layout appearing on the product payment card should deviate laterally by no more than 0.1 mm as measured against the original image through an optical or electronic device with a magnification of at least 10 times.

In accordance with the invention the card fabrication process may be qualified by testing process monitor cards. The process monitor cards for quality assurance may be fabricated for example by using a plastic sheet which has a printed or built in grid pattern as an overlay sheet in the laminate. shows an exemplary process monitor card fabricated with a plastic sheet having a grid pattern for inspecting compliance with the inlay layout specification. The grid pattern has a suitable spacing e.g. about half a millimeter .

Other card features such as embossed characters holograms magnetic stripes etc. are constructed at later or personalization steps in the card manufacturing process. These card features or characteristics are also subject to the product specifications. Table III and IV show exemplary product specifications for the surface profile of the magnetic stripe and for card surface irregularity and roughness. Quality assurance procedures for these features also may be advantageously based on process monitor cards which have grid patterns on their surfaces to amplify or accentuate the surface features.

In addition to the desired surface characteristics payment cards are designed to withstand a number of mechanical stress conditions during their lifetime and to maintain its functionality for the cardholders at least till their planned expiry dates. The exemplary product card specifications may further include specifications for card characteristics related to mechanical robustness and reliability. The product specification may for example specify mechanical or physical characteristics such as bending stiffness durability overall card warpage heat resistance solidity peel strength adhesion or blocking resistance to surface abrasion etc. The following mechanical tests are often identified in product specifications as relevant to evaluate the mechanical robustness and reliability of payment cards.

Several of these tests involve visual evaluation of the surface features of the payment card after subjecting the card to mechanical stress. For example the Vibration Test involves visual inspection to confirm absence of deformation or cracks up on completion of the test protocol. The 3 Wheel and Impact Tests involves visual inspection to of the test card to note appearance of superficial crackles or breaking of the plastic material. It will be readily understood that the process monitor cards fabricated with surface grid patterns to optically amplify or accentuate the surface features of the cards can be advantageously used to simply visual inspection in the aforementioned and other tests.

It will be further understood that the foregoing is only illustrative of the principles of the invention and that various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

