---

title: Speech recognition for determining if a user has correctly read a target sentence string
abstract: Systems and methods for processing a user speech input to determine whether the user has correctly read a target sentence string are provided. One disclosed method may include receiving a sentence array including component words of the target sentence string and processing the sentence array to generate a symbolic representation of the target sentence string. The symbolic representation may include a subset of words selected from the component words of the target sentence string, having fewer words than the sentence array. The method may include processing user speech input to recognize in the user speech input each of the words in the subset of words in the symbolic representation of the target sentence string. The method may further include, upon recognizing the subset of words, making a determination that the user has correctly read the target sentence string.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103503&OS=08103503&RS=08103503
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08103503
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071101
---
Employing speech recognition features in interactive education computer games and other software tends to enhance user interactivity and the overall user experience. However current methods for performing speech recognition attempt to recognize each word of an entire sentence. This is computationally expensive and difficult to implement especially on handheld mobile devices which in general have central processing units CPU of limited capabilities. In addition current speech recognition methods are computationally cost prohibitive to combine with already computationally expensive computer games. Furthermore since each word must be recognized before a sentence is recognized current methods are not suited for performing speech recognition with small children who tend to be noisy or play in noisy areas which can interfere with recognition of one or more words of a sentence. Lastly current methods tend to err by producing false negatives that is the current methods are more likely not to recognize correctly spoken speech than to recognize incorrectly spoken speech by a user which tends to discourage the user making the user experience unpleasant and thwarting acquisition of reading skills.

Systems and methods for processing a user speech input to determine whether the user has correctly read a target sentence string are provided. One disclosed method may include receiving a sentence array including component words of the target sentence string and processing the sentence array to generate a symbolic representation of the target sentence string. The symbolic representation may include a subset of words selected from the component words of the target sentence string having fewer words than the sentence array. The method may include processing user speech input to recognize in the user speech input each of the words in the subset of words in the symbolic representation of the target sentence string. The method may further include upon recognizing the subset of words making a determination that the user has correctly read the target sentence string.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The application program which may be a role playing education computer game program for teaching a user to read or other computer software may include a target sentence string having a plurality of component words . The application program may generate a text of the target sentence string to be displayed on a display for viewing by the user. The user may attempt to read the text and generate a user speech input via a user input device such as a microphone which is associated with the computing device and is configured to record the user speech input .

It will be appreciated that as used herein the term sentence is used to refer not only to complete sentences but also incomplete sentences and phrases whether grammatically correct or incorrect. Thus example target sentence strings may include TWO ROADS DIVERGED IN A YELLOW WOOD ONE NINE EIGHT FOUR FOUR SCORE AND SEVEN YEARS AGO etc.

The application program may generate a target sentence string including a plurality of component words represented by WWW. . . W and instruct the user to read the target sentence string out loud. An example target sentence string may be THIS DOOR IS THE WAY TO SUCCESS . The application program may be configured to parse the target sentence string and generate a sentence array as represented by W W W. . . W of the target sentence string the sentence array including each component word of the target sentence string . An example sentence array may be THIS DOOR IS THE WAY TO SUCCESS. The application program may be further configured to output the sentence array to the sentence analysis module .

The sentence analysis module may be configured to receive the sentence array from the application program and generate a symbolic representation of the target sentence string . The sentence analysis module may then pass the symbolic representation to the speech recognition module for further processing. The symbolic representation may include a subset of words of the sentence array the subset of words having fewer words than the sentence array . The subset of words may include a first word of the target sentence string an intermediate word selected from a plurality of intermediate words of the target sentence string and a last word of the target sentence string . For example the following symbolic representation THIS DOOR SUCCESS may be generated by the sentence analysis module from the sentence array THIS DOOR IS THE WAY TO SUCCESS.

To address the possibility of a user attempting to guess the intermediate word the intermediate word may be a random intermediate word randomly chosen from a plurality of intermediate words of the target sentence string . In some examples the system may further include a user dictionary of known words including words known to the user and the intermediate word may be selected from the plurality of intermediate words of the target sentence string that are not in the user dictionary of known words.

The speech recognition module may be configured to receive the user speech input from the microphone and receive the symbolic representation from the sentence analysis module . The speech recognition module may be configured to process the user speech input to recognize in the user speech input the subset of words in the symbolic representation of the target sentence string .

The speech recognition module may be further configured to send a notification to the sentence analysis module upon recognizing one or more of the subset of words in the symbolic representation of the target sentence string. The sentence analysis module may be configured to make a determination that the user has correctly read the target sentence string upon receiving the notification from the speech recognition module and send an output indicating whether the user has correctly read the target sentence string to the application program . The output may be a message indicating that recognition of the symbolic representation of the target sentence string failed e.g. FAIL and the recognition process must be restarted or that the recognition was successful e.g. SUCCESS . Upon receiving the output the application program in turn may be configured to send a result message e.g. such as SUCCESS or TRY AGAIN to the display to inform the user whether the sentence was determined by the sentence analysis module to be correctly read out loud.

To aid in determining whether the target sentence string was correctly read the sentence analysis module may further include a timer configured to measure a predetermined time interval within which one or more of the words of the subset of words of the symbolic representation is to be recognized. In one embodiment the sentence analysis module may be configured to determine whether all words in the subset of words were recognized within the predetermined time interval. In another embodiment the sentence analysis module may be configured to determine whether a next word in the subset of words is recognized within the predetermined time interval. If the word or words are not recognized within the predetermined time interval measured by the timer then the sentence analysis module is configured to send as output a FAIL message to the application program to instruct the application program that it may restart listening for the subset of words of the symbolic representation . If the word or words are determined to be recognized within the predetermined time interval then the sentence analysis module is configured to send as output a SUCCESS message to the application program .

At the user may attempt to read out loud the target sentence string according to the displayed text sending user speech input to the speech recognition module from the microphone .

At the sentence analysis module may process the sentence array received from the application program to generate a symbolic representation of the target sentence string. At the sentence analysis module may output the symbolic representation of the target sentence string to the sentence recognition module . The symbolic representation of the target sentence string may include for example a subset of words as represented by W W W the subset of words having fewer words than the sentence array which are selected as described above.

At the sentence recognition module may process user speech input to recognize in the user speech input the subset of words in the symbolic representation. At the sentence recognition module may attempt to recognize a first word of the subset of words as represented by W. At the sentence recognition module may attempt to recognize an intermediate word of the subset of words as represented by W. At the sentence recognition module may attempt to recognize a last word of the subset of words as represented by W.

At the speech recognition module may attempt to determine whether one or more of the subset of words is recognized within a predetermined time interval. In some embodiments all of the words are to be recognized within the predetermined time interval. In other embodiments a time interval within which each word is to be recognized is set and once a first word is recognized the timer restarts for a next word.

At the sentence analysis module may send an output to the application program to indicate that the user has not correctly read the target sentence string if the subset of words is not recognized by the speech recognition module within the corresponding predetermined time intervals.

At the sentence analysis module may send an output to the application program to indicate that the user has correctly read the target sentence string if each word of the subset of words is successfully recognized by the speech recognition module within the applicable predetermined time intervals. At a message indicating that the user has correctly read the target sentence string may be sent by the application program to the display .

In one specific example of the use of the system of during a play session a user may encounter an obstacle such as a closed door. The application program may pass a text of a target sentence string THIS DOOR IS THE WAY TO SUCCESS to be displayed on the display of the computing device. The target sentence string is to be read correctly before the door can be opened for the user to proceed further. The user may attempt to read the text out loud and generate a user speech input via the microphone associated with the computing device on which the application program is executed.

A sentence array of the target sentence string THIS DOOR IS THE WAY TO SUCCESS may be generated by the application program and passed to the sentence analysis module . The sentence analysis module may receive the target sentence string and generate a symbolic representation THIS DOOR SUCCESS. The symbolic representation may then be passed to the speech recognition module for further processing.

The speech recognition module upon receiving the user speech input from the microphone and the symbolic representation from the sentence analysis module may process the user speech input to attempt to recognize the symbolic representation THIS DOOR SUCCESS and may sent a notification to the sentence analysis module upon successful recognition of each word.

The sentence analysis module may determine whether each word or all words of the symbolic representation was recognized within any applicable predefined time interval s . If the sentence analysis module determines that the speech recognition module failed to recognize the symbolic representation within the applicable predefined time interval s the sentence analysis module may send a FAIL output to the application program indicating that the user failed to correctly read the target sentence string and the recognition process must be restarted. On the other hand if the sentence analysis module determines that the speech recognition module successfully recognizes the symbolic representation it may output SUCCESS to the application program indicating that the user has successfully read the target sentence string. Upon receiving a success output the application program may send a SUCCESS message for display on the display associated with the computing device on which the application program is executed. The application program may then proceed and allow the user to pass to the next challenge etc. as appropriate.

At the method may include receiving a sentence array of the target sentence string including the plurality of component words of the target sentence string. At the method may include processing the sentence array to generate a symbolic representation of the target sentence string. The symbolic representation may include a subset of words selected from the component words of the target sentence string the subset of words having fewer words than the sentence array. For example the subset of words may include a first word of the target sentence string an intermediate word of the target sentence string and a last word of the target sentence string. The intermediate word may be a random intermediate word randomly chosen from a plurality of intermediate words of the target sentence string or may be selected by another suitable manner.

In some examples the method may further include maintaining a user dictionary of known words including words known to the user and selecting the intermediate word from the plurality of intermediate words of the target sentence string that are not in the user dictionary of known words.

At the method may include receiving user speech input via a microphone. At the method may include processing the user speech input to recognize in the user speech input each of the words in the subset of words in the symbolic representation of the target sentence string. Processing the user speech input may include recognizing each of the words in the subset of words in series and or in parallel as described above. Alternatively or in addition processing the user speech input may include recognizing one or more of the words in the subset of words in a predefined time interval. For example the predefined time interval may apply to recognition of a next word in the subset of words or to all words in the subset of words.

At upon recognizing the subset of words in the symbolic representation of the target sentence string the method may include making a determination whether the user has correctly read the target sentence string.

At upon making a determination that the user has correctly read the target sentence string the method may include sending an output indicating whether the user has correctly read the target sentence string. As discussed above the output may be sent from an application programming interface to an application program. At the method may include displaying a message indicating whether the user has correctly read the target sentence string on a display device.

The above described systems and methods may be employed to efficiently and accurately conduct speech recognition and determine whether a user has correctly read a sentence without consuming the processing time required to recognize each word in the sentence.

It will be appreciated that the computing devices described herein may be any suitable computing device configured to execute the programs described herein. For example the computing devices may be a mainframe computer personal computer laptop computer portable data assistant PDA computer enabled wireless telephone networked computing device or other suitable computing device and may be connected to each other via computer networks such as the Internet. These computing devices typically include a processor and associated volatile and non volatile memory and are configured to execute programs stored in non volatile memory using portions of volatile memory and the processor. As used herein the term program refers to software or firmware components that may be executed by or utilized by one or more computing devices described herein and is meant to encompass individual or groups of executable files data files libraries drivers scripts database records etc. It will be appreciated that computer readable media may be provided having program instructions stored thereon which upon execution by a computing device cause the computing device to execute the methods described above and cause operation of the systems described above.

In one variation for example speech recognition module and the sentence analysis module may be included within the application program .

It should be understood that the embodiments herein are illustrative and not restrictive since the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims rather than by the description preceding them and all changes that fall within metes and bounds of the claims or equivalence of such metes and bounds thereof are therefore intended to be embraced by the claims.

