---

title: Chirped amplitude modulation ladar
abstract: An imaging method and apparatus using an unmodulated pulsed laser with a chirp modulated receiver is provided for producing 3D plus intensity imagery of targets in heavily cluttered locations The apparatus includes a laser for emitting a laser beam and synchronizing a receiver to receive a reflected laser signal and transform the reflected laser signal into a displayable image that includes intensity information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07570347&OS=07570347&RS=07570347
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07570347
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070626
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

Laser detection and ranging ladar may be used in a military context for elastic backscatter light detection and ranging lidar systems. The acronym LADAR is usually associated with the detection of hard targets while the acronym LIDAR is usually associated with the detection of aerosol targets. However there has been no real standard on their use and both acronyms may be used interchangeably to describe the same laser ranging system. A ladar system is similar to a radar system with the exception that a much shorter wavelength of the electromagnetic spectrum is used typically in the ultraviolet visible or near infrared spectrums. With a radar system it is possible to image a feature or object of about the same size of the wavelength or larger. Due to diffraction limits the laser radiation is easier to collimate than microwave radiation given realistic aperture constraints. This gives a compact ladar the ability to image a target with at a high spatial resolution.

In order for a ladar system target to reflect a transmitted electromagnetic wave an object needs to produce a dielectric discontinuity from its surroundings. At radar frequencies a metallic object produces a dielectric discontinuity and a significant specular reflection. However non metallic objects such as rain and rocks produce weaker reflections and some materials may produce no detectable reflection at all meaning some objects or features are effectively invisible at radar frequencies. In a military context metallic objects may be disguised by use of a non metallic covering material.

Lasers provide one solution to this problem regarding non metallic detection. The beam densities and coherency of lasers are excellent. Moreover the wavelengths are much smaller than can be achieved with radio systems and range from about 10 m to around 250 nm. At such wavelengths the waves are reflected very well from small objects such as molecules and atoms. This type of reflection is called diffuse backscattering. Both diffuse and specular reflection may be used for different ladar applications.

The Army Research Laboratory has demonstrated the capability of its previously patented chirped amplitude modulation AM ladar technique to produce high resolution range resolved intensity imagery 3D intensity of targets in heavy clutter under dense foliage canopy and obscured by camouflage nets. This technique is covered in U.S. Pat. No. 5 877 851 for Scannerless Ladar Architecture Employing Focal Plane Detector Arrays and FM CW Ranging Theory and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 608 514 for High Range Resolution Ladar which are hereby incorporated by reference. These previously patented techniques use a modulated continuous wave CW laser as an illumination source and a photon detection receiver. For some applications a high peak power illumination source is required to satisfy the design requirements which is not easily achieved with a CW source. For those applications it is advantageous to use a short pulse laser as an illumination source due to their high peak powers and commercial availability. However since the duration of the laser pulse is extremely short it is not feasible to chirp modulate the laser intensity as is required with the current ladar architecture Therefore a modification to the existing ranging technique is required.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide apparatuses and methods for using Chirped Amplitude Modulation Ladar. Briefly described one embodiment of the apparatus among others comprises a laser source configured to emit an unmodulated pulsed laser beam a reflection of which produces an optical signal a receiver configured to receive the optical signal a modulator configured to modulate a gain of the receiver to produce a modulated optical signal an integrator configured to determine a state of the modulated optical signal and a detection circuit adapted to measure the amplitude of the state of the modulated optical signal.

One embodiment of such a method among others can be broadly summarized by the following steps triggering a laser to emit an unmodulated laser beam modulating the gain of a receiver receiving at the modulating receiver a reflected laser beam signal associated with the laser beam emission and determining at least one characteristic associated with the reflected laser beam signal.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of the present disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Embodiments of an apparatus for chirped amplitude modulation ladar disclosed herein use a short pulse laser as an illumination source. The illumination source is used to interrogate the state of the local oscillator waveform applied to any modulatable optical receiver compatible with the laser source and modulation waveform. The illumination source is not amplitude modulated with the modulation waveform which can simplify its implementation and allow the use of commercial off the shelf COTS lasers. The laser pulse width is preferably less than one half the pulse width of the maximum modulation frequency and may be as large as several tens of nanoseconds. This pulse width is compatible with commercially available high peak power pulsed lasers.

Several sensors are being developed in the area of long range detection in the classification of targets such as the Laser Illuminated Viewing and Ranging LIVAR imaging sensor and the Cost Effective Targeting System CETS that operate in the 1.55 micrometer wavelength operation. Both sensors function by triggering the laser to transmit a short pulse of light to illuminate the area of interest. Simultaneously an image intensifier is turned on or gated for a short period of time after a predetermined amount of delay from the laser pulse trigger. The gating forms an image on the intensifier tube due to the scattered light from the laser and in a range swath proportional to the gate time roughly 36 meters for a 120 ns gate at a distance from the sensor set by the delay time. These sensors are useful for detecting and classifying targets in the open since they provide high resolution imagery with reasonable signal to noise ratio using the intensifier tube as a receiver and the laser as a controllable illumination source. The sensor has difficulty however in cluttered terrain since it cannot separate targets from clutter objects when they are within the same range swath.

One approach to solving this deficiency is to continue to reduce the gate width to a few nanoseconds thus decreasing the probability that a clutter object and the target are in the same range of the swath. Using this approach would require the sensor to acquire multiple gated images in order to build an effective overall image over a reasonable target size making the gate timing delay difficult to implement. Also generating such a narrow tube gate is very difficult to implement in a practical system.

Another approach is to modify the system so that the actual time of flight of the laser pulse is measured directly on the focal plane. This is the typical detection technique used with single or few detector ranging sensors such as a range finder or scanned imaging ladar. However is very difficult to implement in a large array of detectors. There is significant research to extend the state of the art for such time of flight focal plane array sensors. However there are still significant problems such as pixel cross talk clock noise yield and manufacturability which need to be addressed.

Another previous approach is to directly apply the ARL patented chirp AM ladar technique to the current sensor. To implement this approach the modulation waveform such as a continuous chirp signal would be directly applied to the gain of the image intensifier tube and the intensity of a CW laser source. The two signals would then be multiplied or mixed in the detection process to produce an output signal whose frequency is proportional to the range of the target. Application of this technique has a number of advantages such as the ability to form multiple range cells inside of the current range swath and to image multiple targets in a given pixel. Unfortunately to fully implement this technique requires a modulated high peak power laser illumination source which may be difficult to design.

Modulatable optical receiver shown in may be an electron bombarded image intensifier tube with a voltage controllable optical gain for converting the signal received through receiver optics into an electrical signal. However any modulatable optical receiver compatible with laser source and modulation waveform produced by gate and modulation circuitry such as but not limited to self mixing detectors electro optic modulator followed by detector focal plane array an avalanche photo detector array or a photon counting detector array. In this embodiment the optical receiver is communicatively coupled to an integrating read out structure to integrate the signal over the gate width. However any detection circuit capable of measuring the signal amplitude can also accomplish the signal detection. Read out structure may be comprised of storage and discrete Fourier transform module to produce 4 D range image file for display.

Master controller controls trigger circuit which triggers short pulse laser in an exemplary embodiment. The laser is emitted through transmitter beam shaping optics towards potential objects for which some measurement e.g. distance is desired. Pulse dectector detects the laser pulse emission and together with the master controller signal a time delay to be generated by time delay generator . The time delay generated by time delay generator is used by DDS to adjust the output of gate and modulation circuitry .

Once these parameters are determined in block the DDS may be programmed with a sinusoidal frequency Fand the laser pulse is initiated in block . The laser pulse exits the laser cavity and in block a sample of the pulse is measured by the pulse detector and converted to an electrical signal. In block this electrical signal which is a measure of the exact time of the laser emission is delayed by tand used to trigger the DDS and gating circuit. In block the DDS gates or turns on the electronic bombarded image intensifier tube for tand concurrently modulates the gain of the image intensifier with the sinusoidal signal at frequency F.

Substantially simultaneously the laser pulse travels out to the target at range R is scattered by the target and a portion of the scattered signal is collected by the receiver optics and imaged onto the photocathode of the image intensifier tube in block . The short pulse of a laser light is detected by the photocathode and converted to an electrical signal that is amplified in the image intensifier tube by the instantaneous value of its modulated gain Each detecting element in the focal plane array then integrates the electrical signal over the gate time t amplifies the signal and converts the signal to a digital number that is then stored in the memory device. After the digital data is stored the master controller sets the DDS output frequency to F Fin block and repeats the process. This is continued until in block the number of steps N necessary to complete the chirp waveform is determined to have been reached. In block the stored data is processed using discrete Fourier transforms to generate the 3 D plus intensity data set 4 D image and displayed in an appropriate format in block . Since the same modulation waveform is applied to every pixel of the receiver the ranges and intensities of each scatterer within the gate limited range swath viewed by each pixel are measured so that a 3 D plus intensity image of the scene can be formed using this technique.

As an illustrative case of the embodiment of a target may be imaged at a range of 5 km over a range swath of 18 m with a range resolution of 0.564 m. Using these parameters tis calculated at 33.3 s tis 120.0 ns F is 266 MHz Nis 64 and Fis 4.16 MHz. For this example a starting modulation frequency of 30 MHz is chosen. From the flow diagram of to begin an image collection the master controller sets the DDS output frequency to 30 MHz and initiates a laser pulse. This laser pulse is detected converted to an electrical signal delayed by the time delay generator by 33.3 s and used to trigger the DDS. The DDS gates the tube for 120 ns and simultaneously modulates the gain of the electron bombarded image intensifier tube at a 30 MHz frequency.

The target signal is detected by the photocathode converted to an electrical signal integrated in each signal in the read out structure amplified converted to a digital number and stored in memory. After the digital data is stored the master controller sets the DDS output frequency to 34.16 MHz and repeats the process. This is continued until all 64 frequency steps necessary to complete the chirp waveform are finished. The stored data for each pixel over all frequency steps is then processed using discrete Fourier transforms to generate the 3 D plus intensity data set and displayed on a stereo graphics enabled computer screen.

Mathematically the signals necessary to explain the ladar operation can be expressed using the following simplified equations 

The target signal detected by the image intensifier tube is found by multiplying the target function and the receiver gain function which because of the property of the delta function reduces to 1 cos Gate . This signal is then integrated by the read out structure over the gate width to convert the optical signal to an electrical signal.

When the gating function G is 1 the signal measured by the receiver is proportional to the instantaneous gain modulation cos at the round trip delay time. is a plot of detected target signals for two individual targets at positions of 0.25 and 0.5 respectively. Target signals correspond to the gate width measured from the start of the gate for each frequency step using the parameters given in the example above. As with the original chirp AM ladar each target signal oscillates at a frequency proportional to the target s range and because the target signal is multiplied by the overall gating function this range is limited to be inside of the range swath. As provided in graph provides a discrete Fourier transform of the target s signal which maps the target frequency to target range inside of the gate with the targets 0.25 gate and 0.5 gate appearing in the 8and 16range cell.

If instead of a single target illuminated in a pixel there are two targets simultaneously illuminated in the same pixel represented by a target function t t the signal detected by the receiver at each frequency step is 1 cos Gate 1 cos Gate When both targets are within the gate time so that both Gate and Gate are 1 the signal collected during the chirp will oscillate at the superposition of the two frequencies corresponding to each individual target s range as plotted in . Although waveform appears complicated when plotted as a function of time. After transforming the signal to range space by taking the DFT discrete Fourier transform both targets are easily separated and detected in the plot of the magnitude of the discrete Fourier transform for the 2 target signal depicted by waveform shown in .

Processing embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment s processing is implemented in software or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware as in an alternative embodiment the processing can be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies which are all well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The flow chart of shows the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of the processing software. In this regard each block represents a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in . For example two blocks shown in succession in may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The processing program which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In addition the scope of the present disclosure includes embodying the functionality of the preferred embodiments of the present disclosure in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s of the disclosure without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present disclosure and protected by the following claims.

