---

title: Pharmaceutical clearinghouse for institutions
abstract: A pharmaceutical clearinghouse establishes relationships with a network of FNA Agents servicing requests from patients under institutional patient assistance programs, and with a network of pharmaceutical providers. In response to the clearinghouse receiving a patient request for a pharmaceutical from an FNA Agent, the clearinghouse obtains a subsidy from at least one in-network pharmaceutical provider and provides the subsidy to the FNA Agent; the subsidy may be cash, in-kind pharmaceutical or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442842&OS=08442842&RS=08442842
owner: 
number: 08442842
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070402
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 744 841 filed Apr. 14 2006 entitled PHARMACEUTICAL CLEARINGHOUSE FOR INSTITUTIONS and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 744 029 filed Mar. 31 2006 entitled PHARMACEUTICAL CLEARINGHOUSE METHOD AND SYSTEM.

This application may also be related to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 692 639 entitled PHARMACEUTICAL CLEARINGHOUSE METHOD AND SYSTEM filed Mar. 28 2007 which claimed the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 744 029 filed Mar. 31 2006 entitled PHARMACEUTICAL CLEARINGHOUSE METHOD AND SYSTEM.

The present inventive concepts relate to the field of pharmaceuticals and more specifically to systems and methods for distributing pharmaceutical subsidies to patients via independent Financial Need Assessment Agents or institutions.

Two segments of patients require some form of subsidy or assistance in accessing prescription drugs or other treatments. Pharmaceutical provider such as drug manufacturers assist indigent uninsured patients typically by providing them with free drug. They assist low income but not necessarily indigent under insured patients indirectly through drug discounts in one form or another. In the case of Medicare and Medicaid patients anti kick back statutes and civil monetary penalties can be implicated if these programs are not properly structured. The Office of Inspector General OIG is the branch of the United States government charged with oversight over such matters.

Medicare launched the Part D prescription drug plan PDP on Jan. 1 2006. Up to thirty million Americans were anticipated to sign up for Part D coverage by the end of 2006 and likely more later. The Part D prescription drug plan is designed to encourage patients to seek out lower cost drugs and therapeutic alternatives. The program typically requires the patient to cover the first 250 of prescription drug costs themselves pays 75 of the amount thereafter up to 2 250 after which there is no coverage or a donut hole until the patient reaches 5 100 in total drug costs after which they pay only 5 in co pay. In addition the patients must pay a monthly premium of 25 40 depending on their specific plan. The plan itself is offered by participating private insurers who in turn are subsidized by Medicare. Patients must sign up for Part D coverage by May 1 2006 or risk paying higher premium e.g which could escalate by 1 per month . For patients on high cost drugs the co pay and premium can exceed 4 000 per year which for lower income families can represent a life transforming burden the average US household has about 45 000 of annual income spread across 2.6 family members . Likewise some patients with Part B coverage also face a 20 co pay on their treatments.

Historically the pharmaceutical industry has supported efforts by institutions such as disproportionate share hospitals DSH to assist many of the Medicare uninsured or underinsured with free drugs. Now that the Part D program is operational there will be fewer uninsured Medicare patients as many will choose to enroll in the Part D benefit. However given the design of the Part D program and the associated high co pays many of these patients will be underinsured and still unable to afford their medications. Under the donut hole coverage structure of the Part D benefit many patients that currently are on drug for free programs face out of pocket costs as high as 4 000 per year e.g. for a biologic drug that costs 15 000 year . Pharmaceutical providers have offered to discount these drugs but are wary of running afoul of the anti kickback statutes. To summarize the relevant statutes include 

1. Civil Monetary Penalties CMP provision Social Security Act 1128A a 5 Civil statute prohibiting the giving of something of value to Medicare or Medicaid patients that the donor knows or should know is likely to influence the patient s selection of a particular provider or supplier of any item payable by Medicare or Medicaid.

2. Anti kickback statute Social Security Act 1128B b Criminal statute prohibiting the knowing and willful offer payment solicitation or receipt of any remuneration to induce or reward referrals of items or services payable by a Federal health care program. Remuneration includes transfer of anything of value directly or indirectly overtly or covertly in cash or in kind. The one purpose test is relevant i.e. if you do 15 things that are all good but one that violates the anti kickback statues then you are liable. Statute applies to parties on both sides of the transaction.

With the latest guidelines provided by the OIG there are two broad ways or models for helping the Medicare covered financially needy without running afoul of the federal anti kickback statutes. Model is the outside of the Part D model under which pharmaceutical providers can distribute free drug to the financially needy so long as the recipients do not apply any part of the implied value of the drug towards their co pays or TrOOPs True Out Of Pocket expense under the Part D coverage. Further the donor pharmaceutical provider must inform the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS appointed Coordinator of Benefits COB about the subsidy so that it can inform the Part D plans administrating the coverage. Model is the inside the Part D model under which the pharmaceutical provider can provide a cash subsidy to the patient through an independent charity as described above.

Currently pharmaceutical drug manufacturers are allowed to assist the uninsured patients through bulk drug replacement patient assistance programs PAP . In these cases pharmaceutical providers or their affiliated PAPs provide in kind donations in the form of free drugs to pharmacies health centers clinics and other entities that dispense drugs to qualifying uninsured patients directly. These programs potentially implicate the Federal anti kickback statute if the free drugs are given to a recipient that is in a position to generate Federal healthcare program business for the donor manufacturer. In evaluating such a program the OIG looks at a number of factors and the safeguards in place to 1 protect the Federal health care program beneficiaries from being steered to particular drugs based on the financial interests of their health care providers or suppliers 2 protect the Federal health care program from increased costs and 3 ensure that bulk drugs are not improperly charged to Federal health care programs.

Separately the OIG has also allowed pharmaceutical providers to provide cash assistance to the underinsured inside of Part D through independent charities or foundations. There are five OIG mandated requirements that apply to such arrangements 1 the manufacturer can have no influence or control over the program 2 the assistance is awarded in a truly independent manner i.e. no link between a manufacturer s donation and beneficiary s receipt of assistance 3 the assistance is awarded without regard to the manufacturer s interests or beneficiary s choice of provider i.e. which doctor or pharmacy 4 the assistance is awarded based on reasonable verifiable and uniform measures of financial need and 5 there is no data exchange that allows a manufacturer to correlate its donations to the number of prescriptions subsidized by the charity. Contributions can be limited to specific disease states but not so narrowly that only one of many available brands qualifies. Product contributions in lieu of cash while eligible for TrOOP patient s True Out Of Pocket Costs or co pay per CMS are problematic since they can create a direct correlation between the donation and the use of the product particularly if that one brand is the only option offered by the charity.

There are a number of foundations that assist under insured patients with out of pocket costs. They include Patient Services Inc. PSI Patient Advocate Foundation Chronic Disease Fund National Organization for Rare Disorders. Patient Access Network Foundation PANF and the Healthwell Foundation.

As a means of helping Medicare Part D enrollees meet their cost sharing obligations and operate inside of Part D institutional PAPs are problematic. Institutional PAPs create the same heightened risk of violating the anti kickback statute as traditional PAPs because they create an incentive for a safety net provider to steer Part D enrollees towards the sponsoring pharmaceutical provider s products. In addition the PAPs can create compliance risks if the pharmaceutical providers are offered an inducement to have their products included in the foundation s formulary. The OIG also warns that institutional PAPs raise substantial risks related to accounting for the amount of replacement drug that would be equivalent to the cost sharing amount owed by the beneficiary properly attribute that amount to beneficiaries and properly calculating TrOOP. 

As a means of helping uninsured patients with free drug operating outside of Part D whereby patients may not apply any value of the free drug towards their TrOOP or cost sharing obligations the institutional bulk drug programs also face challenges. This is because the institutional programs cannot award assistance without regard to the providers or suppliers used by the enrollee since the drugs available are from only manufacturers that voluntarily participate in providing free drugs to the hospital.

The allowed independent charity or foundation model has not been adapted for institutions in any significant manner for use with either inside or outside of Part D models and thus does not help institutions in their efforts to aid the underinsured. Further while the independent charity model offers many benefits and helps to address a number of concerns around the Civil Monetary Provisions and the Anti Kickback statutes over the few years a number of limitations of this model have become evident.

Drug manufacturers are reluctant to contribute funds given the strong possibility of subsidizing direct non generic competitors Drug manufacturers are willing to assist under insured patients by discounting their drugs substantially in some form or fashion while still retaining a positive contribution margin. This is different from programs directed at the uninsured where the manufacturers give away free drug effectively at a loss up to the limits of their charitable budgets and means. Currently a foundation must assist patients without regard to the brand of drug prescribed including generics. This ensures that a physician s treatment choice is not biased towards brands that provide assistance but is instead determined solely based on medical need. Also in this way generic drugs which provide an important policy lever for reigning in health costs are not disadvantaged even when they choose not to participate in such subsidy discount arrangements.

While many pharmaceutical companies are prepared to let generics compete on equal footing relative to assistance they are unwilling to fund other direct competitors that offer drugs no different from theirs relative to price or efficacy In fact as shown in the following analysis unless a manufacturer were certain that each player in the industry was doing its share not only is the cost of assistance high but worse the benefits can accrue to their arch enemy or to free riders. In these cases the system creates an incentive for the manufacturer to try to game the system in some manner to ensure that in fact its brand captures the majority of the subsidized prescriptions. In other cases it dissuades many pharmaceutical companies from stepping up their contributions to support the underinsured.

Most drug manufacturers support one foundation often one that is different from the one supported by their direct competitor shows economics of a drug manufacturer supported foundation assuming their brand has a 30 market share of new patients. This case study uses numbers fairly typical for manufacturers of biologic drugs. The analysis shows that the sponsoring manufacturer suffers a net contribution loss of 1 906 per patient. But worse still the donor contributes 8 400 i.e. 12 000 3 600 in revenues per acquired patient to the competitors. Some of this would be obviously compensated back in the form subsidies from the competitor s foundation. However to be certain of that a drug manufacturer would have to assume that the competitor favored foundation was not gaming the system in some manner. As we know from the theory of economics in any highly competitive industry such indirect collusion is highly unlikely.

It was OIG s intent to create a system that does not disadvantage generic and low cost therapies but not one where smaller share competitors are disadvantaged or that any drug manufacturer is in the uncomfortable position of helping competitors that deliver no cost benefit to the Medicare system. shows that larger share competitors have greater certainty of positive contribution for a typical manufacturer with the economic structure shown in Exhibit . Conversely new market entrants that by definition have low share face the highest penalties in participating in foundation based programs to assist the underinsured. Once new patient market share or in other words the share of manufacturer funding that goes towards their own brand exceeds 50 the foundation model becomes unconditionally viable. In even markets with modest competition 50 or greater shares are unlikely.

The separation between the foundation and the drug manufacturer is not robust since the economic interests of the foundations and the donor are nearly completely aligned The primary source of funding for most of the current foundations is a single pharmaceutical company per disease state. However as discussed above the pharmaceutical companies would be unwilling to contribute without some level of assurance that the majority though not necessarily all of their funding is going towards their own drugs. Hence there is a built in economic incentive for a foundation to whisper in some assurances to the manufacturer about their share of the funding in order to curry the favor of the donor and obtain increased funding.

In fact some of the leading foundations and their initial board member appointments have been set up by reimbursement companies that do significant business with both the foundations they have set up and the pharmaceutical companies. Further there is no oversight mechanism over the foundations to ensure that no gaming goes on. Since eligibility criteria are set and interpreted by the foundations individually without external audits there can also be sufficient latitude to game the system in a variety of ways.

Poor patient experience inefficiency and hence added cost in the system Currently it makes sense for a patient to apply to as many foundations as possible in some cases as many as three to seven since she cannot be sure which ones actually have funds will approve her application and for what amount. Each foundation has its own application process and eligibility requirements. For elderly patients already burdened by the complexity of Part D plan choices this is yet another daunting challenge.

The lack of uniform eligibility criteria runs counter to the OIGs desire for increased consistency and objectivity in the approval of all applications. Finally since multiple foundations are processing applications independently for each patient there are needless costs to the system as a whole which ultimately detracts funds available for patients.

Further since the foundations compete with each other for patients there is an incentive for each foundation to make a more generous offer than the other provided they have funding. As each foundation has its own eligibility criteria and latitude in assistance determination and there is no standardization or audits it is hard to tell how rampant this problem is. This can inadvertently remove the co pay pressure on the patient and make them indifferent to even high treatment costs.

No incentive for generic manufacturers to contribute Given their price points generic manufacturers have no incentive to contribute to the foundations. For every branded manufacturer they end up subsidizing the needed sales of their own generic drug will be impossibly high.

The present inventive concepts relate to a method of providing a pharmaceutical clearinghouse configured for providing pharmaceutical subsidies to independent Financial Need Assessment Agents FNA Agents serving patients under institutional patient assistance programs or PAPs. The clearinghouse of the present disclosure can be implemented outside or inside of Medicare Part D as examples.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention provided is a method of providing a pharmaceutical clearinghouse for institutional patient assistance programs PAPs . The method comprises. establishing a network of FNA Agents each in network FNA Agent configured to receive patient requests for drugs under one or more of the PAPs and establishing a network of pharmaceutical providers each in network pharmaceutical provider configured to distribute subsidies to satisfy the patient requests. The method also includes establishing a clearinghouse between the network of FNA Agents and the network of pharmaceutical providers including the clearinghouse receiving a patient request from an in network FNA Agent determining a subsidy required to satisfy the patient request from one or more of the in network pharmaceutical providers directing the subsidy from the one or more in network pharmaceutical providers to the in network FNA Agent in response to the request. And the method includes maintaining independence between the in network FNA Agents and the in network pharmaceutical providers.

The subsidy can only be in kind drug available from one or more of the in network pharmaceutical providers.

If the drug is available from the in network pharmaceutical provider the method can include the in network pharmaceutical provider providing the subsidy in the form of only in kind drug.

If the drug is available from the in network pharmaceutical provider the method can include the in network pharmaceutical provider providing the subsidy in the form of in kind drug and cash.

If the drug is available from the in network pharmaceutical provider the method can include establishing a fair market value of the drug by the in network pharmaceutical provider providing at least a portion of the subsidy in the form of cash and procuring the drug on the open market with the cash.

If the drug is not available from any in network pharmaceutical provider the method can include the clearinghouse determining an amount needed to procure the drug and the clearinghouse determining a cash portion of the amount to be paid by one or more of the in network pharmaceutical providers.

Determining the cash portion can include determining a pro rata portion to be paid by each of the in network pharmaceutical providers including determining the pro rata portion as a function of the total amount of all subsidies provided by the in network pharmaceutical providers.

The method can include the patient submitting a single application and a plurality of FNA Agents processing the application to generate competitive offers to obtain the subsidy and provide the drug.

The method can further comprise the clearinghouse establishing a low cost pharmaceutical provider threshold whereby in network pharmaceutical providers that provide drugs that cost less than the low cost threshold do not subsidize in network pharmaceutical providers having drugs that cost more than the low cost threshold.

The method can further comprise the clearinghouse establishing a low cost pharmaceutical provider threshold whereby in network pharmaceutical providers that provide drugs that cost less than the low cost threshold provide subsidies in a smaller proportion than the in network pharmaceutical providers having drugs that cost more than the low cost threshold.

The method can further comprise establishing a uniform and auditable standard of patient need assessment to determine eligibility for the subsidy.

The method can further comprise providing the subsidy in the form of one or more coupons that can be applied against the drug costs and patient co pay for any drug in a given disease state.

The method can further comprise generating an order for obtaining the subsidy from a designated third party wholesaler.

The method can further comprise generating an order for obtaining the subsidy from an institutional represented by the FNA Agent.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a pharmaceutical clearinghouse system for institutional patient assistance programs PAPs . The clearinghouse system comprises a set of FNA Agent modules configured to establish a network of FNA Agents each in network FNA Agent configured to receive a patient request for a drug under one or more of the PAPs a set of pharmaceutical provider modules configured to establish a network of pharmaceutical providers each in network pharmaceutical provider configured to distribute subsidies to satisfy the patient requests and a set of subsidy module configured to determine a subsidy required from one or more of the in network pharmaceutical providers to satisfy a patient request for a drug received from an in network FNA Agent and to direct the subsidy to the FNA Agent. The clearinghouse system is configured to maintain independence between the in network FNA Agents and the in network pharmaceutical providers.

The subsidy can be only in kind drug available from one or more of the in network pharmaceutical providers.

The set of subsidy modules can be configured to determine if the drug is available from an in network pharmaceutical provider.

If the drug is available from the in network pharmaceutical provider the set of subsidy modules can be configured to request the subsidy from the in network pharmaceutical provider in the form of only in kind drug.

If the drug is available from the in network pharmaceutical provider the set of subsidy modules can be configured to request the subsidy from the in network pharmaceutical provider in the form of in kind drug and cash.

If the drug is available from the in network pharmaceutical provider the set of subsidy modules can be configured to establish a fair market value of the drug by requesting the in network pharmaceutical provider to provide at least a portion of the subsidy in the form of cash to enable procurement of the drug on the open market with the cash.

If the drug is not available from at least one in network pharmaceutical provider the set of subsidy modules can be configured to determine an amount needed to procure the drug and determine a cash portion of the amount to be paid by one or more of the in network pharmaceutical providers.

The set of subsidy modules can be configured to determine a pro rata portion of the cash portion to be paid by each of the one or more in network pharmaceutical providers as a function of the total amount of all subsidies provided by the in network pharmaceutical providers.

The clearinghouse system can be configured to make the patient request accessible by a plurality of the in network FNA Agents to enable the plurality of in network FNA Agents to generate competitive offers to obtain the subsidy and provide the drug.

The clearinghouse system can be configured to establish a low cost pharmaceutical provider threshold and the set of subsidy modules is configured to determine the subsidy such that in network pharmaceutical providers that provide drugs that cost less than the low cost threshold do not subsidize in network pharmaceutical providers having drugs that cost more than the low cost threshold.

The clearinghouse system can be configured to establish a low cost pharmaceutical provider threshold and the set of subsidy modules is configured to determine the subsidy such that in network pharmaceutical providers that provide drugs that cost less than the low cost threshold provide subsidies in a smaller proportion than in network pharmaceutical providers having drugs that cost more than the low cost threshold.

The clearinghouse system can be configured to establish a uniform and auditable standard of patient need assessment to determine eligibility for the subsidy.

The clearinghouse can be configured to generate the subsidy in the form of one or more coupons that can be applied against the drug costs and patient co pay for any drug in a given disease state.

The set of subsidy modules can be configured to generate an order for obtaining the subsidy from a designated third party wholesaler.

The set of subsidy modules can be configured to generate an order for obtaining the subsidy from an institutional represented by the FNA Agent.

A pharmaceutical clearinghouse establishes relationships with a set of Financial Need Assessment Agents FNA Agents representing a set of institutions and a set of pharmaceutical providers. An FNA Agent as used herein can be a foundation qualified independent entity or the disbursement office within an institution having a patient assistance program PAP or any other entity recognized by the OIG as able to serve such role in the present context. An institution can be a hospital or other healthcare entity or any other entity recognized by the OIG as able to serve such role in the present context. A pharmaceutical provider as used herein can be a drug company or manufacturer or other entity recognized by the OIG as able to serve such role in the present context. Optionally a set of Designated 3Party Wholesalers D3PWs of pharmaceuticals could be provided to assist in distributing pharmaceuticals.

In response to the clearinghouse receiving a patient request for a pharmaceutical from an FNA Agent representing an institution with a PAP the clearinghouse obtains or otherwise directs a subsidy from at least one pharmaceutical provider and provides the subsidy to the FNA Agent e.g. see Model of . In some embodiments the institution itself can act as or include the FNA Agent by establishing an independent office that disburses subsidies to patients without regard to their use of the institution s services e.g. see Model of . Systems methods and computer program products can implement the clearinghouse in a variety of forms without departing from the present invention. The subsidy may be in the form of cash in kind pharmaceutical e.g. drug or a combination thereof. What follows are embodiments of various aspects of the present invention.

The current model for assisting the under insured relies on a single black box namely a foundation to separate the patient from the donor pharmaceutical provider. To address the problems with this model one needs to have two black boxes in tandem between the patient and the pharmaceutical provider to make the system of giving and receiving assistance double blind. Additionally to address efficiency and effectiveness concerns the second black box should also function as a clearinghouse much as MasterCard Visa serve the credit card industry and Galileo Sabre serve the travel industry.

In various embodiments of the pharmaceutical clearinghouse for institutions participating pharmaceutical providers funnel their subsidies for at least one disease state e.g. rheumatoid arthritis diabetes Alzheimer s and so on through at least one clearinghouse which in turn allocates and passes along the subsidies to enrolled or in network FNA Agents. The FNA Agents continue to deal with patients as they currently do but no longer receive direct funding directly from the pharmaceutical providers e.g. drug manufacturers. Each FNA Agent sends its applications to the clearinghouse and receives subsidies to address patients requests e.g. full or partial funding the pharmaceutical or a combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes provided herein are two examples of models within which the institutional clearinghouse of the present disclosure can be implemented Outside Part D and Inside Part D.

In the Inside Part D Model of pharmaceutical providers can provide subsidies in a mix of cash and free drug e.g. 80 free drug and 20 cash . To avoid possibilities of patient steering toward the brands of the donor pharmaceutical providers the clearinghouse can use the cash provided by pharmaceutical providers to cover the brands of non participating drug manufacturers to purchase those drugs on the open market e.g. at wholesale from the D3PWs in the same proportions e.g. 80 free drug and 20 cash and disburse them accordingly through the FNA Agents .

In the preferred form of either model i.e. Outside Part D or Inside Part D each patient needs only to apply to one FNA Agent of their choice. This eliminates duplicate processing caused when patients apply to multiple FNA Agents. The clearinghouse treats each of the FNA Agents substantially the same it preferably does not favor one FNA Agent over another.

Role of the Financial Need Assessment Agent FNA Agent An FNA Agent can be any entity previously described and should be independent of influence from the donor pharmaceutical providers . The FNA Agent may also optionally be independent of the institution e.g. Hospital as in Model of . As mentioned above the FNA Agent can be a foundation qualified independent entity or the disbursement office within an institution. The FNA Agent is responsible for processing the applications of patients referred by an institution under a PAP and authorizing the disbursement of subsidies. In the Outside Part D model the subsidies will likely be all in kind pharmaceuticals and upon authorization can be disbursed by the institution out of its bulk replacement drug inventory for example. The pharmaceutical could also be provided directly from a pharmaceutical provider or D3PW .

In the case of an Inside Part D model as in where subsidies may be in cash in kind or a combination thereof the institution e.g. hospital can disburse in kind drug out of its bulk replacement drug inventory and cash subsidies through the FNA Agent. That is in the preferred form the FNA Agent should not favor one pharmaceutical provider over another. Patients may work with any FNA Agent of their choice based on their perception of its quality of service. Preferably the amount of funding approved for the patient from one FNA Agent to the next will be substantially the same because each patient request is preferably honored by the clearinghouse regardless of the FNA Agent that submitted it. While an FNA Agent can canvas pharmaceutical providers to contribute subsidies for current and future disease states which it should as an advocate of patient care all subsidies would flow through or under the direction of the clearinghouse to all enrolled FNA Agents and not just the canvassing FNA Agent and institutions . In the preferred form the FNA Agents would not receive any funds directly from a participating provider for a given disease state unless under the direction of the clearinghouse .

Role of the Clearinghouse The clearinghouse is responsible for informing participating pharmaceutical providers e.g. drug manufacturers of their allocated share of the needed subsidies and then collecting and disbursing or otherwise directing the subsidies appropriately to each FNA Agent and institution. In the preferred embodiment subsidies are not provided to any patients directly but in various other embodiments it may be allowed with appropriate assurances and accountability. Additionally the clearinghouse could host a number of shared processes to increase efficiencies e.g. lower cost improve response time etc. and enforce standardization. The clearinghouse can also audit the FNA Agents institutions and the D3PW to ensure process conformance. The clearinghouse can also reconcile inventory and disbursements across the FNA Agents institutions D3PWs and the pharmaceutical providers.

In various embodiments the clearinghouse can do one or more of 1 track and reconcile patient assistance to dispensed inventory 2 place bulk orders for all hospitals with the pharmaceutical providers 3 track and reconcile shipments to hospitals 4 bill hospitals and D3PW for any missing inventory e.g. at average sale price ASP and reimburse the appropriate pharmaceutical providers and 5 inform the COP of TrOOP usage for each patient.

Role of the Designated 3Party Wholesaler s D3PW The D3PW is an entity that can be optionally included to assist in the distribution or disbursement of pharmaceutical subsidies. When included the D3PW is responsible for processing orders for drugs from institutions and shipping them. The D3PW receives the drugs in bulk from the pharmaceutical providers. The D3PW can disperse drug in response to an order from the clearinghouse which can be generated as a result of a patient request submitted by an FNA Agent. But the D3PW need not know the quantities ultimately shipped to each institution. The D3PW is fully responsible for reconciling its inventories and disbursements with the clearinghouse.

Role of the institutions The institutions evaluate the insurance coverage of patients and refer patients requiring assistance to the FNA Agents. For example if the institutions have PAPs the FNA Agents can act on behalf of the institutions and their respective PAPs. Once the patient request is processed through an FNA Agent and the clearinghouse the institution can dispense the drug under the direction of the clearinghouse e.g. from the institution s bulk supply. The institutions can place periodic replacement orders for the dispensed drugs with the D3PWs. The institutions will be fully responsible for reconciling their inventories and disbursements with clearinghouse.

How the process works Preferred Embodiment Typically a patient goes to a particular institution with a health issue. In the course of his treatment the patient is prescribed a particular drug. If the patient does not have the means to fully pay for the drug e.g. because he is uninsured and indigent or because his insurance coverage is inadequate the patient can request assistance under a PAP of the institution. The institution in turn can refer the patient to an FNA Agent which in some cases can operate out of the institution s business office.

In the illustrative embodiment the clearinghouse furnishes the FNA Agent with a standardized application for the disease state covering the requested brand. Given a standardized application criteria and methodology the amount of financial assistance from one FNA Agent to the next and hence also from one institution to the next will not vary significantly. Upon completion of the application the FNA Agent will inform the clearinghouse of the amount of assistance requested and the clearinghouse will authorize its disbursement to the institution. In general the clearinghouse will not collect or review the applications and the only information it will have in this embodiment is the patient s social security number brand of drug prescribed the name of the requesting institution and the amount of financial assistance required for such patient requested pharmaceutical. In other embodiments it may be allowable for the FNA Agent itself to authorize the disbursement of the subsidy to the institution in order to minimize handoffs and increase process efficiency. Once the institution receives the authorization it can disburse any free drug subsidy from its bulk inventory. If the subsidy is in cash the cash can be disbursed by the FNA Agent directly to purchase the required drug.

In the Outside Part D model e.g. as in the embodiment of at the end of each month the clearinghouse can compute the total subsidy disbursed across all brands by all participating institutions for a given disease state and can place bulk orders with donor pharmaceutical providers to deliver the drugs to D3PWs.

In the Inside Part D model e.g. as in the embodiment of at the end of each month the clearinghouse can compute the ratio of the total funds disbursed across all brands to and by all participating foundations for a given disease state versus the total funds needed to cover the brands of the in network pharmaceutical providers. For example if the disease state is rheumatoid arthritis and the clearinghouse and FNA Agents disbursed 138K for bands offered by participating non participating pharmaceutical providers with 100K for brands offered by participating pharmaceutical providers for the disease state then the ratio is 138K 100K which is 138 . Next each pharmaceutical provider would be asked to fund fully the amount needed to cover its brand plus the percentage needed to cover non participating or out of network pharmaceutical providers brands i.e. the 38 or 38K .

In various embodiments the clearinghouse can set uniform criteria for enrolling FNA Agents in what can be considered a network of FNA Agents and institutions. Pharmaceutical providers e.g. drug manufacturers will have no involvement in the enrollment process. Generally all FNA Agents that offer competitive costs and quality of service will be allowed to join the network. Examples of situations in which an FNA Agent may not be allowed to join in the network may include one or more of the following the FNA Agent s administrative charges are significantly higher than the norm relative to others in the network the FNA Agent has been set up to assist just small amount e.g. 1 2 patients when the norm for others is much greater e.g. 500 the FNA Agent has been found to violate the required processes for evaluating patient need and eligibility the FNA Agent has been found to or is reasonably believed to have engaged in unethical or illegal conduct etc. However as a general matter the clearinghouse will in most instances be inclined to enroll more not fewer FNA Agents. Likewise any institution that meets a uniform criteria defined by the clearinghouse will typically be allowed to join the network and access subsidies from any and all enrolled pharmaceutical providers in the network.

In various embodiments the clearinghouse preferably has no role in evaluating patient applications or determining the amount of assistance. The clearinghouse merely matches subsidies e.g. cash in kind drug or both efficiently to the FNA Agents that request the assistance. The FNA Agents will bear the responsibility as they often currently do for attracting evaluating processing and approving patient applications per standardized criteria. The FNA Agents can then disburse their subsidies received via the clearinghouse .

In various embodiments eligibility criteria for privately insured patients will be designed to be the same or similar to those used for Medicare patients except where disallowed by existing contracts with such insurers. Specifically they will generally not be more generous towards Medicare patients. This ensures that the cost control pressures that private insurers apply towards their own patients e.g. up tiering generics requiring prior authorizations or failure of lower costs therapies first etc. are equally felt by Medicare patients subsidized by the United States Federal government.

In various embodiments the eligibility criteria will consider income and assets for patients requiring acute therapy and income and available annual cash flow for chronic therapies. Hence such criteria may cover income local cost of living family size expenses scope and extent of patient medical bills co pay gap versus current payments etc. The criteria may be somewhat different by disease state i.e. more generous for high cost therapies. To ensure that patients are only receiving funding to the level they need and not needlessly eliminating cost pressures the application will be reasonably thorough.

In various embodiments the clearinghouse and the pharmaceutical provider will have no direct contact with the patients in the processing their application.

In various embodiments the FNA Agents and patients will receive no direct funds for the disease state from the pharmaceutical provider e.g. drug manufacturer .

In various embodiments the FNA Agents will disburse assistance purely on the basis of patient financial need without regard to the brand prescribed.

In various embodiments participation in the clearinghouse models and by pharmaceutical providers and the FNA Agents is entirely voluntary. Preferably for any given disease state the pharmaceutical provider e.g. drug manufacturer can provide assistance directly to an in network FNA Agent or through the clearinghouse but not both simultaneously in a given balance of calendar year.

In various embodiments assistance to existing patients in all of the in network FNA Agents typically foundations will also flow through the clearinghouse in the future to simplify transaction processing and lower system costs. Patients themselves will see no difference in their interactions since they will continue to deal with the FNA Agent with which they currently work. However they will be required to give permission to the FNA Agent to transfer the required information to the clearinghouse as a condition for future continuation of funding. Most FNA Agents already require patients to re qualify annually and this would be added to all future re qualification requests.

In various embodiments of the Inside of Part D model the clearinghouse can require all in network pharmaceutical providers i.e. those registered with the clearinghouse to provide sufficient funding to cover all patients i.e. the clearinghouse will always fully clear. There can be unforeseen situations in which for one reason or another a pharmaceutical provider is unable to meet its full financial commitment. In those situations its brand s share of the patients could be proportionally reduced the clearinghouse will not fully clear and there will be a waiting list.

In various embodiments of the Outside of Part D model the clearinghouse can require all in network pharmaceutical providers i.e. those registered with the clearinghouse to provide funding up to a limit of their own choosing. Subsidies for the pharmaceutical providers respective brands can be disbursed up to the limit after which point patient requests can be either turned down or held in a waiting list.

Some of the issues with the current institutional models that can be addressed by the illustrative embodiment of a clearinghouse include 

More robust compliance with the OIG intent In various embodiments the pharmaceutical providers have no direct transactional relationship with the in network FNA Agents or institutions unless directed or managed by or through the clearinghouse. Further the pharmaceutical provider should be indifferent as to which FNA Agent or institution actually disburses the subsidies to the patients so long as the FNA Agent s administrative charges are competitive. The FNA Agent in turn should be indifferent as to the source from which clearinghouse secures its subsidies since all approved patients are provided the requested assistance to the point such subsidy is available. The pharmaceutical providers and institutions have no way to link contract negotiations on which pharmaceuticals are to be on an institution s formulary with the award of subsidies to patients.

Further given the preferred standardization of application processing the clearinghouse models and better comply with OIG s desire for a reasonable verifiable and uniform process for assessing patient financial need.

Economic context that supports increasing funding from providers In various embodiments the clearinghouse models and eliminate the ability of pharmaceutical providers e.g. drug manufacturers to game individual FNA Agents and ensure that all in network pharmaceutical providers share the burden of non participating pharmaceutical providers evenly. Hence the participating pharmaceutical providers are assured that they are in effect providing their drugs to the underinsured patients at a discount and not a loss.

Better patient experience In various embodiments the FNA Agents in effect will compete for the patients primarily by reaching them first creating awareness of their programs and providing excellent service and hand holding. Further the patients will need to apply to only one FNA Agent and deal with a single eligibility criteria. Since the system creates a context that encourages pharmaceutical providers to increase funding fewer patients will need to wait in queues and delay their therapies.

Resource efficiency In various embodiments the clearinghouse will help to reduce waste by eliminating the need for multiple FNA Agents to process the same patient applications. Assuming the average patient applies to three 3 FNA Agents this will cut down the system wide application processing workload by two thirds.

Audit of patient applications In various embodiments to ensure that the FNA Agents are applying a uniform and fair standard to every patient application the clearinghouse could audit patient applications for example following statistical random sampling methodology. FNA Agents with a poor record of compliance can be sanctioned in a number of ways including as possible examples such control methods as requiring staff to undergo re training imposing fines and or ultimately removal from the network.

Inform Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS COB i.e. Coordination of Benefits of financial assistance In various embodiments the clearinghouse can transmit to the pharmaceutical providers information indicating the subsidy approved for the participating FNA Agent patients. For example the clearinghouse could transmit a single file daily of all cash assistance approved for the participating FNA Agent patients. This will make communication of the benefits to plans easier for CMS.

Allow pharmaceutical providers to contribute in cash or in kind In various embodiments the pharmaceutical providers can provide patients who have been prescribed their drug with free drug up to the value of the approved assistance level. The in network pharmaceutical provider can still be required to provide cash assistance to patients prescribed brands of other non participating pharmaceutical providers. In the example of Brand Z can supply its 400 patients with in effect 1.6M in free drug. However it must still pay the balance 600 000 in cash to meet its clearinghouse commitment of 2.2M and support low cost Brand Y which does not participate in the network. Since the FNA Agents can award assistance to patients without regard to the brand prescribed and all FNA Agents can provide the free drug this does not create any kind of tie in. It does improve the ability of pharmaceutical provider to use its funds more efficiently since free drug distribution usually avoids royalty payments which for many drugs can be equal to the costs of goods sold.

The product distribution to the patients could be contracted by the clearinghouse with potentially third party vendors D3PWs that could take shipment orders directly from any of the network FNA Agents or institutions under the control direction or supervision of the clearinghouse per such agreement. In the case of free pharmaceuticals e.g. drugs the D3PWs could distribute the pharmaceuticals from their own inventory. Further in other embodiments even pharmaceuticals of non participating pharmaceutical providers could be provided as free pharmaceuticals from inventories of the institutions and or D3PWs and funded by the excess funds contributed by participating pharmaceutical providers. These non participating pharmaceutical providers drugs could be purchased from the D3PWs.

Allow low cost generic drug manufacturers to not subsidize high cost branded drugs In various embodiments to encourage low cost and generic drug manufacturers to participate in programs for the under insured the clearinghouse can require that a given pharmaceutical provider needs to only subsidize its own drug and any that are no more than 20 more expensive for example. Hence generic drug manufacturers that sell their brands at substantial discounts do not need to contribute funds towards higher priced brands even when the physician prescribes those to the patient. This will remove a key barrier from their willingness to contribute to the system. This is illustrated in the revised scenario in where the low cost Brand Y only pays its own share of the funding plus that of other non participating lower cost drugs if there were any and the burden of supporting premium priced Brand Z falls entirely on Brand X.

In step FNA Agents form relationships with institutional PAPs. The FNA Agents institutions and pharmaceutical providers register with the clearinghouse which could be considered to form a network of FNA Agents a network of pharmaceutical providers or a network comprising the FNA Agents the clearinghouse and the pharmaceutical providers. In step an FNA Agent that has received a patient s request for a drug or subsidy which may have been forwarded by the institutional PAP that the FNA Agent represents. The FNA Agent forwards the patient request to the clearinghouse. In step the clearinghouse determines whether or not a registered pharmaceutical provider provides the requested drug. If a registered pharmaceutical provider does provide the drug then the process continues to step where the clearinghouse obtains in kind drug from the pharmaceutical provider or could obtain cash to buy the drug or could obtain a combination of the foregoing all as forms of a subsidy.

If the drug is not provided by an in network pharmaceutical provider then the process continues to step where the clearinghouse determines the necessary payments to be obtained from the in network pharmaceutical providers to purchase the drug from the appropriate out of network pharmaceutical provider or otherwise on the open market. In some embodiments if an in network pharmaceutical provider is a low cost provider e.g. a generic drug company of a similar drug for the same disease state and if the cost of the requested drug is above a threshold amount relative to the cost of the low cost pharmaceutical provider s drug e.g. 20 more expensive then the low cost provider need not be required to contribute anything or possibly a reduced amount to the cost of the requested high cost drug. Regardless the clearinghouse obtains the payments from in network pharmaceutical providers in step . In step the clearinghouse provides or otherwise directs the subsidy whether in kind drug cash or a combination thereof to the FNA Agent to fulfill the patient s request.

In other embodiments of the method of a D3PW can be included e.g. perhaps under an agreement with the clearinghouse. The D3PW can be used to provide the requested drug even if it is offered by a participating pharmaceutical provider. In such a case the appropriate pharmaceutical provider can be required to replenish the D3PW s used stock. The D3PW can also be used to provide drugs of non participating pharmaceutical providers wherein payment for such drugs comes from at least some of the participating pharmaceutical providers e.g. via clearinghouse .

In this embodiment block diagram shows a set of FNA Agents F F N that can register with clearinghouse system on behalf of institutions I I N for example. Note N need not be the same in both cases. FNA Agents could thus become in network FNA Agents. A set of pharmaceutical providers P P M can also register with clearinghouse system and become in network pharmaceutical providers. The in network FNA Agents and the in network pharmaceutical providers can interact with clearinghouse system over any of a variety of types of wired or wireless networks or combinations thereof collectively represented as network cloud . The networks may include the Internet World Wide Web local area networks wide area networks virtual private networks or the like and any combination thereof. At least one D3PW can optionally be included as a source for disbursement of pharmaceuticals under the guidance control supervision and or direction of clearinghouse system .

In various embodiments clearinghouse system may be implemented as a set of functional modules that can be implemented in hardware software firmware or some combination thereof. In this embodiment an FNA Agent interface facilitates interaction between the FNA Agents and clearinghouse system and can implement a set of login or security functionality for secure access by the registered FNA Agents . FNA Agent interface also allows the submission of patient requests e.g. approved applications for a subsidy. The subsidy can be cash in kind drugs or a combination thereof as examples. This may depend on whether of not the clearinghouse system is operating Inside Part D or Outside Part D. An intake processor accesses a system database that includes information about the in network FNA Agents and determines if the requesting FNA Agent is indeed registered as an in network FNA Agent. If the FNA Agent is not a participating FNA Agent then the intake processor can reject the request for a subsidy.

If the requesting FNA Agent is an in network FNA Agent i.e. a registered with clearinghouse then the intake processor tasks a provider processor to determine the pharmaceutical provider that offers the requested drug this can require checking a database that includes a list of in network pharmaceutical providers to see if one of them is the maker of the requested drug and or accessing external databases and systems not shown . The intake processor then passes the request to a subsidy processor along with an indication of the pharmaceutical provider of the requested drug whether in network or out of network.

If the requested drug is provided by an in network pharmaceutical provider then a pharma subsidy requester prepares a request to the specific pharmaceutical provider to provide the subsidy. The subsidy processor or pharma subsidy requester can determine or obtain the market value of that in kind drug subsidy. However if the requested drug is not provided by an in network pharmaceutical provider then the subsidy requester determines the cost of the requested drug which can be obtained from external sources and determines the amount of cash contribution or subsidy due from each in network pharmaceutical provider to procure the requested drug. The pharama subsidy requester can also be configured to task the in network pharmaceutical providers to contribute their respective portions of the subsidy whether cash in kind drug or a combination thereof. The pharama subsidy requester can interact with the providers via a pharmaceutical provider interface and network .

If the clearinghouse system includes use of one or more D3PW then a DP3W interface module can be included. Via D3PW interface D3PW can be requested to supply the requested drug. If the drug is offered by an in network pharmaceutical provider then that pharmaceutical provider may be tasked to replenish the supply of the D3PW. In the requested drug is not provided by an in network pharmaceutical provider then D3PW may still be tasked to provide the drug with payment ultimately by one of more of the in network pharmaceutical providers as determined by clearinghouse system .

Similarly institutions could supply the drug from their bulk stock with replenishment or payment as described above with respect to the D3PW. Accordingly clearinghouse system can also include an institution interface for communicating with institutions for such purposes or for other administrative purposes such as for managing and verifying information related to at least one of the FNA Agents institutions and PAPs patients and disbursements as examples. Of course the FNA Agents and institutions can and presumably will in most embodiments also communicate either via the clearinghouse system or directly with each other or both.

A subsidy accounting module can be provided that stores and tracks the required subsidies to be made by each of the in network providers and can track which of the FNA Agents received which subsidies. The subsidy accounting module can also track the subsidies to each patient. It could also track the subsidies of each patient and the disbursements of the D3PWs or institutions if any. This information can be stored in accounting database . The subsidy accounting processor can also track subsidy payments from the in network pharmaceutical providers against the amount they owe. The subsidy accounting processor can also determine the totals and relative percentages of subsidies allocated to each in network pharmaceutical provider and perform the tasks and calculations described with respect to above.

The clearinghouse system can include modules for allowing or enabling on line or electronic submission of patient requests by FNA Agents through a browser based interface as an example. Similarly a browser based interface can be provided for the in network pharmaceutical providers which can allow insight into financial information related to their subsidies such as totals and percentage relative to all other in network pharmaceutical providers. Clearinghouse system can also include electronic payment of funds or electronic funds transfer functionality for enabling quick and efficient payment of subsidies by the in network pharmaceutical providers this could be implemented as part of subsidy accounting module . All of this could be implemented relative to specific disease states or more generally.

The platforms used to host the above functional modules can be typically available personal computers workstations laptops servers and the like. The system could be accessible by any of a variety of wired or wireless devices or a combination thereof including but not limited to personal digital assistants and cellular telephones. The communications equipment paths interfaces and protocols can be any appropriate in the prior art so not discussed in detail herein.

In various embodiments the clearinghouse can be implemented to provide all or some subsidies as free drug as noted above. In the case of providing free drug the clearinghouse can facilitate the acquisition on the open market of a drug offered by a non participating pharmaceutical provider with the cash subsidies provided by the in network pharmaceutical providers. In some embodiments a portion e.g. 25 of the drugs of the in network providers can also be acquired on the open market for purposes of for example establishing a price threshold for TrOOP valuations. The methods and systems described herein can also be adapted to use part cash and part drug for all pharmaceutical providers. And in network pharmaceutical providers could be given the option of donating their drug when requested or donating a cash subsidy.

For lower cost drugs the clearinghouse can work in a modified manner. For example eligible patients can be provided universal coupons that can be applied against their drug costs and co pays. The coupon will be valid for any drug in a given disease state. Disbursement agents can qualify patients using uniform criteria. The cost of couponing can be shared by in network pharmaceutical providers e.g. using the pro rata share methodology including the funding burden for out of network pharmaceutical providers.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. For example while the embodiments focus on pharmaceuticals it could be implemented for any of a variety of patient therapies. As used herein the terms includes and including mean without limitation. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the inventive concepts.

