---

title: Transparent, reinforced, composite fiber and articles made therefrom
abstract: A transparent, reinforced, composite polymeric fiber that has a polymeric body portion made from a first thermoplastic polymer that is transparent to visible light. The fiber includes polymeric reinforcement elements embedded within the polymeric body portion. The polymeric body portion extends between and about the polymeric reinforcement elements. Each polymeric reinforcement element is formed from a second thermoplastic polymer that is transparent to visible light. The peripheral portion and outer surface of the polymeric body portion defines a peripheral portion and outer surface, respectively, of the transparent, reinforced, composite polymeric fiber. A plurality of the fibers are formed into an array that is processed with a consolidation process to form a transparent, reinforced, composite structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08323436&OS=08323436&RS=08323436
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08323436
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070328
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention generally relates to transparent multi component reinforced composite fibers that can be used to fabricate transparent reinforced composite articles such as lenses windows etc.

A common prior art technique of creating lightweight transparent articles such as windows and lenses involves forming a transparent polymer into the desired shape and size of the finished article using processing methods well known to the plastics industry. These processing methods include extrusion injection molding of thermoplastic polymers and casting reactive pre polymer mixtures into molds and subsequent curing into polymers. The aforesaid processing methods result in transparent materials that exhibit the same bulk mechanical properties and performance of the polymer used to make them. Higher performance transparent polymer windows or lenses have been produced by laminating layers of different polymer films together including laminations of films that have been stretched in one or two dimensions in order to increase the mechanical properties of the polymers being used and thus increase the mechanical properties of the finished article. The disadvantages of these prior art approaches include limitations to the mechanical properties that can be attained using un oriented polymers i.e. extruded injection molded cast etc. and the limitations to the mechanical properties that can be attained in drawn polymer films. Another prior art technique for creating reinforced transparent articles entails using a glass particle or glass fiber reinforcing element in a polymer matrix wherein the glass and polymer are chosen to have identical or nearly identical indices of refraction to avoid scattering of light passing through the material. One disadvantage of using glass particles or glass fibers as reinforcement elements is the greater density of glass relative to polymers typically two or three times greater which results in a significantly heavier part when compared to the weight of a pure polymer article. Additional disadvantages of the aforementioned glass reinforced approach to manufacturing transparent reinforced polymer articles are the difficulty in matching refractive indices of the various components and the large difference in coefficients in thermal expansion CTE between glasses and polymers that can result in development of significant internal stresses in articles as the temperature changes. Another prior art technique to making reinforced transparent items is to use glass or ceramic as both the matrix and reinforcing filler. These glass glass and glass ceramic composites have significantly higher density than composites based on polymers resulting in heavier finished articles.

What is needed is a new and improved transparent reinforced composite that addresses the problems and disadvantages of the aforesaid prior art techniques.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved transparent reinforced composite fiber that can be used to fabricate transparent reinforced composite articles such as windows lenses and other transparent objects.

It is another object of the present invention that the transparent reinforced composite fiber be comprised of a transparent continuous fiber reinforced polymer composite in which the reinforcing fiber is a transparent polymer.

It is a further object of the present invention that the transparent reinforced composite fiber and articles made therefrom have a density that is relatively lower than the density of prior art transparent reinforced composites.

It is yet another object of the present invention that the transparent reinforced composite fiber be capable of being manufactured at reasonable costs.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the ensuing description and the accompanying drawings.

Thus in one aspect the present invention is directed to a transparent reinforced composite polymeric fiber comprising a transparent polymeric body portion having a peripheral portion that defines an outer surface and transparent polymeric reinforcement elements embedded within the polymeric body portion such that the polymeric body portion extends between and about the polymeric reinforcement elements. The peripheral portion and outer surface of the polymeric body portion define the peripheral portion and outer surface respectively of the transparent reinforced composite polymeric fiber.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to a transparent multi component reinforced composite polymeric fiber. The fiber has a polymeric body portion made from a first thermoplastic polymer that is transparent to visible light. The polymeric body portion has a peripheral portion that defines an outer surface. The fiber includes polymeric reinforcement elements embedded within the polymeric body portion such that the polymeric body portion extends between and about the polymeric reinforcement elements. Each polymeric reinforcement element is made from a second thermoplastic polymer that is transparent to visible light. The number of reinforcing elements in each fiber can vary from one to over one thousand. The peripheral portion and outer surface of the polymeric body portion defines the peripheral portion and outer surface respectively of the transparent reinforced multi component composite polymeric fiber. A plurality of the fibers are formed into an array which is then subjected to a consolidation process so as to form a transparent reinforced composite structure. The transparent reinforced composite structure is then further processed to create articles such as windows lenses protective eye wear and glazing for vehicles aircraft and marine craft.

In a further aspect the present invention is directed to a method for making a transparent reinforced composite structure comprising the steps of providing a plurality of transparent reinforced composite polymeric fibers wherein each fiber comprises a polymeric body portion having a peripheral portion that defines an outer surface and polymeric reinforcement elements embedded within the polymeric body portion such that the polymeric body portion extends between and about the polymeric reinforcement elements. The peripheral portion and outer surface of the polymeric body portion defines the peripheral portion and outer surface respectively of the transparent reinforced composite polymeric fiber. The method further includes the steps of arranging the plurality of fibers into an array and applying heat and pressure to the array to consolidate the array into a transparent reinforced composite structure. The transparent reinforced composite structure has a peripheral region and outer surface that is formed by the first polymer.

Referring to there is shown transparent reinforced composite fiber of the present invention. Fiber comprises polymer and fibrous polymeric reinforcement elements . In accordance with the invention polymer and fibrous polymeric reinforcement elements are thermoplastic polymers that are transparent to visible light and can be processed into multi component fibers using methods known in the polymer fiber industry. In a preferred embodiment the aforesaid thermoplastic polymers are chosen from the group consisting of organic semi organic and inorganic polymers. Thus these aforesaid thermoplastic polymers include but are not limited to polyolefin poly cyclo olefin polyamide polycarbonate acrylic vinyl polystyrene polyurethane polyimide etc. Polymer has a peripheral portion that circumferentially extends about polymer and defines outer surface .

In accordance with the invention polymer has a glass transition temperature and or melting temperature that is relatively lower than the glass transition temperature and or melting temperature of each fibrous polymeric reinforcement elements . Polymer and fibrous polymeric reinforcement elements are spun and highly drawn to maximize mechanical strength in the fiber direction and arranged so that peripheral portion and outer surface of polymer forms the peripheral portion and outer surface respectively of fiber . Such a configuration facilitates the consolidation process without disrupting the polymer chain orientation and mechanical properties of fibrous polymeric reinforcement elements in the finished article or product e.g. window lenses etc.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the size of each fibrous polymeric reinforcement element is very small in one dimension. Specifically the size of each fibrous polymeric reinforcement element in one dimension is relatively smaller than the wavelengths of visible light e.g. 350 700 nanometers so that the passage of visible light through the composite fiber and the finished article or product is unimpeded even if the refractive indices of polymer and the polymer of the reinforcement element are different.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the refractive index of the fibrous polymeric reinforcement element is identical to or nearly identical to the refractive index of the polymer so that the passage of visible light is unimpeded through the composite fiber and the finished article or product e.g. windows lenses etc.

The content of polymer and the polymer used to form fibrous polymeric reinforcement elements may be varied from about 10 to about 90 of the total content of the composite fiber and the selection of different polymer compositions can be used to tailor the physical and mechanical properties of the final transparent article.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention a transparent polymer reinforced composite article or product e.g. windows lenses etc. is formed by applying a consolidation process to a plurality of fibers . The first step in creating a transparent reinforced composite structure in accordance with this method is to form array of fibers as shown in . Next array is subjected to heat and pressure so as to yield a transparent reinforced composite structure which is shown in . As shown in polymer forms the outer surfaces and periphery of structure as well as the portions of structure that are between reinforcement elements . A variety of known techniques can be used to produce the heat and pressure needed to consolidate array into transparent reinforced composite structure . The required pressure can be applied using known methods such as vacuum bagging. An autoclave or hydraulic press can also be used to provide the required pressure. The required heating can be accomplished with several known methods including heated press platens conduction convection microwave heating radio frequency heating inductive heating radiant heating or resistive heating. Some of these known heating methods may require specific modifications to the material composition of array . For example such modifications may consist of the addition of susceptor molecules or electrically conductive components to the polymers to absorb microwave radiation.

Fiber allows for the fabrication of light weight low density transparent fiber reinforced composite polymeric or plastic articles that have improved mechanical strength improved impact resistance and improved toughness in comparison to prior art un reinforced transparent polymers or plastics. Such articles include windows lenses glazing eyeglasses protective goggles face shields aircraft canopies and windshields and specialty glazing for vehicles aircraft and marine craft. Furthermore the mechanical properties in finished articles fabricated with fiber are significantly improved in comparison to transparent articles made from laminated polymer films. This is because the mechanical properties attained in a spun and drawn polymer fiber as described in the foregoing description are superior to the mechanical properties obtained with polymer films. Additionally transparent articles made from fibers are less dense than prior art transparent articles that use glass particles or glass fibers for reinforcement since glass is denser than polymers. Thus transparent articles made from fibers are lighter in weight in comparison to articles that use glass particles or glass fibers as reinforcement elements. The transparent articles made from fibers are also superior to prior art glass reinforced polymer or ceramic reinforced polymer systems because each fiber does not exhibit large differentials in the coefficients of thermal expansion of the polymers in fiber which typically cause large internal stresses as a result of temperature changes.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is neither intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

