---

title: Content management system and method for managing and classifying data about entities and for providing content including the classified data
abstract: A content management system manages data about entities and provides content including data about the entities. The content management system receives data about entities from originators associated with the entities. The content management system classifies the data and stores the classified data. The content management system may authenticate the data by determining an authenticator of the classified data. The authenticator may be the most appropriate person to authenticate the data. The content management system may determine an authenticator by determining the entity most related to the classified data and determining an originator representing or designated to authenticate the information. As such, the content management system may determine the originator in the best position to authenticate the data. The content management system may also receive a request from subscribers for content and create the content in response to the request. The data included in the content may be based on one of: the request from the at least one subscriber, a preference of the at least one subscriber, the at least one subscribers' relationship with the classified data, and authentication of the classified data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688710&OS=08688710&RS=08688710
owner: 
number: 08688710
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070201
---
In the information based society of today the Internet enables users to access an abundance of information from around the world. Users easily can find useful information pertinent to their needs however users are not always certain whether the information found on the Internet is accurate or even complete. This problem is particularly problematic in the music industry which in recent years has begun to increasingly utilize the Internet as a means to gain greater consumer exposure.

A common problem among artists consumers record labels and other entities associated with the music industry is lack of clear and efficient communication. With the advent of online music sites and social networking sites information that is exchanged between artists and consumers has dramatically increased. Yet the surge of communication facilitated by these sites has exacerbated the problems caused by lack of communication. Misinformation or incomplete information rampantly pervades the Internet. Consumers cannot be certain that the information they look up on the Internet is accurate or complete and artists cannot be certain that the information they release is being accurately and completely accessed by the public.

Moreover artists labels and venues are often being promoted on multiple sites. Coordinating information among these entities often involves endless emailing and faxing of information back and forth and then manually updating each independent site. Information can get misinterpreted or overlooked in this flurried exchange. While this problem is particularly troublesome in the music industry it illustrates a greater problem typical to any scenario where information about entities is exchanged or promoted. Thus there is a need for a system which provides industry entities a better way to manage information in a centralized and collaborative manner to ensure that information can be easily exchanged and accessed and that information is accurately and completely represented to the public.

An embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a method for managing entity related data in a content management system. The method comprises allowing access to the content management system to a plurality of originators receiving data about at least one entity from at least one originator classifying the received data based on the relationship of the at least one originator to the at least one entity and storing the classified data in the content management system.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a method for providing content regarding an entity in a content management system. The method comprises receiving a request for content from at least one subscriber and creating content comprising data classified based on relationships of originators of the data to entities related to the data. The content is determined based on at least one of the request from the at least one subscriber a preference of the at least one subscriber the at least one subscribers relationship with the classified data and authentication of the classified data. The method also comprises providing the content to the subscriber.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product encoded with program code for supporting a content management system. The product comprises program code for allowing access to the content management system to a plurality of originators program code for receiving data about at least one entity from at least one originator program code for classifying the received data based on the relationship of the at least one originator to the at least one entity and program code for storing the classified data in the content management system.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product for providing content regarding an entity in a content management system. The computer program product comprises program code for receiving a request for content from at least one subscriber and program code for creating content comprising data classified based on relationships of originators of the data to entities related to the data. The content is determined based on at least one of the request from the at least one subscriber a preference of the at least one subscriber the at least one subscribers relationship with the classified data and authentication of the classified data. The computer program product also comprises program code for providing the content to the subscriber.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a computer capable of supporting a content management system. The computer comprises a processor configured to execute a content management application to allow access to the content management system to a plurality of originators receive data about at least one entity from at least one originator classify the received data based on the relationship of the at least one originator to the at least one entity and store the classified data in the content management system. The computer also comprises a memory coupled to the processor for storing the content management application and the classified data.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a computer capable of supporting a content management system. The computer comprises a processor configured to execute a content management application to receive a request for content from at least one subscriber create content comprising data classified based on relationships of originators of the data to entities related to the data wherein the content is determined based on at least one of the request from the at least one subscriber a preference of the at least one subscriber the at least one subscribers relationship with the classified data and authentication of the classified data and provide the content to the subscriber. The computer also comprises a memory coupled to the processor for storing the content management application and the classified data.

Additional embodiments of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the embodiments. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure a content management system manages data about entities and provides content including data about the entities. The content management system receives data about entities from originators associated with the entities. The content management system classifies the data and stores the classified data.

The content management system may authenticate the data by determining an authenticator of the classified data. The authenticator may be the most appropriate person to authenticate the data. The content management system may determine an authenticator by determining the entity most related to the classified data and determining an originator representing or designated to authenticate the information. As such the content management system may determine the originator in the best position to authenticate the data.

The content management system may also receive a request from subscribers for content and create the content in response to the request. The data included in the content may be based on one of the request from the at least one subscriber a preference of the at least one subscriber the at least one subscribers relationship with the classified data and authentication of the classified data.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure an example of which is illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part thereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. The following description is therefore merely exemplary.

Host serves as a platform for the content management system. Host stores manages and provides access to the content management system. In general host is essentially a website host and content management application that stores manages authenticates and publishes information shared by originators and subscribers . Host may be configured to host a content management system similar in fashion to other known content management systems coupled to a website host and database. In addition host may provide various application programming interfaces. Further host may create and provide content including data in the content management system to subscribers .

Host may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example host may be implemented as a website running on one or more servers that support various application programs and stored procedures.

Originators provide an interface for accessing the content management system maintained by host . Originators may provide data about entities and authenticate entity data in the content management system hosted by host . Originators may be any type of person or thing capable of interacting with the content management system hosted by host or a person or thing that the content management system hosted by host may simply access or receive information from. For example originators may be a person company corporation government data feed website and the like.

Subscribers provide an interface for accessing data in the content management system hosted by host . Subscribers may request the content management system to create and provide custom content. Subscriber may be any type of person or thing capable of interacting with or otherwise accessing the content management system hosted by host . For example subscribers may be a person company corporation government data feed website and the like.

Originators and subscriber may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example originators and subscriber may be implemented on a personal computer workstation or terminal. In addition originators and subscriber may run under an operating system such as the LINUX operating system the MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating system and the like. Originators and subscriber may also operate through an Internet browser application such as FIREFOX by Mozilla INTERNET EXPLORER by Microsoft Corporation or NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR by Netscape Communications Corporation.

One skilled in the art will also recognize that originators and subscriber may be implemented with various peripheral devices such as a display one or more speakers and other suitable devices. Originators and subscriber may also be implemented with various peripherals for accepting input such as a keyboard a mouse and the like.

Although shows several originators and subscribers system may include any number of originators and subscribers . Further one skilled in the art will realize that originator may also be a subscriber and vice versa.

The components of system may be coupled together via network . Network may comprise one or more networks such as a local area network the Internet or other type of wide area network. In addition network may support a wide variety of known protocols such as the transport control protocol and Internet protocol TCP IP and hypertext transport protocol HTTP .

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in host . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include the Linux operating system the UNIX operating system operating systems by MICROSOFT and any type of open source operating system. For example OS may be a variant of BSD. In addition OS may operate in conjunction with other software such as an application server to implement various features of host .

Web server provides interface access and communication to the content management system. Web server may be implemented using any well known technologies. For example web server may be implemented using Apache mod perl server architecture. Communications may be based on well known protocols and programming languages such as HTTP TCP IP and Java. Interfaces provided by web server may be implemented using well known Internet technologies such as web pages which are well known to those skilled in the art. Web server may also provide secure communications with the content management system using well known cryptographic techniques.

Content management engine provides the logic for analyzing and managing the operations of host . As previously noted content management engine may be written in a variety of programming languages such as C C Java etc.

For example one responsibility of content management engine may be managing data received from originators . Content management engine may receive data from originators classify the data and store the classified data in database . Additionally content management engine may authenticate the data received from originators . Content management engine may also create content and provide the content to subscribers .

Database maintains data within the content management system. Database may be implemented using well known database technology such as relational databases or object oriented databases. For example database may be implemented in PostgreSQL.

For example database may include information indicating one or more operating systems and applications installed on originators and subscribers as well as access account information for originators and subscribers . Database may also comprise information related to authenticating an originators and subscribers and determining the respective rights relative to one another. Other information that may be included in database may comprise information such as system and individual permissions of originators .

Database may include data structures for storing data received from originators . Database may also include data structures to cross reference related data received from originators . Database may further include information that indicates the permissions and delivery of the content to subscribers . Other information that may be included in database may comprise information such as system and individual permissions of originators .

Furthermore database may include other information related to the manner in which host communicates with originators and subscribers . For example this information may relate to periodicity of notifications email addresses format of the information and the like. Database may include data structures to log the activities and transactions of its users. Activities such as recent links history of operations etc. that may be logged in database are well known to those skilled in the art.

As mentioned above a content management system hosted by host receives classifies manages stores and authenticates data from multiple originators about multiple entities. is a flow diagram illustrating a method in which the content management system hosted by host manages data from originators .

Method begins with host allowing access to the content management system to originators stage . Host may allow access to the content management system by establishing access accounts for originators . The access accounts may include a login name and password. Host may protect the access account using well known cryptographic methods.

Host may also associate an originators access based on that particular originator relationship with one or more entities. Entities are abstract constructs in the content management system to define the subject matter of data in the content management system.

For example if host hosted a content management system for television entertainment industry exemplary entities may be television networks television shows production companies directors actors and the like. Originators related to the different entities would be persons or bodies designated by the entities or content management system to enter data about he entities. For example a web site manager may be designated by a television network to enter data about the television network.

Next host receives data about an entity from an originator stage . Host may receive data from an originator through a website hosted by host . For example originator may send the data to host by logging on to the content management system through a website using its access account. In order to protect the integrity of the data host may receive the data through a secure connection such as secure socket layer SSL .

Data received by host may be any type of data about an entity. For example in a television entertainment setting data received by host may include network lineup network information director information actor biographical information digital versions of television shows and the like.

After receiving the data host classifies the received data from the originator stage . Host may classify the received data based on attributes of the data and attributes of originator . Attributes of the data may be data received time received size of data type of data and the like. Attributes of originator may be access account of the originator relationship to the entity and the like.

Then host stores the classified data in the content management system stage . Host may store the classified data in a database such as database illustrated in . Host may store a copy of the classified data. Additionally host may determine if an additional copy of the classified data exists. If so host may store a reference to the additional copy.

Host may store metadata in addition to the classified data. The metadata may include origins of the classified data and authentication information of the classified data. For example the metadata may include information such as time date of reception size of data type of data access account of originator relationship of originator to entity and the like.

After data has been received classified and stored the content management system hosted by host allows classified data received from originators to be authenticated. By authenticating the data originators may insure that data in the content management system is accurate and complete. Further subscribers requesting data from the content management system may rely on the data as being accurate.

Host may authenticate the data by determining an authenticator of the classified data. The authenticator may be the most appropriate person to authenticate the data. Host may determine an authenticator by determining the entity most related to the classified data and determining an originator representing or designated to authenticate the information. As such host may determine the originator in the best position to authenticate the data. is a flow chart illustrating a method for authenticating data received from originators .

Method begins with host determining an authenticator of the classified data received from an originator stage . The authenticator may be any originator capable of verifying the classified data. The authenticator may be the particular originator who sent the classified data. Additionally the authenticator may be a different originator.

To determine an authenticator host may determine entities related to the classified data. Typically the entity related to the data would be an entity about which the data primarily concerns. For example in television entertainment if host received data about a network s television lineup host would determine that the television network was primarily related to the data.

Next host may determine originators related to the determined entities and designated to authenticate the classified data. These originators may be designated by the entity or designated and verified by the content management system. Then host may select the determined originators as authenticators of the classified data.

If host determines that the authenticator is the particular originator that sent the data host may consider the data as self authenticated stage . As such host authentication is not required and the authentication ends.

If the authenticator is not the particular originator that sent the data host notifies the determined authenticator. Host notifies the authenticator that classified data has been received which requires verification stage . Host may notify the authenticator the next time the authenticator accesses the content management system. Further host may immediately notify the authenticator by transmitting notification to the authenticator.

Next host receives verification from the authenticator stage . The verification may be an acceptance or rejection of the classified data as being accurate or correct. The verification may also be an acceptance of the classified data as a duplicate of previously authenticated data.

Then host stores the received verification stage . Host may store the information with the classified data. Host may store the verification in a database such as database illustrated in .

In method if host determines that the authenticator is the particular originator that sent the data the data is immediately authenticated. Otherwise host may indicate that the classified data is denied or pending authentication until verification is received from an authenticator.

As mentioned above the content management system hosted by host may also provide content to subscribers . Host may create and provide the content based on a request from subscribers . Host may include classified data in the content based on one of the request from the at least one subscriber a preference of the at least one subscriber the at least one subscribers relationship with the classified data and authentication of the classified data. is a flow chart illustrating a method for providing content to subscribers.

Method begins with host receiving a request for content stage . The request may be a request for a single instance of content. Additionally the request may be a request for continuing content. The request may include information about the subscriber and information about data to be included in the content.

Next host creates the content stage . Host may base the data included in the content on the request from the at least one subscriber a preference of the at least one subscriber the at least one subscribers relationship with the classified data and authentication of the classified data.

Then host provides the content to subscribers stage . Host may provide a copy of the content to subscribers . Likewise host may provide a reference to the content. For example host may provide subscriber with Java script or html code.

The content management system described above may manage any type of data received from multiple originators. are diagrams illustrating host hosting an exemplary content management system for the music industry setting . One skilled in the art will realize that are exemplary and that the content management system hosted by host may store any type of data.

As illustrated in music industry setting includes a content management system entities working through originators and subscribers . Content management system includes data which may be classified in categories relevant to the music industry. Content management system may be implemented in a system described above with content management system being hosted by a host .

In setting the originators may simply be a person business website data service and the like that is designated to enter information into the system on the behalf of an entity . The originator may be authorized by entity or authorized and verified by content management system . In content management system entities may be considered abstract ideas. As such content management system may allow multiple levels of permission relations and organization.

Content management system allows originators for entities such as bands labels booking agents PR firms and venues to work together more efficiently. Content management system hosted on a host may provide web based tools to achieve the collaboration between originators. Content management system provides a central workspace that allows originators to collaboratively enter and approve data quickly and simply. Content management system may then categorize standardize format and syndicate the data across entities websites and third party ies websites.

Content management system may allow originators to enter data for entities and give subscribers the opportunity to create custom information feeds with different isolation or filter levels. For example an originator working through an artist may configure an information feed to allow for the inclusion of information entered by a related record label without the approval of that information by an originator primarily associated with the artist. This example information feed can then be used to syndicate the information such as displaying information directly on the artists website. The originator working through the artist may additionally configure the information feed so that only certain types of information are handled in this manner such as allowing for the inclusion of information provided by the label only if that information is categorized as biographic information or release dates and requiring approval of an originator primarily connected with the artist for other information provided by the label. This functionality may prove incredibly useful in situations such as a large record label which must have the approval of their legal department for any content that appears on their website isolation and filter levels ensure that only relevant information cleared by the corporation will appear on their websites.

As illustrated in content management system allows originators related to entities to collaborate and validate data. Content management system achieves this collaboration by allowing access to originators receiving data about entities from the originators classifying the data and storing the classified data in the content management system . Content management system receives data from the originators associated with entities . In order to enter information the originators are granted a relation to one or more entities .

For example entity defined as artist may define the band U2. In such a case content management system may establish an

For this example each entity and may have one or more originators associated. Further each originator may have a role relation to an entity. For example content management system may allow access to the following

In content management system data is classified based on the originators relation to the entity. For example if content management system receives data about a new U2 show from Bono content management system may classify the data as follows 

If content management system receives data from John Smith about a new video the content management system may classify the data as follows 

As illustrated in content management system may also authenticate or validate the data received from originators. The authentication is based upon an entity s relationship with the data and the originators relationship with entity.

As there is an overlap of concerns between the interests of the entities these originators represent and certain categories of the artist record content management system may classify the overlapping content as relevant to the artist record. Additionally originators need not be primarily associated to an entity with a same as relationship. For example information entered by John Smith may be correlated with the U2 record by the relationship between the label and the artist making the information appear as claimed from the perspective of U2 but authenticated from the perspective of the label. As such information entered by Jane Smith may appear as authenticated from both the perspectives of U2 and William Morris if Jane Smith were able to act as an authenticator for both entities.

Content management system may authenticate the data by determining an authenticator of the classified data. The authenticator may be the most appropriate person to authenticate the data. Content management system may determine an authenticator by determining the entity most related to the classified data and determining an originator representing or designated to authenticate the information. As such content management system may determine the originator in the best position to authenticate the data.

The authenticator may be any originator capable of verifying the classified data such as originators and . The authenticator may be the particular originator who sent the classified data. Additionally the authenticator may be a different originator.

To determine an authenticator content management system may determine entities related to the classified data. Typically the entity related to the data would be an entity about which the data primarily concerns.

Content management system may determine originators related to the determined entities and designated to authenticate the classified data. These originators may be designated by the entity or designated and verified by the content management system. Then content management system may select the determined originators as authenticators of the classified data.

If content management system determines that the authenticator is the particular originator that sent the data content management system may consider the data as self authenticated. As such content management system authentication is not required and the authentication ends.

For example content management system may receive data from originator regarding biographical information about U2. Content management system determines that U2 is the entity most related to the data and that originator is allowed to authenticate the data. As such content management system may determine the data to be self authenticated.

If the authenticator is not the particular originator that sent the data host notifies the determined authenticator. Content management system notifies the authenticator that classified data has been received which requires verification. Content management system may notify the authenticator the next time the authenticator accesses the content management system. Further content management system may immediately notify the authenticator by transmitting notification to the authenticator.

For example content management system may receive data from originator regarding biographical information about U2. Content management system determines that U2 is the entity most related to the data and that originator is not allowed to authenticate the data. As such content management system may notify originator that data has been received which needs to be verified. Content management system may then receive verification from originator who is the determined authenticator for U2. Content management system may mark the data as pending verification until verification is received. Content management system may additionally determine that this information is also primarily relevant to the record label Interscope Records which originator is allowed to authenticate data for. As such content management system would still allow for this information to be viewable as verified from the context of Interscope records though the use of information feeds with different isolation or filter levels as previously explained.

Content management system may allow an entity to choose additional originators to self authenticate certain categories of information. For example U2 through originator Bono may designate booking agent as an authenticator of biographic information. As such data received from originator Jane Smith concerning biographic information may be self authenticated. Further originator may authenticate this type of data. Content management system may also designate authenticator of data. The entity may choose and configure additional originators through the actions of originators vested with the appropriate permissions to do so by content management system .

Content management system may include multiple records concerning multiple entities. Content management system may allow the data in the multiple records to be cross referenced when the data is related. is a diagram illustrating two exemplary records contained in content management system . One skilled in the art will realize that is exemplary and that content management system may include any number and type of records.

As illustrated in content management system may include an artist record and a venue record . Originators venue staff person and venue manager may be associated with the entity venue for entering data and authenticating data.

When content management system receives data from originators and content management system determines if the data is related to any other entities. If so content management system may cross reference the data with the other entity. Content management system may also notify the other entity and may seek authentication from the other entity.

For example content management system may receive a U2 tour data from originator to be stored in venue record . Since the data is related to the artist entity U2 content management system may cross reference this information with artist record . Further if the tour date is primarily related to the artist entity U2 content management system may seek authentication from an originator associated with U2 such as originator Bono .

Returning to content management system may provide content to subscribers . All data stored in content management system is abstracted and categorized into standardized formats and specific topics stamped with entry attributes and made ready for syndication.

If host is hosting content management system host may provide the content by any well known web based protocol. For example host may provide content using protocols such as JS RSS xml json flash dhtml. Host may provide a copy of the content as requested or may provide a reference to the content. For example host may provide subscribers with a line of Java script html code or widgets that they copy paste into their own website. The code will serve content directly to the subscriber from host in a seamless fashion. Host may also serve the content directly for the subscriber by hosting a customized web page on behalf of the subscriber. As such subscribers may customize the look feel of the elements to seamlessly integrate with their own site or use default styles. Host may attach a small Content Provided by host message.

Subscribers may set an isolation level or filters in a request for content from content management system . These isolation levels and filters may be based on such parameters as data type originator of the data and authentication of the data such as verified or denied and the like. For example Interscope may enter a U2 record release. U2 may set the isolation level to allow Interscope updates to syndicate onto U2 feeds. The U2 website and fan feeds will automatically reflect this entry.

Alternatively Interscope may enter a U2 record release. U2 may set the isolation level set to not allow interscope updates to syndicate onto its own feeds. The U2 website and fan feeds will not contain this information unless U2 explicitly approves it.

In addition to processes described above content management system may allow originators and subscribes to enter data related to fans and consumers in the music industry setting. illustrates an exemplary process that may be performed by originators and subscribers related to fans and consumers. For example an originator or subscriber may enter and organize opinions about an artist search for information in content management system and receive other data entered by other originators and subscribers.

As mentioned above content management system may provide access through a web application. A C A B A B A B and are diagrams illustrating the various application interfaces in a web application providing access to the content management system.

As illustrated in this application management interface may also list a history of data entered into this system. The history may be indicated by the originator that entered the data the entities associated with the entity and any authentication of the data. Originators may edit data but any authentication previously received for that data would only correspond to the specific version of data that was authenticated requiring the new information to be authenticated as well. For example an originator can authenticate a concert date on behalf of U2 that was entered through an entity functioning as a supporting artist for that concert. The originator can then update the record for this concert to reflect a change in ticket price. Effectively this results in two versions of data for this concert while both artists have authenticated the earlier version of the concert only U2 has authenticated the new version. Coupling this functionality with the usage of filters and isolation levels users can be presented with one or more versions of information regarding the same concert as well as perspectives from which the information is verified. We see an example of this filtering and isolation in example where a reference to another version of the same event is located.

As mentioned above content management system may allow originators and subscribers to enter and receive data about fans and consumers in the music industry setting. A B A and B illustrate application interfaces for allowing originator and subscriber to enter and receive data about fans and consumers in the music industry setting. In this exemplary system originators and subscribers are able mark their relations to concerts and entities and to request receiving additional information from entities either directly or brokered through the system . Originators and subscribers are also able to search for subscribers matching specified conditions.

Other embodiments of the present teaching will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

