---

title: Techniques for controlling a radio processor in a mobile computing device
abstract: Techniques for controlling a radio processor for a mobile computing device are described. An apparatus may comprise a mobile computing device to support cellular voice communication, wireless data communication and computing capabilities, the mobile computing device including an applications processor coupled to a radio processor. The applications processor may include a radio management module to manage operations for the radio processor, the radio management module having a radio control module arranged to enable and disable the radio processor in accordance with a radio control schedule. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504120&OS=08504120&RS=08504120
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 08504120
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. For example a mobile computing device may support cellular communication over cellular network such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network as well as Evolution Data Optimized EVDO data communication over a wireless radio channel. A design consideration for mobile computing devices having such robust functionality however is managing power consumption by the device. Demands for longer battery life and smaller form factors derived from smaller battery sizes are important considerations for mobile computing devices. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve power consumption for mobile computing devices.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to a mobile computing device arranged to support various computing and communications capabilities. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to a mobile computing device having a dual processor computing architecture to provide the computing and communications capabilities. In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may implement an applications processor and a radio processor. The applications processor may provide computing capabilities for the mobile computing device such as executing application programs and system programs for the mobile computing device. The radio processor may provide communications capabilities for the mobile computing device such as supporting cellular voice communication and wireless data communication.

The use of a dual processor computing architecture for a mobile computing device provides several advantages including increasing the speed and functionality offered by a mobile computing device. For example an operator may execute various applications to process or manage data while simultaneously engaging in voice or data communications without a substantially degradation in performance or increased load on either processor. One disadvantage of a dual processor computing architecture however is the increase in the rate of power consumption from the portable power supply such as a battery. This effectively decreases an amount of time an operator may use a mobile computing device away from a tethered or wired power supply or alternatively causes an increase in the size of the portable power supply to provide the desired time of mobile operation.

To solve these and other problems the various embodiments may comprise a mobile computing device with a dual processor computing architecture with an applications processor to include or implement a radio management module to control operations for a radio processor. The radio management module may include a radio control module arranged to enable and disable the radio processor in accordance with a radio control schedule. The radio control schedule may include various radio control preferences as defined by an operator or from default settings. For example an operator may define a recurring event in the radio control schedule to disable the radio processor every night at 11 00 PM and enable the radio processor every morning at 8 00 AM. The radio control module may be coupled to a radio timer and sends a disable radio time command to the applications processor at 11 00 PM. The applications processor in turn sends a disable radio time signal to the radio processor to disable the radio processor. Similarly the radio control module may send an enable radio time command to the applications processor at 8 00 AM and the applications processor sends an enable radio time signal to the radio processor to enable the radio processor. Consequently the radio control module may automatically enable and disable the radio processor at certain dates and or times as defined in the radio control schedule and as programmed by an operator or user. Accordingly the amount of power consumed by the radio processor for a given time period may be reduced thereby allowing longer battery life or a smaller form factor for a given battery.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the mobile computing device may include an applications processor and a radio processor with the processors connected or coupled by a signal line . The mobile computing device may further include a memory unit . The memory unit may store or implement a radio management module . The radio management module may include a radio schedule application a radio timer a radio control module and one or more radio control schedules . The mobile computing device may also include a location system or component such as a global positioning system GPS . The applications processor the radio processor the memory and the GPS may all be coupled to a portable or self contained power supply such as a battery . It may be appreciated that the illustrated embodiment of the mobile computing device as shown in includes a limited number of elements for purposes of clarity and not limitation. A more detailed block diagram for the mobile computing device may be described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may comprise or implement a radio management module . The radio management module may comprise for example hardware and or software such as radio management control logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host or applications processor . The logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In one or more embodiments the radio management module may be implemented as one or more radio management application programming interface API commands on the applications processor . In some cases however the radio management module may be implemented or directly coupled to the radio processor . This may be advantageous for example when the mobile computing device utilizes only a single processor. In this case the remote management module may be implemented on a different power plane than the processor to allow the remote management module to enable and disable the single processor. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

When enabled the radio management module may be arranged to automatically and or selectively manage some or all of the radio operations for the radio processor . For example the radio schedule application may be used to receive operator instructions to define or program a set of radio control preferences for a radio control schedule . The radio schedule application may set or program the radio timer using the radio control preferences defined for the radio control schedule . The radio control module may receive timing information or a notification signal from the radio timer and radio control preference information from the radio control schedule and automatically enable and disable the radio processor in accordance with the timing information and radio control preference information.

It can be appreciated that the automatic or selective management of the radio processor may provide several advantageous over conventional techniques. For example the radio management module may reduce or eliminate the need for an operator of the mobile computing device to manually enable and disable the radio processor . This may be desirable since an operator may forget or find it inconvenient to manually power down the radio processor of the mobile computing device . In another example the radio management module may reduce power consumption from the battery during those time periods when the radio processor is disabled. This may extend an amount of time the battery may provide power to the mobile computing device when disconnected from a tethered power source such as an Alternating Current AC power line. In addition to or alternatively this may allow a smaller form factor for the battery thereby allowing a smaller form factor or different geometries for the mobile computing device .

In various embodiments the radio management module may include a radio schedule application . In one embodiment for example the radio scheduling application may be arranged to receive operator instructions to define a set of radio control preferences for a radio control schedule and generate the radio control schedule in accordance with the operator instructions. The radio schedule application may include various graphic user interface GUI views that allow an operator or user of the mobile computing device to configure radio schedule preferences for automatically controlling the radio processor . The radio schedule preferences may also include various default settings. The radio control schedules may also include various preprogrammed radio control schedules included by the manufacturer of the mobile computing device or third party vendors. The radio schedule application may store the defined or selected radio schedule preferences in a radio control schedule 

In various embodiments the radio management module may include one or more radio timers . The radio timer may comprise hardware or software based timers arranged to provide timing information to the radio control module . For example the radio timer may be set or programmed with various radio control time values corresponding to various radio control time parameters stored with the radio control schedule . For example the radio schedule application may retrieve a schedule start parameter from the radio control schedule and program the radio timer with the schedule start parameter to begin timing operations for disabling the radio processor . In another example the radio schedule application may retrieve a schedule end parameter from the radio control schedule and program the radio timer with the schedule end parameter to begin timing operations for enabling the radio processor . The radio timer may notify the radio control module when a current time matches the schedule start parameter or the schedule end parameter. If radio timer is implemented as a count down timer then the radio timer may notify the radio control module when the defined time interval has expired.

In various embodiments the radio management module may include a radio control module . The radio control module may be arranged to send commands to the application processor to enable and disable the radio processor in accordance with a radio control schedule . For example the radio schedule application may set the radio timer for a schedule start time based on a schedule start parameter from the radio control schedule . The radio timer may send timing information to the radio control module . For example the timing information may include a notification indicating that the radio timer is at the schedule start time. The radio control module may receive the notification from the radio timer and send a disable radio control command to the applications processor . The applications processor may send a disable radio control signal to the radio processor over the signal line to disable the radio processor for the mobile computing device . Similarly the radio schedule application may set the radio timer for a schedule end time based on a schedule end parameter from the radio control schedule . The radio timer may send timing information to the radio control module . For example the timing information may include a notification indicating that the radio timer is at the schedule end time. The radio control module may receive the notification from the radio timer and send an enable radio control command to the applications processor . The applications processor may send an enable radio control signal to the radio processor over the signal line to enable the radio processor for the mobile computing device .

The radio control module may enable and disable the radio processor using the signal line . The applications processor and the radio processor may be connected or coupled by the signal line . In one embodiment for example the signal line may be used to implement a General Purpose Input Output GPIO technique that is typically used in the embedded electronics field. The GPIO peripheral provides dedicated general purpose pins that can be configured as either inputs or outputs. When configured as an output an internal register may be written to in order to control the state driven on the output pin. When configured as an input the state of the input may be detected by reading the state of an internal register. In this case the applications processor may write to an internal register to assert or drive different states on an output pin of the applications processor to send signals to a corresponding input pin of the radio processor via the signal line . The radio processor may read an internal register to detect the current state of the input signal received by the input pin of the radio processor . The different states may enable or disable the radio processor . Additional signal lines other than the signal line may be used when the radio processor has more than two operating modes. Furthermore other techniques may be used to allow the applications processor to enable and disable the radio processor as desired for a given implementation.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the GUI view may comprise a GUI view with various radio schedule parameter fields . For example the radio schedule parameter fields may include a schedule name field a schedule event field a schedule location field a schedule start field a schedule end field a schedule occur field and a schedule reminder field .

An operator may define or select various radio schedule parameters for each of the corresponding radio schedule parameter fields . For example the radio schedule parameters may be presented to the operator as a list of possible candidate radio schedule parameters for each radio schedule parameter field and the operator may select one of the candidate radio schedule parameters from the provided list for each radio schedule parameter field . Various exemplary candidate radio schedule parameter selections may be shown in the GUI view .

In one embodiment for example a schedule name parameter may be defined or selected for the schedule name field . The schedule name parameter may allow an operator to define or select a name for the radio control schedule . An operator may define separate radio control schedules for different purposes or environments. For example an operator may define one radio control schedule for use when at home another radio control schedule for use when at work yet another radio control schedule for when traveling and so forth. The schedule name parameter allows an operator to name different radio control schedules and use the name to identify and load a particular radio control schedule . For example assume that an operator defines or selects a set of radio schedule parameters to include a Home Schedule for a schedule name parameter corresponding to the schedule name field . The Home Schedule may comprise a name for a radio control schedule that an operator desires to use when at their home or residence. Other radio control schedules may be defined such as an Office Schedule a Travel Schedule a Vacation Schedule an Airplane Schedule a Flight Schedule and so forth. Each radio control schedule may have different radio schedule parameters defined for the radio schedule parameter fields to fit different use scenarios.

In one embodiment for example a schedule event parameter may be defined or selected for the schedule event field . The schedule event parameter may indicate the various types of operating modes for the radio processor when disabled. The mobile computing device in general and the radio processor in particular may have various operating modes that consume varying amounts of power from the battery . The schedule event parameter may indicate a particular operating mode for the radio processor to be placed in when disabled. As used herein the terms disable disabled disabling or similar terms includes placing the radio processor in various operating modes that reduce power consumed from the battery as well as removing power completely from the radio processor .

In one embodiment for example the radio processor may be placed in one of three operating modes including a Level 0 or Active operating mode a Level 1 or Idle operating mode and a Level 2 or Sleep operating mode. The Level 0 or Active operating mode represents an operating mode where all the features of the radio processor are enabled or activated. The Level 0 or Active operating mode typically draws the maximum amount of power from the battery relative to the other operating modes. The Level 2 or Sleep operating mode represents an operating mode where none of the features of the radio processor are enabled or activated or stated another way are disabled or deactivated. The Level 2 or Sleep operating mode typically draws the minimum amount of power from the battery relative to the other operating modes. The Level 1 or Idle operating mode represents an operating mode having a corresponding power draw that is between Level 0 and Level 2. The Level 1 or Idle operating mode is where a sub set of features of the radio processor are enabled or activated. The Level 1 or Idle operating mode is typically when the radio processor is placed into a Level 2 or Sleep operating mode and the radio processor is periodically or intermittently switched to a higher operating mode e.g. Level 0 or Active operating mode to scan a control channel for call indicators. Although only 3 levels of operating modes and corresponding power levels are described in this embodiment it may be appreciated that any number of operating modes and corresponding power levels may be implemented for the mobile computing device . The particular operating modes and corresponding levels of power consumption implemented for the mobile computing device may be defined by any number of different standards as desired for a given set of design parameters and performance constraints. The principles as described in the various embodiments may be applicable to any mobile computing device having at least two different operating modes with corresponding power requirements that draw two different levels of power. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Referring again to the schedule event parameter assume an operator defines or selects a Low Power Mode for a schedule event parameter corresponding to the schedule event field . The Low Power Mode is an operating mode defined for use with Code Division Multiple Access CDMA communication devices and is similar to the Level 2 or Sleep operating mode as previously described. Setting a Low Power Mode for the schedule event parameter indicates that the operator would like the radio processor to be placed in a Level 2 or Sleep operating mode when disabled. When the mobile computing device is implemented as a Global System For Mobile Communications GSM cellular telephone then an operator might select a Deep Sleep Mode for a schedule event parameter . The Deep Sleep Mode is an operating mode defined for use with GSM communication devices and is similar to the Level 2 or Sleep operating mode as previously described.

In one embodiment for example a schedule location parameter may be defined or selected for the schedule event field . The schedule location parameter may represent a location where the radio control schedule identified by the schedule name parameter should be activated enabled or implemented. For example the radio management module may be arranged to load and use a certain radio control schedule based on a current location for the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may include a location system to identify a location for the mobile computing device . The location system may implement any technique to approximate an instantaneous location for the mobile computing device . An example of a location system may include a GPS device or component as represented by the GPS . Other location systems and techniques however may be used in lieu of the GPS . For example various mobile positioning techniques may be used. Mobile positioning is a technique used by telecommunication companies to approximate a location for a mobile phone using the existing cellular infrastructure equipment such as the base stations or node B systems. GSM localization is a form of mobile positioning that uses multilateration to determine the location of GSM mobile phones. Examples of GSM localization techniques may include Cell Identification Enhanced Cell Identification Time Difference of Arrival TDOA Time of Arrival TOA Angle of Arrival AOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD Cell Broadcast Assisted GPS and so forth.

In various embodiments the radio management module may use the location information from the GPS to select and load a radio control schedule based on a current location for the mobile computing device . The GPS may provide location information to the radio management module . The radio schedule application may receive the location information from the GPS and load a radio control schedule with a name corresponding to the schedule name parameter . The radio schedule application may then program the radio timer with the appropriate time parameters retrieved from the loaded radio control schedule .

In the example shown in the GUI view assume an operator selects Home for a schedule location parameter corresponding to the schedule location field . As the operator travels the GPS may periodically provide location information to the radio management module . The radio schedule application may compare the location information received from the GPS with a schedule table. The schedule table may include a list of schedule location parameters and corresponding schedule name parameters . Whenever the current location information received from the GPS matches a schedule location parameter from the schedule table then the radio schedule application may load the radio control schedule corresponding to the matched schedule name parameter . The radio control module may use the loaded radio control schedule until the current location information received from the GPS indicates a different radio control schedule e.g. an Office Schedule radio control schedule is to be used by the radio control module .

In another example assume that a set of radio control preferences have been defined specifically for use when on an airplane or helicopter. Further assume that an operator names a radio control schedule with such radio control preferences with a Flight Schedule and selects the Flight Schedule as the schedule name parameter of the schedule name field . Whenever the location information from the GPS indicates a certain altitude or height the radio schedule application may load a radio control schedule with a name corresponding to the schedule name parameter of Flight Schedule. The radio control module may utilize the radio control schedule to automatically control the operations of the radio processor . For example the radio control module may immediately disable the radio processor while above a certain altitude or height and enable the radio processor when below a certain altitude or height. In some cases the mobile computing device may include a map application to provide map information to identify an altitude for ground level of a current location such as an airport and provide an absolute difference between the ground level and the current altitude to use as a trigger to enable and disable the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example a schedule start parameter and a schedule end parameter may be defined or selected for the respective schedule start field and the schedule end field . The schedule start parameter may represent a date and or time when the radio control module is to disable the radio processor . The schedule end parameter may represent a date and or time when the radio control module is to enable the radio processor . For example assume an operator defines Aug. 20 2007 11 00 PM for a schedule start parameter corresponding to the schedule start field and Sep. 20 2007 08 00 AM for a schedule end parameter corresponding to the schedule end field . In this case the radio control module may disable the radio processor when the radio timer indicates a time matching 11 00 PM and enable the radio processor when the radio timer indicates a time matching 08 00 AM. The dates of Aug. 20 2007 and Sep. 20 2007 may be used to determine when the radio control module is to start and stop using the radio control schedule respectively. The schedule start parameter and the schedule end parameter may reflect any number of different time zones such as Eastern Standard Time EST and Pacific Standard Time PST as well as different time standards or definitions such as International Atomic Time TAI Coordinated Universal Time UTC and so forth.

In one embodiment for example a schedule occur parameter may be defined or selected for the schedule occur field . The schedule occur parameter may represent how often the time schedules indicated by the schedule start parameter and the schedule end parameter are to be repeated. For example assume an operator defines Sat Sun for a schedule occur parameter corresponding to the schedule occur field . In this case the 11 00 PM to 8 00 AM time schedule may be implemented every Saturday and Sunday occurring between the dates of Aug. 20 2007 and Sep. 20 2007. Such parameters may be set to reflect those days when an operator will likely be at home.

In one embodiment for example a schedule reminder parameter may be defined or selected for the schedule occur field . The schedule reminder parameter may represent whether to remind an operator that a given radio control schedule will be implemented by the radio management module and if so how long prior to implementing the radio control schedule . For example assume an operator defines 15 minutes for a schedule reminder parameter corresponding to the schedule reminder field . In this case the radio schedule application will provide a reminder to the operator that a radio control schedule corresponding to the name Home Schedule will be implemented starting on Aug. 20 2007 at 11 00 PM with the radio schedule application to provide the reminder 15 minutes prior to 11 00 PM namely at 10 45 PM.

In various embodiments the radio management module may be arranged to generate a prompt for an operator to manually enable or disable the radio processor based on a location. In some implementations the user may be prompted to manually enable and or disable the radio processor when the mobile computing device is in a certain location such as boarding an airplane for travel. For example the location information may be used as inputs to a map application to identify points of interest on a map such as airports or helipads. Whenever the GPS generates location information that matches coordinates on a map corresponding to an airport the radio management module may either load a radio control schedule corresponding to the location e.g. the Flight Schedule radio control schedule or manually prompt the operator to disable the radio processor . Similarly when the GPS generates location information that matches coordinates on a map indicating that the mobile computing device is leaving the airport the radio management module may either load a new radio control schedule or manually prompt the operator to enable the radio processor .

The logic flow may illustrate various operations for the mobile computing device in general and the radio management module in particular. For example the logic flow may illustrate operations for the radio management module to disable some or all of the operations for the radio processor . As shown in the logic flow may set a radio timer for a schedule start time based on a schedule start parameter from a radio control schedule at block . The logic flow may receive notification that the radio timer is at the schedule start time at block . The logic flow may send a disable radio control command to disable a radio processor for a mobile computing device supporting cellular voice communication and wireless data communication to reduce power consumption of a battery at block . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment the logic flow may set a radio timer for a schedule start time based on a schedule start parameter from a radio control schedule at block . For example a schedule start parameter may represent a date and or time when the radio control module is to disable the radio processor . The radio schedule application may set or program the radio timer with a schedule start parameter corresponding to the schedule start field from the radio control schedule . An example of a schedule start parameter may include Aug. 20 2007 11 00 PM as shown in the GUI view of .

In one embodiment the logic flow may receive notification that the radio timer is at the schedule start time at block . For example the radio timer may be arranged to compare a current time with the schedule start parameter and output a notification signal when the current time matches the schedule start parameter . The radio control module may receive the notification signal from the radio timer indicating that the schedule start time has been reached.

In one embodiment the logic flow may send a disable radio control command to disable a radio processor for a mobile computing device supporting cellular voice communication and wireless data communication to reduce power consumption of a battery at block . For example once the radio control module receives the notification signal from the radio timer the radio control module may send a disable radio control command to the applications processor . The applications processor may send or assert a disable radio control signal over the signal line to the radio processor . The radio processor may disable operations in response to the disable radio control signal.

Using operations similar to the operations performed by the blocks and of the logic flow the radio management module may enable some or all of the operations for the radio processor . For example the radio schedule application of the radio management module may set the radio timer for a schedule end time based on a schedule end parameter from the radio control schedule . The schedule end parameter may represent a date and or time when the radio control module is to enable the radio processor . An example of a schedule end parameter may include Sep. 20 2007 8 00 AM as shown in the GUI view of . The radio timer may output a notification signal indicating that the radio timer is at the schedule end time. The radio control module may receive the notification signal from the radio timer and send an enable radio control command to the applications processor . The applications processor may send or assert an enable radio control signal to enable the radio processor via the signal line . The radio processor may enable operations in response to the enable radio control signal.

The mobile computing device may provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide mobile packet data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering mobile packet data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Optimized EVDO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EVDV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Various embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include any software element arranged to perform particular operations or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments.

