---

title: Dialysis membrane for separation on microchips
abstract: Laser-induced phase-separation polymerization of a porous acrylate polymer is used for in-situ fabrication of dialysis membranes inside glass microchannels. A shaped 355 nm laser beam is used to produce a porous polymer membrane with a thickness of about 15 μm, which bonds to the glass microchannel and forms a semi-permeable membrane. Differential permeation through a membrane formed with pentaerythritol triacrylate was observed and quantified by comparing the response of the membrane to fluorescein and fluorescently tagging 200 nm latex microspheres. Differential permeation was observed and quantified by comparing the response to rhodamine 560 and lactalbumin protein in a membrane formed with SPE-methylene bisacrylamide. The porous membranes illustrate the capability for the present technique to integrate sample cleanup into chip-based analysis systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07754077&OS=07754077&RS=07754077
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07754077
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070705
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims benefit to Ser. No. 10 443 491 filed May 22 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 264 723 issued Sep. 9 2007 entitled DIALYSIS ON MICROCHIPS USING THIN POROUS POLYMER MEMBRANES which claims priority to Provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 423 176 originally filed Nov. 1 2002 and titled DIALYSIS IN MICROCHIPS USING PHOTOPATTERNED THIN POROUS POLYMER MEMBRANES .

This invention was made with Government support under government contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

The invention is directed specifically to dialysis of chemical and biological samples in a microfabricated device prior to analysis. In general it relates to enabling selective control of the transport of species e.g. molecules or particles in microfluidic channels through the use of a photopatterned porous membrane with controlled pore structure.

Real life biological environmental or chemical samples frequently contain a large number of molecules of differing molecular sizes and weights. A few examples of such samples are bodily fluids such as blood urine and saliva or the contents of a cell. The size of these particles can range from 0.1 mm to less than 1 nm. The presence of particles spanning such a wide range can create a number of is problems in miniaturized systems such as blockage of fluidic channels and adsorption of unwanted molecules on system surfaces channel fouling . Furthermore in typical applications it is often desirable to analyze specific classes of molecules e.g. proteins eliminating other particles e.g. cells and cell fragments in order to reduce the background clutter in the sample and thereby simplifying analysis and providing greater sensitivity. In particular in biomedical applications in order to study cell proteins and signaling molecules the cell membrane must be ruptured and the contents of the cell released. In practice cell samples are typically opened by mechanical emulsion or by exposing the cell sample to a denaturing solution. In doing so one is left with a myriad of particles and molecules that must be filtered in order to be analyzed.

Dialysis is a means of separating molecules using a porous membrane. The separation is achieved according to molecular size or molecular weight of the assemblage of molecules under study molecules smaller than the membrane pore size will pass through the membrane while larger molecules are excluded. Dialysis therefore can be applied to achieve either of two purposes a to remove interfering compounds contaminants or salts from a biological sample or b to extract those molecules of interest from a dirty sample or a crowded assemblage of materials. In the former case the molecules that do not pass through the membrane are of interest while in the latter case those molecules that do move through the membrane are of interest. The driving force for dialysis is the concentration differential between the solutions sample and perfusion liquid respectively on either side of the membrane. For filtration the process is the same but the driving force is a pressure gradient. For maximum efficiency the membrane is made to be as thin as possible while still providing sufficient rigidity and strength to prevent membrane rupture. Moreover the concentration differential across the membrane is maintained as large as possible and the membrane pore size distribution is made as narrow as possible such that the tails of the distribution decline rapidly.

Microfluidic devices specifically those constructed using glass wet etching silicon micromachining or LIGA type processes have in many ways revolutionized the analytical and synthetic capabilities available for chemistry biology and medicine the term microfluidics is herein intended to imply fluidic processes occurring in fluid channels having cross sectional dimensions below 1 mm and lengths ranging from millimeters to tens of centimeters . A number of analytical techniques have been shown to perform better in microfluidic structures of this type and synthesis of small structures using the minimum amount of reagents requires efficient use of materials in small channels. Microfluidic devices allow analysis using minute amounts of samples crucial when analyzing bodily fluids or expensive drug formulations are fast and enable development of portable systems.

When dealing with small volume samples however one of the major problems is a loss of sample due to the transfer of samples to and from the dialysis equipment. When sample is present in such a small volume and not readily available the loss of sample becomes an important consideration.

There is a need therefore to develop a method and a device for performing dialysis that does not require the transfer of samples out of the dialyzer and which thereby minimizes handling loss. There are many devices currently available in the market for dialyzing small sample volumes. However most if not all of these devices require advanced preparation before a sample can be dialyzed.

Moreover a common feature of these prior art dialysis devices is the need to transfer the sample into the dialysis device for analysis and the need for extracting the sample from the dialysis device after dialysis. These multi step procedures involve an inevitable loss of sample are operationally complex require prolonged analysis times and make integration and automation difficult and expensive.

Simultaneous miniaturization and integration of the sample pretreatment methods into the miniaturized analysis device not only lead to significant improvement in performance but also allow autonomous operation.

An embodiment of the present invention therefore allows for an integrated miniaturized dialysis device wherein porous polymer membranes are fabricated in situ in micro channels and used as a size selective dialysis element to allow for species of different sizes to be distinguished filtered and extracted.

The present embodiment consists of a means for dialyzing species in a micro channel device that is based on the species size. Utility is achieved by polymerizing a thin porous polymer membrane across a channel intersection within the microchannel device. A membrane of about 0.5 m to about 20 m in thickness can be used for this purpose. Because the shape and thickness of the membrane is controlled primarily by a UV light beam used to initiate a polymerization reaction in a solution contained within a microchannel control of the excitation light beam focus and collimation can be used to control the membrane thickness. The thickness of the membrane is also negatively affected by photo initiated radical diffusion solvent phase polymer diffusion and bulk fluid motion within the fluid microchannel. These factors can be controlled by eliminating bulk fluid flow before initiating polymerization and by the incorporation of polymerization inhibitors to minimize radical diffusion.

In preparing the desired membrane various monomers and solvents may be chosen to provide a polymerized membrane having a specific distribution of pore size. Moreover these constituents incorporate specific molecules into the membrane that impart a specific property to the membrane and to the membrane pore structure. Such membranes therefore can be adapted or engineered to pass molecules having a specific size or having a specific protein molecular weight cutoff as measured in Dalton units . Moreover the choice of monomer solvent combinations can be used to dictate polymer properties such as i pore size ii mechanical strength which can be enhanced by using high polymer cross linking density using for example 1 to 100 of polyfunctional acrylates such as pentaerythritol triacrylate polyfunctional methacrylate such as 1 3 butanediol dimethacrylate or polyfunctional acrylamide such as methylene bisacrylamide iii hydrophobicity hydrophilicity which can be controlled through the choice of monomers e.g. ethylene glycol diacrylate or zwitterionic molecules for hydrophilicity and alkyl acrylates for hydrophobicity and iv polymer charge which can be controlled through incorporation of charged monomers into the membrane such as 2 acryloyloxy ethyl ammonium methyl sulfate salt MOE for positive charge 2 acrylamido 2 methyl 1 propanesulfonic acid AMPS for negative charge.

Of all of these properties however pore size is most common and most important. By utilizing carefully chosen appropriate combinations of monomers and solvents such as are shown in TABLE 1 pore sizes may be adjusted from small to large in the dialysis membrane. In particular for a given concentration of solute solvents that are characterized as strong with respect to the solute monomer provide for a smaller average pore size upon polymerization while solvents characterized as weak provide for a larger average pore size. Utilizing a monomer such as SPE N N dimethyl N 2 methacryloyl oxyethyl N 3 sulfopropyl ammonium betaine and a solvent such as water an average pose size of 1 nm to 3 nm is achieved while a monomer such as pentaerythritol triacrylate with a solvent such as 1 propanol the measured pore size is about 30 nm.

This embodiment of the invention allows for two or more liquids one sample liquid and one or more perfusion liquids to be brought into contact on a microfluidic chip separated only by a thin 0.5 m 100 m photopatterned porous polymer membrane concentration gradient driven diffusion will cause those molecules whose size is smaller than the membrane pore size to be transported from sample through the membrane to the perfusion liquids. Implementing this in a microfluidic chip format allows molecules having a size range of interest to be transported to analysis channels e.g. chemical separation to reaction zones labeling enzymatic or to off chip sites for mass spectrometry.

A variety of geometries may be used to implement on chip dialysis including co flow and counter flow operation single and multiple membrane configuration straight and tortuous path configuration and both single pass and recirculating configurations. In particular illustrates an example of a counter flow geometry wherein the dialysis is 1 cm in length.

Standard glass microchips having conventional cross shaped channels were obtained from Micralyne chemicals were obtained from Aldrich and used as received. In order to facilitate bonding between the glass surfaces within the channels and the polymer membrane the glass surfaces within the microchannels were first exposed to a 2 2 1 by volume mixture of water glacial acetic acid and 3 trimethoxysilylpropyl acrylate for a period of 30 minutes covalently linking the silane to the wall and exposing the acrylate group for polymerization.

Following surface treatment the microchannels are filled with a monomer solvent photo initiator solution comprising the following formulation. A monomer mixture consisting of 95 by weight of SPE N N dimethyl N 2 methacryloyl oxyethyl N 3 sulfopropyl ammonium betaine cross linked with 5 by weight N N methylene bisacrylamide is prepared. The monomer mixture is subsequently incorporated into a quantity of water to yield a 40 60 monomer solvent solution and includes 0 30 by weight of an organic additive to help control pore size and a small amount of a buffer solution to control the pH of the solution mixture. In the present formulation the organic additive was about 2 by weight 2 methoxyethanol although C1 C3 alcohols or acetonitrile could be used also and the buffer solution was about a 2 by weight 10 mM concentration of a phosphate buffer solution to maintain the monomer solvent solution mixture at a pH of 5.5.

Lastly a small quantity of a commercial grade photo initiator is added to the monomer solvent solution mixture to render the solution sensitive to UV light exposure. In the present case the photo initiator was 2 2 Azobis 2 methylpropionamide dihydrochloride purchased from Wako Chemicals USA Inc. a division of Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. Osaka Japan under the trade name of V 50 . This material is added to the monomer solvent solution in concentrations of generally about 10 mg ml of the monomer solution and complete the polymerizable solution formulation used to create the dialysis membrane of the present invention.

The other monomer solvent solution mixture formulations are of course possible including each of those listed in Table 1. Other photo initiators are also possible particularly 2 2 Azobis isobutyronitrile also known as AIBN or V 40 again purchased from Wako Chemicals USA Inc. However the formulation recited above is preferred for practicing dialysis as described herein.

After preparing the interior surfaces of the microchannel system and filling it with the single phase monomer solvent solution the intersection region of the to microchannels was then exposed to a focused collimated beam of UV laser light shown in . As this beam of light interacts with the single phase solution a phase separation polymerization reaction is initiated and catalyzed by the presence of the photo initiator within the cross sectional region of the microchannel into which the laser light is imaged. The polymerization reaction eventually produces the is desired porous membrane within the microchannel as shown schematically in . Actual images of operational membranes are shown in as well as .

As shown in a thin 4 m 14 m porous polymer membrane is fabricated in situ in glass micro channels by projection lithography shaping and focusing the 355 nm output of a 12 kHz 800 ps pulse 160 nJ pulse frequency tripled Nd YAG laser into a 1 2 m sheet and using this sheet to generate photo initiated phase separation polymerization in the irradiated region. The thickness of the laser sheet was minimized by spatially filtering the focused laser output beam with a 2 m slit and imaging the resulting diffraction pattern at 0.5 magnification onto the desired channel location into which the membrane is to be formed.

As noted above a related photolithography technique is described in commonly owned U.S. patent Ser. No. 10 141 906 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 952 962. However this reference recites a contact photolithographic process that is inoperable in the present case. Because the imaging light beam must propagate through roughly a millimeter of glass covering the embedded microchannel in which the membrane is to be formed the incoming light is subject to degradation due to the effects of diffraction and dispersion. In order to overcome these problems the Applicants have adapted projection photolithography techniques for focusing an image of the desired structure cross section into the region of the microchannel and thus avoiding the problems of image integrity in the former technique as applied to the present embodiment. The process is described in greater detail in Voltage addressable on off microvalves for high pressure microchip separations 979 pp. 147 154 2002 herein incorporated by reference.

The final thickness of the membrane however is determined by factors that include more than just the optical properties of the incident laser beam sheet.

The membrane thickness is also affected by diffusion of radical species by solved phase polymer diffusion and by bulk fluid motion. Effects of radical diffusion are reduced by retaining the natural polymerization inhibitors present in the system 15 ppm hydroquinone monomethyl ether solved O this effectively decreases the chemical lifetime and diffusion length of the radical products of photo dissociation.

Laser excitation was terminated upon the onset of phase separation. Phase separation was inferred from light scattering from the membrane fluid interface.

Following polymerization the system was flushed thoroughly with 1 propanol and water to remove residual polymer monomer solvent material and then filled with aqueous solutions for testing. The nominal pore size of the present embodiment of porous polymer was established to be about 1 nm to about 3 nm as measured with mercury porosimetry BET and with SEM.

A second embodiment is shown in wherein the membrane shown as element diagonally separating intersecting fluid channels and is subjected to a similar test as is illustrated in . In the present case however the test was modified to improve the granularity of the attempt to determine the molecular weight cut off of the SPE membrane. In this case the microchannel system was exposed to free dye Rhodamine 560 MW 0.37 kDa 1 nm and a solution containing FITC labeled proteins with different molecular weights. In particular the response of insulin MW 5.7 kDa lactalbumin MW 14 kDa 5 6 nm bovine serum albumin MW 66 kDa and anti biotin MW 150 kDa in their ability to diffuse through the membrane was tested. show the rapid permeation of the Rhodamine dye through the membrane. As seen in at 20 seconds after its introduction the rhodamine dye has already migrated well into both arms of the fluid channels to the right of the membrane . However show that insulin 5.7 kDa experiences only barely measurable diffusion through the membrane and show that lactalbumin presents virtually no measurable diffusion across the membrane even after a residence time of over 12 minutes. The larger species i.e. those having MW 14 kDa also show no diffusion and for brevity are not shown. These preliminary results therefore demonstrate that control of molecular weight cutoff through these porous polymer membranes is achievable by precisely engineering the constitution of water 2 methoxyethanol solutions.

Finally because combinations of monomers and solvents may be chosen to provide specific pore size distributions as noted above those skilled in the art will realize that a dialysis device may be provided having a plurality of membranes each exhibiting a unique specific pore size which would allow for isolating particles in is any specific size range for any specific application. Moreover the method described herein is applicable to many different geometries. illustrate a simple variation of the present technique wherein the membrane diagonally separates a junction made by two intersecting channels and is an example of cross flow dialysis. illustrates a counter flow geometry wherein the membrane divides a single channel that connects two widely separated channel junctions by interconnecting a series of intermediate spaced support posts. The geometry of has been successfully fabricated with membranes lengths of up to 1 cm.

Finally as shown in the length of the separation network of can be increased by convoluting the fluid channel. This allows for compact structures while still allowing for sufficient dialysis length to achieve the intended separation result.

It is therefore apparent that due to the flexibility of the present process other geometries are possible and are limited only by the routineer s ability to provide the necessary lithographic tools.

