---

title: Digital notification and response system
abstract: A digital notification and response system utilizing an administrator interface to transmit a message from an administrator to a user contact device. The system comprises a dynamic information database that includes user contact data, priority information, and response data. The administrator initiates distribution of the message based upon grouping information, priority information, and the priority order. The message is transmitted through at least two industry standard gateways simultaneously to groups of user contact devices based upon priority information. Once the message is received by the user contact device, the user contact device transmits a response through the industry standard gateways back to the dynamic information database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07685245&OS=07685245&RS=07685245
owner: Techradium, Inc.
number: 07685245
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071219
---
The present patent application is a continuation in part application which claims the benefit under 35 USC 120 of prior non provisional application Ser. No. 11 522 723 filed Sep. 18 2006 which claims the benefit of application Ser. No. 11 117 594 filed Apr. 28 2005 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 130 389 the entirety of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present embodiments relate generally to the creation and delivery of messages to the routing and to the verification and collection of responses to the messages. The system is universally applicable to and independent of the type of messaging system and device selected by the message recipients.

More particularly the present embodiments relate to an immediate response information or emergency system.

Businesses and their employees are actively involved in sending and receiving information using a variety of messaging formats systems and message receiving devices. For example a traveling employee might in a single trip away from the office receive messages sent by fax pager electronic mail e mail and voice mail. In addition the messaging devices by which these messages are actually received might include a pager a cellular telephone a paper fax machine a voice mailbox or a portable computer connected to the Internet or to a private local area network LAN . Often these messages will vary in their level of importance. This could affect the delivery methods and or the nature and timing of any needed response to the message. For example the arrival of an e mail message from a particular sender might cause the recipient to fax a report in response. A message reporting a failure in a mission critical computer system may need an immediate response from a maintenance technician that the message has been received and will be acted on. A message reporting a fire or other disaster may need to be sent simultaneously or in a notification hierarchy to multiple members of a disaster response team with escalating methods of messaging and response gathering to insure that every team member has been notified and has responded in an appropriate fashion. In some group messaging contexts the post message processing organizing and reporting of multiple message responses can be important in further decision making by the message originator.

The prior art methods implemented in commercially available unified messaging and device specific systems generally provide one way delivery with destinations defined by the sender. Unfortunately prior art systems do not solve the need for originating a message with attachment and response requirements in a manner and format that is independent of the type of the device that is to be used for delivering the message to the recipients. Also prior art systems do not permit the message notification methods to be defined by the recipients and do not include a facility for automatic processing and organization of message responses. Accordingly known e mail unified messaging and specific device systems using these prior art methods are deficient in responding to these requirements.

A need exists for a system and method for automating and escalating the delivery of messages and collection of message responses implemented through messaging devices of multiple types. The system needs to work in conjunction with recipient rules routing verification of notification and response and collection of responses in a predefined format.

A need exists for a digital information and response system to bridge the gap between the government and the public for communication without being limited to one device.

A need exists for a method of communication from an administrator which reaches all possible forms of communication devices so that all members of the public can be reached.

A need exists for a system that can transmit a message in multiple languages to multiple user devices to inform the public of emergency situations and general information simultaneously.

Before explaining the present embodiments in detail it is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular embodiments and that the invention can be practiced or carried out in various ways.

The present embodiments relate to a digital notification and response system for transmitting messages to groups of users and receiving responses. The system can provide immediate response information or emergency information.

The present embodiments relate to the creation and delivery of messages and to the routing and to the verification and collection of responses to the messages. The system is universally applicable to and independent of the type of messaging system and device selected by the message recipients.

The present embodiments relate to the simultaneous transmission of a message in multiple languages to a user device wherein the recipient of the message can select the language for transmission to the recipient.

The present embodiments provide a timely and uniform manner to contact numerous users through numerous user contact devices such as cellular telephones televisions LED displays land phone lines e mail addresses fax machines pagers digital displays handheld wireless devices such as PDAs and Blackberries instant messaging devices TTY TDD devices webpages and other similar devices.

The present system can be used to contact users in the case of emergency conditions such as storms or fire and in the case of informational situations such as school closings. Additionally terrorist threat levels can be transmitted using the present system.

The system can be used to advise office building superintendents and users in the buildings such as high rise office buildings concerning building condition updates parking garage conditions disabled vehicle conditions cars with headlights that have been left on and similar situations.

The present system can be used within the sports industry such as to facilitate children s soccer games or Major League Baseball games. The system can be used to update fans regarding changed game times or weather conditions that affect a game start. The system can also be used to update the status of wins and losses on a real time basis to user contact devices of fans and parents.

The present embodiments provide a system that is capable of high speed notification and response in which information is accessed and stored in a dynamic information database. The system can be used to contact users automatically when specific conditions arise or to contact users when a contact is initiated by an administrator. The system can be used to contact a large number of users in a systematic manner based upon predetermined priorities.

The present embodiments can be used save lives by notifying large groups of individuals concerning very dangerous situations quickly through multiple different contact devices. The system can be used to stop rumors or erroneous information indicating that a situation is safe. This system can prevent panic and chaos by sending a consistent message to all users.

The embodied system provides other benefits such as non emergent general information updates. For example a message can be sent such as bring a flower to your teacher tomorrow because it is her birthday to all parents of students of a second grade teacher.

The present system includes an administrator interface for preparing and transmitting messages over a network from an administrator to at least one group of users. Each member of the group is contemplated to have at least one user contact device. Messages are transmit using user selected priority information.

Groups of users can include police departments commercial property managers companies parents of children fire departments school systems adults security companies donors utility customers one or more branches of the military trade show attendees voters parishioners union organizations such as the United Auto Workers Union union members other similar groups and individuals and combinations thereof.

The system further includes a dynamic information database which is used to store user contact data for each member of the group. The user contact data can include an user name address phone number an user device address social security number account code an instant message address a text message address and combinations thereof. The user contact data can also include user contact device information and user selected priority information which indicates a contact order for each contact device of a user.

It is contemplated that the user selected priority information can indicate which user contact devices of a specified user are to be contacted before other user contact devices of the specified user. For example a user could identify a preference that his or her work telephone be contacted before contacting the user s home telephone.

User contact devices can include handheld wireless devices wireless phones land phones e mail addresses fax machines pagers digital displays such as a television a computer network LED displays such as a traffic display Jumbotron or banner display webpages TTY TDD devices instant messaging devices and combinations thereof.

Additionally user selected grouping information which includes at least one group associated with each user contact device is stored in the dynamic information database. Groups associated with each user contact device can include for example all consumers of electric power from Reliant Power Company in Houston Tex.

The dynamic information database can also store response data which corresponds to user response information that indicates receipt of a message by a user contact device or when insufficient user contact device information exists to contact one or more user contact devices.

For example a transmitted message can be a request for updated contact device information and user selected priority information and a user contact device can be used to respond to the message. The response can provide updated contact device information as well as updated user selected priority information.

The dynamic information database can be a SQL database a MySQL database an Oracle database another similar industry standard database or combinations thereof.

In an embodiment the present system can include an encryption module in communication with the dynamic information database for encrypting the dynamic information database. The dynamic information database can have one or more encryption keys such as a 1024 bit AES encryption key.

In an embodiment installing the dynamic information database can be installed on a solid state hard drive server.

The administrator interface can be used to form at least one message. The one or more messages can include prewritten or prerecorded messages stored in the dynamic information database for subsequent use by the administrator. The prerecorded message can be an audio or video recording. The messages can also include custom messages for any condition or situation.

The administrator interface can be adapted to transmit one or more messages at preset timed intervals to one or more user contact devices.

The administrator interface can have a processor with data storage and computer instructions for creating custom messages.

The administrator interface can be used for creating real time customized or predefined messages for transmission by an administrator.

In an embodiment the message can have a designation indicating the priority of the message such as low priority general priority significant priority high priority and severe priority.

In another contemplated embodiment the system can include a document uploaded to a website. The message can include a link to the document. The system can include computer instructions that prevent viewing of the document after the document has been viewed a preset number of times. For example the computer instructions could prevent viewing of the linked message after a user has viewed the website 10 times. The user would need to seek approval of the administrator to view the linked website after the predefined number of viewings has been exceeded.

In a contemplated embodiment the message can means for include activation of an audio alarm such as a tone bell siren spoken audio message or other similar audio alarms a visual alarm such as a blinking light or visual text message a designated ring tone or combinations thereof. The designated ring tone can be selected by the user or the manufacturer of the contact device.

It is also contemplated that in an embodiment the message can include a survey such as a series of two or more questions requesting a user response. Questions can relate to satisfaction of the user relating to services provided by the administrator preferences for political candidates or any other type of information related or unrelated to the present system. Survey responses can be stored in the dynamic information database and can optionally be used to generate one or more reports.

The administrator interface can be adapted for communication with a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network an asynchronous transfer mode network a synchronous optical network a call center interface a voice mail interface a satellite network a wireless network a WIFI network or a WiMax network other similar interfaces and systems or combinations thereof.

An administrator initiates distribution of the message using the user selected grouping information and the user selected priority information. The user selected priority information can be used to ensure that a critical user is contacted before a non critical user.

After the transmission of the message to the user contact device the administrator interface can be adapted to receive a response from one or more user contact devices.

For example when the administrator interface first fails to contact a user on a first priority contact device such as the telephone number 713 862 9090 an error in transmission message can be transmit back to the administrator interface. The dynamic information database can then provide instructions to transmit a request for updated user contact device information to a second user contact device such as the e mail address Darren Techradium.com. The user can then see the message and correct the erroneous phone number by transmitting a response containing the correct phone number 713 862 9091. It is contemplated that a request to update user contact device information can be sent to third or fourth user contact devices in sequence or simultaneously. In another contemplated embodiment one or more users can be permitted to update user contact data from a user contact device at any time.

It is further contemplated that the reply can include a replay response from one or more user contact devices requesting the administrator interface to retransmit a message. For example the message could prompt the user to Press 1 if the user wants to hear this message again. The administrator interface could have a function which stores messages which can be sent to the user contact devices repeatedly. The repeated transmission can be based on a predefined interval or the message can be selectively sent by the administrator when the transmission message is necessary.

The dynamic information database be adapted to when activated by a replay or retransmission request cause the instant retransmission of one or more messages sent to the user based on the message time stamp.

For example a request for retransmission can be sent after a user receives an emergency message. A processor in communication with the administrator interface can locate the user in the dynamic information database search messages sent to that particular user retrieve the last message sent to the user and retransmit or play the message at that moment in time instantly at the moment of the request without requiring the user to enter any passcodes or additional commands. This feature is very useful when time is of the essence or when the user is injured or in a dangerous situation.

It is also contemplated that the present method can include a searchable list of the last message sent to one or more user contact devices in the dynamic information database.

An administrator can be a person a computer a digital notification and response system an analog emergency notification system a mass notification system such as a public notification system a telephone emergency alert system an e mail emergency alert system an instant messaging alert system a streaming media alert system which can be video or another digital content stream an application programming interface or any combinations thereof. An application programming interface can control the administrator interface and provide additional code or instructions to the administrator interface for creating and transmitting messages to user contact devices. The instructions can be XML code flat text file or similar code. The application programming interface would receive information from a tool developed by a third party company and deploy the use of the tool.

In an embodiment computer instructions in the dynamic information database can be used to classify one or more administrators to have restricted access to information in the dynamic information database the administrator interface or combinations thereof. This embodiment can be of particular use when it is desirable to allow agents of administrators to access the dynamic information database or when multiple administrators responsible for separate groups of users use a single notification and response system to transmit messages to their specific groups of users without accessing information on user groups for which they are not responsible.

It is contemplated that the messages can be transmit through at least two industry standard gateways simultaneously. Industry standard protocols can include a Megaco H.248 protocol simple message transfer protocol SMTP a short message service SMS protocol a multimedia message service MMS protocol an enhanced message service EMS protocol a media gateway control protocol MGCP a SIP protocol a H.323 protocol an ISDN protocol a PSTN protocol a SMS MMS gateway and combinations thereof.

In an embodiment of the system a third party can communicate with a processor in communication with the dynamic information database. The third party can communicate with the processor using the administrator interface. The third party can instruct the to perform a sequence of steps that calls at least one first responder to action to investigate a problem. The problem can be a terrorist problem a security problem a bomb threat or other emergency situations. The system can act like a tip line to the security office.

In a contemplated embodiment the present system can include computer instructions to instruct at least one processor controlling the administrator interface to only transmit one or more messages within a predefined time interval. The system can further include a manual override to suppress the processor from complying with the computer instructions allowing messages to be sent outside of the predefined time interval or causing messages not to be sent during the predefined time interval.

In a contemplated embodiment the present system can include text file to sound file converter such as Nuance RealSpeak technology Microsoft text to speech software Speech server text to speech software from AT T Natural Voices Loguendeo or combinations thereof for transforming messages from text files to sound files. This embodiment allows users to receive sound messages through a telephone or a contact device having a speaker which is of great benefit to users who cannot afford computers cellular telephones or other devices having textual displays or to users who live in areas where wireless service or internet access is limited or non existent. This embodiment is also especially beneficial for enabling users having impaired vision to receive notification in the form of sound messages.

It is also contemplated that a text to sound file converter can be used to allow spoken words from an administrator or agent authorized by the administrator to be transmit as text sound or combinations thereof.

In an embodiment a language converter such as Systrans or Babel Fish or other commercially available language converters can be used to translate the message to a user contact device to a language selected by the user.

The present system can also include in an embodiment reporting information stored in the dynamic information database for generating a report. Reporting information can include dates and times when one or more messages were sent dates and times one or more messages were received content of messages recipients of one or more messages recipient information for one or more messages and combinations thereof. The report can be a customized report such as a report identifying all user contact devices having a user answer.

In an embodiment the present system can include one or more new groups of users formed by the administrator interface using user contact data and instruction from the administrator.

The administrator interface can also be used to remove duplicate user contact devices the user contact data prior to transmitting messages. For example a duplicate user contact device could be a home telephone number where both a husband and a wife are users.

Other similar administrative and maintenance functions relating to the information in the dynamic information database are also contemplated.

The present system can also include a training mode with the administrator interface. The training mode is contemplated to enable administrators to train on the digital notification and response system without transmitting messages. This embodiment is especially beneficial for ensuring that messages are effectively and properly transmitted by trained administrators during times of emergency.

In an embodiment the present system can include resorted user contact devices sorted based on administrator selected user contact data. A message can be transmitted to the user contact devices that have been resorted. It is contemplated that resorting the user contact devices can include associating one or more user contact devices with different groups altering the priority information for one or more user contact devices ordering each user contact device within one or more groups by a selected item of user contact data such as the type of contact device.

The message transmitted to the resorted user contact devices can indicate any changes that have been made or the message can indicate only that resorting has occurred.

It is also contemplated that messages and responses can be transmitted simultaneously to multiple devices of a single individual over one or multiple networks in multiple languages.

The message is received by the at least one user contact device and the at least one user contact device can transmit a response through the industry standard gateway protocols to the dynamic information database.

User contact data for multiple users such as all members of a neighborhood home owners association can be stored in a dynamic information database such as an Oracle database. The user contact data can include the names and addresses of each user as well as user contact device information such as a telephone number e mail address or IP address of each user s user contact device s . User contact devices can include home telephones business telephones cellular telephones e mail addresses one or more computers or handheld wireless devices and other similar devices.

User selected priority information is also in the dynamic information database which includes a contact order for each user contact device. For example one user may indicate a preference for being contacted using his home telephone before using his e mail address. Each user can indicate a differing preference for the order in which his or her contact devices are to be contacted and the contact order can be stored in the dynamic information database.

Additionally the dynamic information database includes user selected grouping information which classifies each user into one or more groups such as members of the home owner s association who are behind on their association dues or members of the home owner s association who reside in a flood zone.

During an emergent situation such as an impending flood in the neighborhood an administrator such as the head of the home owner s association can use his computer to access the association website which in this example can function as the administrator interface. The administrator can input a message to the computer such as Major flooding is expected this evening beginning at 10 00 PM. All residents on Charter Drive are advised to evacuate. All other residents are urged to remove all valuable belongings from basements and lower floors of their homes and to expect power outages. 

The administrator can then initiate distribution of the message which will be transmitted over a network such as the internet or an intranet specific to homes in the home owner s association using the user selected grouping information and user selected priority information. The user selected priority information is used to ensure that a critical user is contacted before a non critical user.

For example users who reside in a flood zone can be grouped as critical users and can receive the message before other users. It is also contemplated that emergency response personnel can be grouped as critical users and receive the message prior to non critical users.

The message is transmit through two industry standard gateways such as a SMTP and a SIP gateway simultaneously. This redundancy maximizes the chance that the message will reach each user.

Each contacted user contact device can transmit a response upon receiving the message which can be an audio tone file a visual response or a textual response through the two industry standard gateways and the response can be stored in the dynamic information database. Owners of user contact devices that fail to respond to the message can be contacted directly.

With reference to the figures examples an embodiment of a digital notification and response system wherein an administrator such as a city official can transmit one or more messages such as emergency messages relating to severe weather to one or more user contact devices through such as telephones pagers e mail addresses or handheld wireless devices using an administrator interface which can be any type of computer or handheld device having an interface for communicating with a network. The user contact devices can associated with groups of users.

The administrator can be a person a computer an analog emergency notification system or another digital notification and response system or the like. The administrator interacts with the administrator interface to begin the process of sending a message to the user contact devices through . The administrator interface can be in communication with a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network an asynchronous transfer mode network a synchronous optical network a call center interface a voice mail interface a wireless network a satellite network or other similar means to transmit a message to numerous contacts.

The message can be a text message a numerical message one or more images or a combination of these. The message can be encoded. The message can include a designation that identifies the importance the message. Examples of these designations include low priority general priority significant priority high priority and severe priority. The designations can coincide with the Homeland Security s five color system. For example the designations can be color coded such as green for a low priority message blue for a preparedness message or general priority message yellow for a cautionary message such as a significant priority orange for an emergency message or high priority message or red for a critical message with a severe priority. These priority levels can be customized to corporate levels of emergencies or they can be tailored to standards for a particular industry like Building owners and managers standards codes for risks or emergencies in a building.

As seen in the message is transmitted to one or more user contact devices through . Examples of usable user contact devices include handheld wireless devices wireless phones land phones e mail addresses digital displays and LED display fax machines pagers instant messenger cellular telephones instant messaging devices tty tdd devices webpages and other similar devices.

The message is stored on a dynamic information database such as a SQL database. The message can be a prewritten message stored in the database for subsequent use by the administrator or can be generated from the dynamic information database based upon inputs from the administrator and transmitted using the administrator interface.

The user contact data in the dynamic information database includes user contact information user selected priority information and user selected language for the message . The user contact data includes information associated with the user of the user contact device. The user within the scope of this application is a person that can receive a message send a message respond to a message or combinations thereof. Examples of users include a company employees of company an individual a parent of a child a fire department a coach of a youth sports team a team manager of a youth sports team the manager of a major league sports team sports team representative mom or dad of a sports team player a police department a commercial property manager a school system an adult a security company or combinations thereof.

The user contact information includes information concerning both the user contact device and the user. The user contact information can include an e mail address an internet protocol IP address a phone number and combinations thereof. The user contact information can further include the user s name the user s address the user s phone number the user s device address the user s social security number an account code and combinations thereof. Each user contact device can include information that is unique to each individual user contact device or can include information that is common to all user contact devices. For example a serial number for a cell phone a mac address for an Ethernet card and other similar information can be included.

The user contact data further includes user selected priority information . The user selected priority information is used to indicate a contact order for various user devices of the user. The contact order is used to direct the order in which the dynamic information database DID transmits a message to the user contact devices through .

The user contact data can include information beyond the examples listed in order to aid the DID in contacting the user contact devices.

Continuing with the user selected grouping information in the dynamic information database is used to group users together into separable and identifiable groups for ease of contact by an administrator. The user selected grouping information can be used to define at least one group.

User can be a group of users associated with contact devices and which can represent multiple user contact devices. User can be a group of users associated with contact devices and which can represent multiple contact devices. User can be a group of users associated with contact devices and which can represent multiple contact devices. By grouping the users the system provides the benefit of more efficient delivery of information without having to treat each user individually. Grouping more efficiently defines message recipients which speeds the delivery of the message.

The user selected grouping information includes a predefined group identified in the dynamic information database. The predefined group can be identified by the administrator or by another user in advance to sending the message. Examples of groupings include parents of a second grade class an alumni class from a specific year members of the Bad News Tigers little league soccer team all Tuesday night home game subscribers to a certain major league baseball team executives of a given company hazmat response teams and other similar groupings.

The user selected grouping information further includes a priority order for contacting a user within the group . The priority order directs the administrator interface as to the order in which the interface should contact the individual contact devices with the message. The priority order provides the benefit of ensuring that the most critical users receive the message first in case time is not available to contact all of the users. The priority order also provides the benefit that all users get contacted with equal priority rather than a discriminating message delivery priority. The priority order guarantees that all users get contacted to on a preferred device first.

The response data in the dynamic information database is directed towards information based upon whether the user contact device and in turn the user received the message. The response data includes user response information that indicates whether the user through has received the message . The user response information is gathered by the dynamic information database . The response data further includes error in response information that indicates the user contact data is insufficient and can not be delivered properly. The error in response information can also indicate that an email address or phone number is simply invalid.

Returning to the administrator can initiate a distribution of one or more messages . The system can be initiated automatically. Fire alarms when set off can automatically alert the system and then the system can automatically advise a user. Another example is that the system can tie to a tracking system so that if a child misses certain periods of school the system can advise the parent that the student is missing those classes.

The system uses the information in the dynamic information database namely the user selected grouping information user selected priority information and the priority order to determine who to contact and in what order.

The message is transmitted through at least two industry standard gateways and simultaneously. By transmitting the message through numerous gateways the system provides redundancy in order to ensure the message is relayed to the users. An example of an industry standard gateway is a SMTP gateway a SIP an H.323 an ISDN gateway a PSTN gateway a softswitch or the like. The priority order directs the administrator interface to contact a first group of user contact devices and indicated as a first contact. After all of the user contact devices in the first contact have received the message the priority order directs the administrator interface to contact a second group of user contact devices and indicated as a second contact. Then the administrator interface continues to contact user contact devices and based on the priority order until all user contact devices are reached and a response is provided from the user contact devices.

Once the message is received by a user contact device the user contact device through transmits a response back through the industry standard gateways and to the dynamic information database . The dynamic information database stores the responses and the unique address of each user contact device.

In an alternative embodiment the system can include reporting information in order to generate reports based upon information in the dynamic information database . The reports can be generated by the administrator the user a group or combinations thereof. The reports can include a date the message was sent such as Sep. 12 2007 a time the message was sent such as 3 32 PM a date the message was received such as Sep. 12 2007 a time the message was received such as 3 36 PM content of the message which can include any part or the entirety of the message a recipient of the message which can include a user name recipient information related to the recipient of the message such as a user address telephone number e mail address and or other similar information and combinations thereof. Other examples include the name of the person who received the message a copy of the voice mail a time when an e mail was accessed the time when a fax is printed and so on. The administrator can create custom designed reports or standard reports can be generated from the dynamic information database for use by the administrator.

In an alternative embodiment the system can include a language converter such as Systrans or Babelfish to translate a text message to second language. The language converter is often referred to as a text translator. For example the language converter can convert the message from English to a second language such as Korean Chinese Vietnamese French English Spanish Italian Norwegian Swedish German Japanese Russian or Portuguese. The language converter is beneficial because not all users speak the same language and this breaks down the communication between groups of people by language. The system allows the user to designate a specific language in which to receive the message. The chosen language is stored in the dynamic information database with the user contact data .

In an alternative embodiment the system can include a text to sound file converter such as Microsoft Speech Server . The text to sound file converter can be used to translate a message from text to a sound file. The text to sound file converter is beneficial because it enables delivery of the message consistently using the same voice with the same accent same dynamic and same delivery speed. The text to sound file converter enables individuals with disabilities namely visual impairment to also receive the consistent message.

The embodiments have been described in detail with particular reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the scope of the embodiments especially to those skilled in the art.

