---

title: Application package to automatically identify some single stranded RNA viruses from characteristic residues of capsid protein or nucleotide sequences
abstract: A system implemented on a computer is disclosed for automatically identifying strains of partial or complete capsid sequences of picorna and caliciviruses, two of the most highly diverse ssRNA virus families.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07822782&OS=07822782&RS=07822782
owner: The University of Houston System
number: 07822782
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070921
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 846 206 filed 21 Sep. 2006 Sep. 21 2006 .

The specification includes a listing of a representative program for implementing the methods of this invention.

Governmental entities may have certain rights in and to the contents of this application due to funding from the Texas Learning and Computational Center TLCC grants from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Office of Exploratory Research NNJ04HF43G and the Department of Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency W81XWH 05 2 0040 .

The present invention relates to a software product that uses unique characterizing residues to automatically identify strains of partial or complete capsid sequences of picorna viruses and calici viruses two of the most highly diverse single stranded RNA ssRNA virus families.

More particularly the present invention relates to a computer program product stored on a computer readable medium for predicting strains of some ssRNA viruses from their limited sequence data said computer product including a graphical user interface GUI code operable to carry out all data input output I O operations storage codes operable to store virus sequence databases in the form of multiple data arrays containing information about phylogenetic trees sequence groups and characteristic residues of these groups sequence comparison codes operable to compare input virus sequences with the stored database sequences on a residue by residue basis identification codes operable to identify the strains of input virus sequences based on comparisons iii and subsequent decision making algorithms.

Currently no equipments or kits can unambiguously distinguish among a particularly important class of viruses that cause alarming epidemic outbreaks all over the world and consequently pose high bio terrorism related threats. This class comprises of the single stranded RNA ssRNA viruses which include diverse virus families ranging from those that cause flu including the cruise ship flu and the bird flu to the AIDS causing viruses. The main difficulty in distinguishing among these viruses and detecting them lies in their molecular details. As the name suggests each of these viruses consists of a single genomic RNA strand enclosed within a protein shell called the capsid. This encapsidated RNA strand undergoes rapid sequence mutations to generate a large number of virus strains that are often associated with different epidemic outbreaks. Sequence differences among these strains are so subtle and intricate that they appear to be almost random. There are no reliable methods to unambiguously distinguish among the strains by systematically tracking these variations. Most often the capsid sequences show the maximum variations relative to the other genomic regions for a given ssRNA virus families. This is mainly because the capsid residues undergo most mutations in response to host immunity. Consequently capsid sequences provide the best regions to identify strains as they truly represent the diversity of ssRNA virus families. Thus any reliable method to uniquely identify the ssRNA virus strains would be based on capsid sequences even though the problem of strain identification on the basis of these sequences may appear intractable.

Two diagnostic methods are most widely used to detect ssRNA viruses. One of them relies on immuno based techniques while the other is based on reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction RT PCR assays. The immuno based assays distinguish strains on the basis of epitope differences in the capsid protein while the RT PCR based assays use nucleotide primers to amplify differences in the viral genome. However experimental constraints limit the ability of both of these assays in distinguishing among the strains. Most often these methods are useful in detecting only significant sequence differences but they fail to detect subtle sequence variations among the strains which occurs for example when the sequence identity falls to approximately 10 or below as in the case of noroviruses

Accurate strain recognition in uncharacterized target capsid sequences is essential in understanding the epidemiology and diagnostics of these viruses and for efficient vaccine development. Experimental techniques to detect ssRNA virus strains are inadequate when the number of strains are very large as is the case with picornaviruses and caliciviruses or the strains are non cultivable like those of the human caliciviruses. Additionally existing homology comparison based computational methods to recognize strains are of limited use as they most often rely on similarity scores between target sequences and sequences of homology matched reference strains. Methods based on such scores are often time consuming and ambiguous especially if only partial target sequences are available or if different ssRNA virus families are jointly analyzed. In such cases knowledge of residues that uniquely distinguish among known reference strains is critical for rapid and unambiguous strain recognition of target capsid sequences. Conventional sequence comparisons are unable to identify such capsid residues due to high sequence divergence among the ssRNA virus reference strains. Consequently automated general methods to predict strains from sequence data of such viruses on the basis of strain distinguishing residues are not available.

One of the main challenges therefore in making efficient detection systems for ssRNA viruses is to devise methods to unambiguously distinguish subtle sequence variations among the different ssRNA virus strains using stain distinguishing residues. This challenge becomes significantly tough when only partial sequences of these viruses are available. The only feasible way to address this problem is through computational techniques. However all such known techniques are based on criteria that allow them to distinguish only significantly different strains. In contrast the intellectual property described here is a software product based on different computational criteria. The product successfully demonstrates a way to distinguish among very closely related virus strains of two important ssRNA virus families. The only requirements of the software are the availability of accurately known complete or partial genomic or protein capsid sequences of these viruses. Given the rapidly improving sequencing techniques this should not be a major problem and it should therefore be possible to design and manufacture efficient ssRNA virus detection systems based on the described software. It is anticipated that the software will reduce both time and costs in identifying closely related ssRNA viruses from their sequences by substantially reducing the throughput time.

Most non bacterial epidemic outbreaks are caused by single stranded RNA ssRNA viruses. Typically these viruses undergo rapid genetic mutations that result in a large and dynamic population diversity seen as different virus strains utilizing multiple hosts 1 . Caliciviruses and picornaviruses are two of the most highly divergent ssRNA virus families each containing several hundred reference strains showing very low sequence identity even within families 2 4 . The software determines relationships among the strains using a unique algorithm in contrast to existing methods. Relationships among the strains are usually inferred through conventional homology based comparisons using complete capsid sequences or other genomic regions. These comparisons seek to identify clusters of similar sequences that comprise the major sequence groups genogroups or genera and their sub groups leading to various diagnostics 5 16 and classification schemes for these viruses.

The four calicivirus genera noroviruses sapoviruses lagoviruses and vesiviruses 3 4 17 and the nine picornavirus genera apthoviruses cardioviruses enteroviruses erboviruses hepatoviruses kobuviruses parechoviruses rhinoviruses and teschoviruses 2 are classified using such schemes 2 4 . Further divisions of these genera reflect more detailed sequence relatedness among these viruses. For example among the diverse caliciviruses 17 noroviruses are divided into two genogroups GI and GII 18 20 each of which contains seven sequence clusters GI.1 GI.7 and GII.1 GII.7 4 sapovirus sequences are grouped into 2 5 genogroups each of which contains several clusters 2 23 vesivirus sequences are known to contain at least 40 immune response related antigenic serotypes and lagovirus sequences cluster into proposed sero specific groups 24 . Similarly classification of the 9 picornavirus genera into species each of which consists of several serotypes 2 25 reflects finer relations among these virus sequences Table 1 .

Strain and genogroup predictions in uncharacterized target sequences of calici and picornaviruses depend critically on their sequence relationships. Most often such predictions use conventional homology comparisons between the target and a large number of known reference sequences. However there are difficulties in these approaches when applied to caliciviruses. Most prediction methods for these viruses are based on sequence similarity cut off values that are arbitrarily derived from the homology based sequence comparisons 19 . Although recent reports indicate statistically significant estimation of such cut off values in distinguishing the major norovirus genogroups 33 no uniform criteria exist to accurately estimate these values for the other caliciviruses. In addition homology based sequence similarity cut off values are even more difficult to estimate when different virus genera need to be analyzed together in situations for example where the genus of the target sequences may not be known. These difficulties are compounded while determining the strains of partial sequences mainly because experimental considerations usually restrict these partial sequences to smaller and relatively more conserved regions 15 19 34 37 whose comparisons may often introduce ambiguities in strain identification.

Even if complete sequences of target virus capsids are compared 33 38 strain determination using homology based similarity scores is still computationally challenging. This is because comparisons of a large number of complete capsid sequences demands significant computation time which increases exponentially with increasing sequence lengths and the number of sequences that are compared together. Such limitations may severely reduce the number of usable reference capsid sequences thereby creating major computational bottlenecks.

Recent methods to genotype sequences belonging to certain virus families 39 suggest ways to reduce such bottlenecks. These methods efficiently align sliding windows of target sequences with databases of reference sequences and genotype the target sequences essentially using highest overall alignment scores. However such methods primarily designed to detect recombination breakpoints within virus genomes critically depend on parameters such as window sizes and choice of reference sequences. Smaller windows may significantly increase the computation time while larger windows may overlook fine sequence variations. Similarly incorrect choices of reference sequences may introduce possible error inducing biases. Time consuming repetitive runs using different trial settings of these parameters may be necessary to correctly genotype virus strains in such cases 39 .

Thus strain recognition methods using sequence identity based scores have not been easily amenable to reliable and robust automation across ssRNA virus families. Based on earlier analysis of noroviruses 40 we describe here the generalized implementation of a residue wise comparison based approach to automate strain predictions in complete and partial amino acid capsid sequences of calici and picornaviruses.

The present invention provides a software product implemented on a computer or a distributed computer environment such as an intranet e.g. secure institution corporate etc. network or an internet e.g. the world wide web that uses unique characterizing residues to automatically identify strains of partial or complete sequences of pathogens or nonpathogens where the sequences can be nucleic acid sequence DNA RNA DNA RNA hybrids RNA protein hybrids DNA protein hybrids or any other biomolecules that include a sequencable nucleotide moiety proteins or any other biomolecule that includes a sequence of monomers that is unique to an organism or virus e.g. a pathogen. These residues are possible adaptive mutation sites in the pathogens considered.

The present invention provides a software product implemented on a computer or a distributed computer environment such as an intranet e.g. secure institution corporate etc. network or an internet e.g. the world wide web that uses unique characterizing residues to automatically identify strains of partial or complete capsid sequences of picorna and caliciviruses two of the most highly diverse ssRNA virus families.

The present invention also provides a computer program product stored on a computer readable medium for predicting strains of some single stranded RNA viruses from their limited sequence data the computer product including a graphical user interface GUI code operable to carry out all data input output I O operations a storage code operable to store pathogen sequences such as viral sequences in one sequence database or a plurality of sequence database in the form of multiple data arrays containing information about phylogenetic trees sequence groups and characteristic residues of these groups a sequence comparison code operable to compare input sequences such as viral sequences with the stored database sequences on a residue by residue basis an identification code operable to identify the strains of the input sequences such as viral sequences based on comparisons iii and subsequent decision making algorithms.

The present invention also provides a method of evaluating comparisons including the steps of identifying tree branches containing maximum number of characteristic residue matches obtained from comparisons identifying tree branches to carry out further searches after identifying maximally matching tree branches identifying tree branches to carry out further searches in case there are no unique maximally matching tree branches and confirming that the chosen maximally matching tree branches do not lead to ambiguous comparisons.

The inventors have found that a software product can be constructed and implemented on or in computer or a distributed computer network where the software product encodes an unique method for characterizing residues constructed to automatically identify strains of partial or complete sequences of pathogens. The product includes databases of pathogen residues that uniquely characterize strains of the pathogens and were created by constructing partitioned phylogenetic trees of available complete capsid sequences of these viruses. Partition wise comparisons of the database residues with the corresponding residues of complete and partial sequences of unknown pathogens results in correct strain identification for all pathogens for which data are stored in the software database. A Java based user friendly graphical console interfaced with Perl coded computational parts ensures high portability of the software. The package has been successfully tested on MS Windows XP and the Linux and UNIX platforms. The code used in this implementation is attached as Appendix 1.

The inventors have found that a software product that uses unique characterizing residues can be constructed to automatically identify strains of partial or complete capsid sequences of picoma and caliciviruses two of the most highly diverse ssRNA virus families. The software is an efficient implementation of an algorithm outlined in earlier by on of the inventors in structure based phylogenic analysis of some human calicivirus sequences. Databases of capsid residues that uniquely characterize strains of picoma and caliciviruses were created by constructing partitioned phylogenetic trees of available complete capsid sequences of these viruses. Partition wise comparisons of the database residues with the corresponding residues of more than 300 complete and partial sequences of these viruses resulted in correct strain identification for all of these sequences.

In one embodiment the present invention relates to creating databases of capsid residues uniquely distinguishing among virus reference strains and using these databases to automatically predict strains of other closely resembling target sequences. The method is demonstrated for complete and partial capsid sequences of calici and picornaviruses which are two of the most highly divergent ssRNA virus families and therefore especially difficult to unambiguously identify using a uniform method.

The method relies on creating databases of capsid residues that uniquely distinguish among the reference calici and picornavirus sequences. Residue wise comparisons of the complete or partial input target sequences with the databases yield those reference sequences that are closest to the target sequences. Such reference sequences in turn yield the genogroup and other classification characteristics of the target sequences thereby identifying their strains.

Following the procedure described earlier 40 evolutionary trace 41 based partitioned phylogenetic trees were constructed for each of the 4 calicivirus genera and the 9 picornavirus genera using a large number of complete capsid sequences from public domain databases 25 42 . These sequences will be called the reference sequences and the corresponding trees will be called the reference or the genus trees as each such reference tree represents a calici or a picornavirus genus.

By sieving the reference sequences of a genus tree through similarity filters sequence groups each of which contains several similar reference sequences were created in every partition of the tree. Examples of such sequence groups are illustrated for a hypothetical representative tree . Starting from the root node the partition 1 contains all of the aligned sequences. Sequence comparisons in this partition therefore are equivalent to conventional sequence comparisons that consider all of the sequences together. Partitions 2 and 3 are identical and contain the sequence groups s1 s11 and s12 belonging to nodes A and B respectively. Similarly the two nodes C and D belong to partition 4 while nodes E and F belong to partition 5. Node C of partition 4 contains sequence groups s1 and s2 while node D of the same partition contains nine s3 s11 of the remaining groups. Similarly the eight groups s3 s10 in partition 5 belong to node E while group s11 belongs to node F in the same partition . Henceforth sequence clusters or sequence groups will be referred to simply as groups.

For each genus tree partition wise comparisons among the different groups identified characteristic residues that are conserved within each group but not among the different groups of the partition. For example characteristic residue X1 at location 1 of partition 2 of a given tree may be a conserved Ala for Group A of node A in contrast to a conserved Gly X1 for Group B of node B . Such residues were generated for each genus tree following the procedure described earlier 40 .

Entire information about the genus trees including their partitions all the sequence groups for each partition along with all characteristic residues taken group wise were stored in multiple 2 dimensional arrays that formed the calici and the picornavirus databases.

To identify the strain of the input query target sequence whose genus is known the program matches the target residues with the characteristic residues of each group of a given partition stored in the appropriate genus database. This is done by first aligning the target sequence with a reference sequence of the database. Then starting with the second partition from the root partition 2 in each characteristic residue of a given group in this partition is compared with the target residue at the corresponding location. Such comparisons are carried out for all the groups of this partition. The group showing the maximum number of matches is accepted by the program as the most probable sequence cluster resembling the input target sequence in that partition.

The program proceeds to the next partition where instead of similarly testing all the groups present in the partition the program tests only those groups that are directly tree linked with the most recently accepted group. This considerably reduces the number of groups to be searched in the next partition. The process continues until all partitions have been searched. Testing only a limited number of connected groups per partition guarantees an optimal tree search time thereby making the program quite efficient.

Within a given partition input target sequence residues once matched are flagged as marked and are never used again for residue matching in subsequent partitions. Exceptions to the flagging procedure are carried out only in case of ambiguities. For example if all of the groups in a partition show an identical number of characteristic residue matches an ambiguity is declared and no match is flagged. This ensures that all such matched residues of the input sequence are available again for matching purposes in subsequent partitions thereby helping resolve the ambiguity. Ambiguities may also occur when all groups within a given partition show no matches with the input sequence or if two successive partitions show identical numbers of characteristic residue matches. In both these cases the program ignores the ambiguous partition s and proceeds to the next one without marking any residue at all. This allows all of the unmarked residues in the current partition to be compared again in subsequent partitions.

To illustrate the method let us assume that the input sequence corresponds to a known genus whose characteristic residues X1 X2 and X3 for partition 2 are Ala Pro and Ser respectively for group A and the corresponding group B residues X1 X2 and X3 are Gly Thr and Met respectively . If the aligned target sequence shows more matches for X1 X2 and X3 of group A in comparison with that of X1 X2 and X3 of group B it implies that the input sequence belongs to group A in partition 2 and not to group B. Thus residues X1 X2 and X3 are flagged and comparisons in subsequent partitions follow along those branches that are connected to group A . The program therefore proceeds to groups C and D in partition 4 ignoring partition 3 as it is identical to the previous partition 2 .

In partition 4 if both groups C and D show equal number of matches i.e. say X4 and X4 are both Trp and X5 and X5 are both Leu and the aligned target sequence also contains Trp and Leu at these locations then the program will not flag these characteristic residues but will instead carry them over to partition 5 where these residues will again be matched in groups E and F to determine which of these two groups maximally matches the target sequence. Similar comparisons in subsequent partitions 6 10 unambiguously identify the database strain that most closely resembles the input target sequence thereby yielding its strain characteristics.

In case the genus of the target sequence is not known this sequence is first compared with groups of representative reference sequences 

Partition wise comparisons allow RECOVIR to detect abrupt changes in phylogenetic sequence groupings among different trees. Assuming that absence of recombination creates similar phylogenetic relationships among sequences from different regions of multiple sequence alignments these abrupt changes indicate nodes that may possibly contain recombination sites. Such abrupt changes are shown schematically using a pair of hypothetical trees . These trees may represent for example two different genomic regions of the same virus strains. A simple example of incongruence has artificially been built in by interchanging sequence group s1 and s10 between the two trees. Consequently sequence groups belonging to nodes A and B may be distinguished by the same set of residues X1 X2 X3 and X1 X2 X3 in both the trees. However subsequent nodes C D E and F have different strain distinguishing residues up to partition 5 of the two trees that correspond to the two genomic parts being compared . For example nodes C and D are distinguished by residues X4 X5 X6 and X4 X5 X6 in one part of the genome and by Y4 Y5 Y6 and Y4 Y5 Y6 in the other genome part . Similarly nodes E and F are distinguished by residues X7 X8 X9 and X7 X8 X9 in one part of the genome and by Y7 Y8 Y9 and Y7 Y8 Y9 in the other genome part . Systematic node wise comparisons of such strain distinguishing residues in all of the partitions P2 P10 clearly show the genomic regions that result in the incongruence between the two trees and thus indicate parent strains along with their possible recombination or spontaneous mutation sites. Detection of these sites and the corresponding parent strains is done manually at present as an automated version of this feature has not yet been built into the software.

The program was initially validated by identifying the closest strains for five noro and five enteroviruses of known genera from their respective complete and partial amino acid sequences of the capsids Table 2 . These viruses were chosen because of their wide sequence divergence and their large number of strains or serotypes many of which have multiple sequences available in public databases. The enteroviruses included the complete VP1 sequences of Poliovirus 2 serotype human enterovirus HEV B including the Coxsackie viruses HEV D serotype and the simian enteroviruses.

The program was then further validated using more than 200 complete and partial sequences of different caliciviruses and more than 100 such picornavirus sequences. Among the calicivirus sequences nearly 120 sequences were those of noroviruses with the remaining ones being those of other caliciviruses. Similarly in the case of picornavirus sequences nearly 50 were enterovirus partial sequences including those of echoviruses and of other HEV B serotypes 25 while the remaining sequences were chosen from the other picornavirus genera and species Table 1 .

Most of the partial sequences were randomly chosen from different regions of the capsid with the sequence lengths being only 20 of the sizes of the corresponding complete capsid sequences. All of the noro and enterovirus sequences were selected from the NCBI databases 42 taking care that possible errors due to biased choice of these sequences were minimized by ensuring that none of the selected sequences were included in the program databases.

All functional modules of RECOVIR were written in the Perl programming language on Windows XP Linux and UNIX platforms. A Java based graphical user interface GUI has been designed to wrap all functionalities and allow user friendly I O options .

Input selections on the GUI have been divided into 3 categories sequence databases and options to control output . Any number of query sequences may be input by either pasting them on the white board area or by browsing one or more directories for single or multiple sequence files. A given sequence file may contain any number of complete and partial sequences. Only FASTA formatted sequence files are accepted and all white spaces and non alphabet characters are ignored in input sequence files.

A dropdown menu in the database section of the GUI allows the user to specify the input sequence genus if known . A default reference sequence used for aligning the input sequences and for assigning the aligned location numbers to the input sequence then pops up in the Select a reference box . This default reference may be changed if required. In case genus of the input sequence is not known the unknown option in this box allows the program to automatically determine the genus and an appropriate reference sequence from the built in databases.

The Run button activates the program displays a progress bar indicating the percentage of input sequences processed and outputs results on the GUI s output section . Depending on the View results options chosen the output may include a summary or the complete details of partition wise matches between the database characteristic residues and the residues of the input target sequences. Many other details about the partitioned databases and run results may be viewed using various user friendly options in GUI s output control section .

Detailed strain identification results are described for only some norovirus strains among caliciviruses and some enterovirus strains among the picornaviruses. Complete details for the other calici and picornaviruses can be found at web site prion.bchs.uh.edu recovir.

Sequences belonging to the norovirus genus tree have been described elsewhere 40 . Briefly these sequences form a single group in partition P1 . Partition P2 splits this sequence group into the 2 known major genogroups GI and GII of noroviruses See additional file 1 Supplementary Table 1 4 40 . Group GI further divides into GIa and GIb in partition P3 while group GII divides into GIIa and GIIb in partition P4 or P5 that is identical with P4 See additional file 1 Supplementary Table 1 . Partition 6 further splits both GI and GII groups. Group GIa is divided into GIa1 and GIa2 while the group GIa splits into 4 groups GIIa1 a4 . In partition 7 Group GIa splits into 4 groups GIa1 a4 while GIIa3 splits further into the GIIa31 and GIIa32 groups See additional file 1 Supplementary Table 1 . Groups GIb GIIa4 and GIIb do not split up any further in this partition. Details of the remaining partitions P8 P10 are available at website prion.bchs.uh.edu recovir.

The characteristic residues of the norovirus genus tree stored in the program databases unambiguously identified the closest strains of target norovirus complete capsid sequences Table 2 .

As an example the results for norovirus Seacroft sequence NCBI AJ277620 are described here. Comparisons of the characteristic residue locations with the corresponding residues of this sequence showed that the maximum number of matches in partition P2 occurred in the aligned locations 70V and 203T of group GII and not for GI . The corresponding GI locations were 701 and 201V respectively when mapped to the unaligned reference Norwalk virus PDB ID 1IHM sequence . Thus the program searched only along the GII branch of the norovirus genus tree in subsequent partitions. In partition P3 the query sequence maximally matched the GII characteristic residues 4A 5S 36V 44P 104A 106G 205S 446I 455P 508R 511N and 519F while the corresponding GI residues in the reference Norwalk virus sequence are 4A 5S 36V 44A 104V 106N 203A 405L 414F 460H 463D and 471G respectively . In partitions P4 and P5 the maximum number of matches 102G 206C 228S 482D 562A occurred in GIIa indicating that further database searches in subsequent partitions should be restricted only to those groups that originate from GIIa.

Of the 4 possible GIIa choices GIIa1 a4 in the following partition P6 the maximum number of characteristic residue matches occurred in group GIIa3 corresponding to residues 11S 13D 82D 83L 103W 181R 185M 227K 250I 306G 329H 397S 409V 436L 492P 516V and 519A of the unaligned reference sequence . Comparisons in partition P7 showed that of the 2 groups GIIa31 and GIIa32 originating from the GIIa3 group of the previous partition P6 the GIIa32 group maximally matched the characteristic residues . These matches occurred at 63A 84S 110R 119T 125V 126S 133G 139I 145F 154T 163E 184C 192T 193G 207M 218F 229R 236L 257P 259N 347T 402A 419V 420F 447S 448E and 504V of the unaligned reference sequence . Similar comparisons in partitions P8 P10 conclusively showed that the query sequence is most similar to the minireovirus like norovirus strain 

Similarly the input Appalachicola Bay the Baltimore a and b and the Boxer strain sequences most closely resembled the Chiba minireovirus and the Potsdam strains of noroviruses see Table 2 . Strains were also correctly predicted after removing random stretches of 10 15 amino acids from these sequences indicating thereby that the strain prediction capability of the program is quite robust and is independent of the locations of the input target sequences.

Strains of five partial amino acid capsid sequences of noroviruses were consistently predicted using both the noro and unknown database options of the GUI . Only one of the 5 input sequences 1UK1 explicitly included the N terminus residues while the remaining sequences 2JP1 3JP2 4JP3 and 5TP1 were from different capsid regions Table 3 .

In Table 3 part B above the maximally matching sequence groups for each partition are shown within parentheses. Residues and sequence groups in Table 3 part B above use notations of . Residues are color matched in Table 3 parts A B above.

Despite the short sizes of the input partial sequences and the variations in their capsid locations the program unambiguously recognized the strains of all of them from their matches with the characteristic location residues. Location 70 in partition P2 determined the major genogroup in all but one sequence. Sequences 1UK1 and 5TP1 both containing 70V belonged to genogroup GII while 2JP1 and 3JP2 belonged to genogroup GI based on the corresponding 70I residue Table 3 . All of the GI residues 2JP1 3JP2 contained 20Q in partition P2. However the major genogroup of sequence 4JP3 appeared to be ambiguous as it showed features of both GI and GII groups in partition P2 ambiguity shown as in Table 3 . It contained not only 70V typical of GII sequences but also the GI indicator 20Q. In addition this sequence also presented the additional ambiguity of having an equal number of characteristic residue matches in both GI and GII groups for partition P2 Table 3 . To resolve this ambiguity the program carried over the partition P2 matches of this sequence 4JP3 to partition P3.

In partition P3 the program examined characteristic residue locations 4 5 26 36 and 44 for all of the sequences . Residue 44 unambiguously confirmed the distinction between the GI and the GII group sequences in this partition. Sequences 2JP1 3JP2 and 4JP3 by virtue of 44A were all characterized as GI sequences similar to the reference Norwalk virus sequence Table 3 . In contrast sequences 1UK1 and 5TP1 containing 44P are genogroup GII sequences. In addition because 1UK1 has 4A and 5S and sequences 2JP1 3JP2 and 4JP3 have 26N in partition P3 choices of their genogroups were unambiguously confirmed in this partition Table 3 . Residue 36V being conserved in all of the sequences in P3 was not of much help in determining the sequence groups in this partition Table 3 .

The program ignored partitions P4 and P5 for the 1UK1 and 5TP1 sequences due to ambiguities in residue matches. The next partition P6 showed another ambiguity of having more than one group with the highest number of matches for both these sequences Table 3 . However matches in partition P7 clearly indicated that sequence 1 UK1 belongs to GIIa1 while 5TP1 belongs to group GIIa32 Table 3 . Further matches in partitions P8 P10 Table 3 confirmed that 1UK1 and 5TP1 were most similar to the Beeskow and the Bitburg strains respectively Tables 2 3 See additional file 1 Supplementary Table 1 .

Thus the identified strain of the partial sequence 1UK1 is consistent with its NCBI classification as a member of the GII.4 cluster. However 5TP1 appears to belong to the GII.3 sequence cluster according to the present analysis and not to GII.4 as shown in the NCBI database. Similarly partitions P6 P10 allowed the program to confirm that the remaining sequences 2JP1 3JP2 and 4JP3 indeed belong to genogroup GI Tables 2 3 which is consistent with the NCBI classification of these sequences. In addition the program determined from residue comparisons that these sequences 2JP1 3JP2 and 4JP3 are most similar to the norovirus GI Chiba Norwalk and the Potsdam strains respectively Tables 2 3 . Such detailed strain information is seldom available for partial sequences in public domain databases.

The program first correctly identified the strains for 5 complete and 5 partial enterovirus capsid sequences. The complete capsid sequences were those of the VP 1 subunits of poliovirus simian enterovirus echovirus and the coxsackievirus strains one sequence per strain Table 2 . Different reference sequences were tested for aligning the target sequences. The target sequence strains were all correctly identified regardless of the choice of the reference sequences Tables 2 3 . As an example strain identification for the poliovirus strain NCBI DQ841140 using the porcine enterovirus 8 sequence PEV 8 NCBI accession number AF406813 as reference is briefly described. The second partition P2 of enteroviruses contains only 2 reference groups 1 and 2 in the program database Table 4 . Of these group 2 contains only the porcine enteroviruses PEV serotype 9 PEV 9 NCBI AF363453 indicating that the PEV 9 strains are distinct from the other enterovirus strains all of which including the PEV 8 strain belong to group 1. This group is characterized by nine residues 40P 42L 44A 46E 48G 72E 124T 125Y 127R 150Q 155P 157G 169W 176S 191P 199Y 202F and 203Y reference sequence PEV 8 numbering in the database Table 4 . Because all of these residues match the corresponding locations in the target poliovirus sequence the program assigns group 1 to the target sequence in partition P2 and skips the next partition P3 as it is identical to P2 Table 4 .

The program detects the separation of group 1 into two groups 1a and 1b in partition P4. This creates a total of 3 groups 1a 1b and 2 in this partition Table 4 . While group 1a contains only the PEV 8 sequences which have independently diverged from group 1 of partition P2 P3 group 1b contains the remaining group 1 sequences of these partitions. Group 2 of partition P2 P3 remains unaltered in partition P4. On comparing the characteristic residues of these three groups the program determines that the target sequence most closely resemble group 2 in partition P4 because of the matches with residues 61L 62Q 78L 106S 115S 131D 152L 170N and 174S PEV 8 numbering that characterize this group Table 4 . Similarly matches with residues 43T 55G 64T 84L 156H in partition P5 allow the program to assign group 6 to the target sequence in this partition which contains nearly 60 other similar enterovirus sequences including those of polioviruses Table 4 . Similarly residue 158G distinguishes group 7 as the maximally matching group out of the eight groups in partition P6. This group includes many similar strains in the program database including 12 strains of different coxsackievirus serotypes one echovirus strain and strains of all 3 poliovirus serotypes Table 4 .

The three poliovirus serotypes which remain clustered with several other human enteroviruses in partition P7 finally separate as an independent group in partition P8 group details not shown . However partitions P7 and P8 showed an ambiguity with reference to the input target sequence. Both of these partitions have more than one group having identical highest number of residue matches with the target. This ambiguity did not allow the program to decide the best group in these partitions. Consequently all group information of these partitions was carried over to the subsequent partition P9 Table 4 .

Partition P9 contains a total of 72 sequence groups including an independent group 62 containing only the poliovirus 2 strains. The program detected this group to be the maximally matching group for the target sequence and this detection was confirmed in the next partition P10. Thus the input target sequence was correctly detected as a poliovirus 2 strain Table 4 . Strains for the remaining picornaviruses Tables 2 3 were also unambiguously detected regardless of the choice of the reference strains.

Only a few enterovirus strains could be analyzed for recombination and spontaneous mutations using RECOVIR due to the manual nature of such analysis in the present version of the software. Partition wise comparisons of strain diversifying residues VP1 VP3 genes of the hepatitis A HAV strains at the nucleotide and the amino acid levels indicated that the SLF88 AY032861 and the MBB M20273 strains may be putative parental strains that yield the recombinant product strain 9F94 AJ519487 data not shown . This is consistent with recent results obtained using conventional topology comparisons of phylogenetic trees by sliding windows across the corresponding multiple aligned sequences 44 .

Similarly partition wise matches in the norovirus partial sequence 6ST1 indicated spontaneous mutations. While residue 20Q in partition P2 indicates that 6ST1 belongs to GI residue 70V in the same partition indicates that this sequence may belong to GII as seen for sequence 5TP1 Table 3 . The program therefore checks both these possibilities for maximum number of matches in subsequent partitions. Each subsequent partition confirms that this sequence indeed belongs to GI and is closest to the Potsdam strain NCBI accession AF439267 . Therefore location 70 which is an iso leucine for other GI sequences Table 3 may be a spontaneous mutation site.

Despite the limited results it appears that the present software may provide a more efficient way to detect recombination sites than those provided by most of the current widely used methods. This is because such methods are inherently time consuming as their accuracy depends on multiple runs with different sequence window parameters In addition the entire procedure must be repeated every time a new sequence needs to be analyzed. In contrast the present method does not repeatedly compare phylogenetic trees using sliding sequence windows. Instead it efficiently performs node wise comparisons of the trees using a one time created database of strain distinguishing residues.

The program rapidly identified the calici and the picornavirus strains. In typical runs on outbreak sequence data available from public databases it took only 6 and 9 minutes of real time respectively to identify the strains of a number of norovirus sequences contained in 2 files. The first file had 71 complete norovirus capsid sequences while the second file had 117 norovirus capsid sequences of which 22 were complete sequences while the remaining 95 were partial sequences each of which was between 75 and 85 residues long. This indicates a real time including I O of approximately 5 seconds per sequence. Comparable speeds were also observed in processing other calicivirus and picornavirus sequences processed separately in different files as well as in files containing sequences of these virus families together. The unknown database option was selected in all of these runs. Selecting the known database type in the GUI reduced the processing times even further. Complete benchmark details of such strain identification runs are available at website prion.bchs.uh.edu recovir.

A software package RECOVIR that can efficiently and accurately characterize strains of the highly divergent caliciviruses and picornaviruses is described here. In contrast to the currently existing techniques that mainly use sequence similarity scores to identify strains in these viruses this package relies on capsid residues that unambiguously distinguish among a large number of calici and the picornavirus reference strains. Such strain distinguishing residues are stored in partitioned databases and compared with the residues of target capsid sequences using efficient tree based search techniques to rapidly identify strains of the target sequences. This method implements a generalized algorithm of a method outlined earlier for noroviruses 40 . Consequently the program allows strain identification of not only norovirus sequences but of all other caliciviruses and of the picornavirus sequences as well. Strains were recognized for more than 300 complete and partial capsid sequences of calici and picornaviruses with the average strain identification time real time including I O being approximately 5 seconds per sequence. The method is general enough to be applicable to the nucleotide sequences of calici and picornavirus capsids thereby providing powerful alternatives that complement current strain determination techniques.

Dianhui Zhu coded the software and designed the GUI. Sugoto Chakravarty developed the concept designed the algorithm and its implementation and created the initial databases. Sugoto Chakravarty and Dianhui Zhu performed extensive troubleshooting with both synthetic and real data. Sugoto Chakravarty and George E. Fox wrote the paper. All authors suggested improvements at different stages of manuscript preparation and read and approved the final version of the manuscript.

Most single stranded RNA viruses adapt to host immune responses by rapidly mutating their capsid proteins to generate a large number of strains. An effective way to understand this strain diversity would be to decipher those capsid residues whose mutations may be linked to important determinants of host immune responses such as receptor binding and antigenicity. In the present study we show using evolutionary trace based approach that a large number of the strain diversifying residues belong to the known receptor binding sites and some of the neutralizing sites of human rhinoviruses HRV thereby validating the ET approach earlier applied to noroviruses NoV . In both NoV and HRV these capsid residues mostly line structurally spacious and inter connected pockets. These pockets perhaps define major adaptation sites that structurally facilitate strain diversification. The adaptive sites explain the antigenic diversity of HRV by uniquely distinguishing among phylogenetic groups of antigenically related serotypes. Therefore similarly constructed groups of NoV may indicate antigenically related strains none of which have been identified for these non cultivatable viruses. When applied to sequences of other caliciviruses and picornaviruses the present approach reveals significant relationships among the currently known genera and species of these viruses on the basis of unique strain diversifying residues. Such residues may therefore distinguish and classify these distinct virus families.

Rapid mutations in coat protein residues allow most single stranded RNA ssRNA viruses to adapt to host immune responses. Tracking and deciphering these mutation patterns is important in understanding adaptations in these viruses. However this is seemingly impossible because of the apparent randomness of sequence locations where these mutations occur especially when different ssRNA virus families are considered.

One way to understand adaptations in these viruses is to identify those capsid residues whose mutations may generate new strains and modulate important determinants of host immune responses such as receptor binding and antigenicity. For some ssRNA viruses having only a few serotypes experimental approaches that combine analysis of neutralization escape mutants and conventional sequence alignment may identify such strain diversifying capsid residues as has been done for polioviruses 6 19 21 24 58 . However these approaches are impractical when a large or unknown number of serotypes exist as in human rhinoviruses HRV and the noroviruses NoV of the Picornaviridae and the Caliciviridae families respectively.

Computational techniques effectively identify strain diversifying residues in such cases. However conventional sequence comparisons among NoV and HRV 1 17 20 23 29 42 48 72 75 have not been able to identify these residues. This is because such comparisons attempt to identify maximally conserved regions across phylogenetic trees thereby masking biologically significant capsid regions in HRV and NoV due to high sequence divergence.

Evolutionary trace ET techniques appear to address these issues while determining functionally important residues in simpler protein systems 60 67 . This is done by identifying node wise sequence conservation in phylogenetic trees followed by structural mapping of the conserved residues 45 . We earlier applied ET based techniques to predict capsid residues putatively involved in receptor binding antigenicity and strain diversification in NoV 12 . Recent confirmation of some of these results 3 10 31 46 53 indicated that such predictive approaches may be used to understand ssRNA virus strain diversification in a more general way provided the NoV approach is successful for viruses belonging to a different ssRNA family.

The relatively well characterized HRV have been chosen in the present study to reliably validate the NoV approach and extend it to other picornaviruses. Each serotype of HRV belongs to either the HRV A or the HRV B species 36 61 68 . Capsid structures of five of the serotypes show that each icosahedral capsid consists of 60 copies of each of the four monomers VP 1 4 26 35 59 71 74 . The receptors bind in or near structural canyons surrounding the icosahedral 5 fold axes in VP1 subunit and drug binding pockets are located underneath the canyons 4 11 25 28 65 . Of the four neutralizing immunogenic NIm sites IA IB II and III 54 59 only the NIm IA and IB sites are located in VP1 towards the exposed parts of the canyons 59 . We analyze here the capsids of HRV and other picornaviruses and caliciviruses in order to elucidate adaptations in ssRNA viruses.

Partitioned phylogenetic trees of VP1 capsid sequences of 100 HRV serotypes were created following the ET method 45 applied earlier to NoV 12 . The VP1 sequences were obtained from public databases 38 51 where only one sequence per serotype was available. The sequences were first aligned using ClustalW 70 and Gonnet 250 series identity matrices were used to create phylogenetic distances. Penalties for gap opening closing extension and separation were set to 10 1 0.2 and 4 respectively for amino acid sequences. Rooted phylogenetic trees of the aligned sequences were created using the Kitsch algorithm on Phylip distances as implemented on the Cambridge server 33 . Assuming uniform evolutionary rates of the sequences these trees were divided into ten equally spaced partitions P01 P10 with the inter partition distance in any given tree being computed from the maximum evolutionary distance within the tree. Ten partitions sufficed for all trees as no further changes in node distributions were observed in any tree with further increase in partition numbers.

Every partition created classes each of which contained groups of similar sequences. Sequences belonging to different classes of a given partition were separately aligned and the resulting aligned classes were compared to obtain the consensus trace residues for that partition. Those sequences that remained strictly conserved within a class but differed between various classes were denoted as class specific . These residues were mapped onto the HRV 16 PDB ID 1AYM structure where class specific residue CSR clusters were analyzed following the procedure described earlier 12 .

To identify structural location preferences of the CSRs void volume cavities and pockets were separately computed for the HRV 16 and the Norwalk virus PDB ID 1IHM capsids. For HRV16 pseudo dimers composed of the VP1 and VP3 subunits and other VP1 VP4 subunit assemblies were used while for the Norwalk virus capsid dimers composed of the A and the B subunits 55 trimers A B and the C subunits and the A subunit pentamers were used. These calculations were done using 1.41 radius probes in the VOIDOO package 37 and on the CASTp server 5 . Cavities were defined as void contiguous regions formed by atoms not in touch with surface atoms while pockets were defined as the corresponding regions partly or wholly accessible to surface atoms. Therefore a pocket by definition must have at least one opening that allows access to the interior of the pocket while cavities have no such openings 5 . Consequently exposed regions smaller than the probe size were considered parts of cavities. Accessible and inaccessible surface areas and volumes of the pockets and cavities were computed using definitions of Lee and Richards 43 and Connolly 13 14 .

Amino acid sequences of capsids of known serotypes of the human enterovirus HEV species A D were partition wise analyzed. A total of 388 capsid sequences of all nine known picornavirus genera 68 were then similarly analyzed. The procedure was repeated for a large number of amino acid sequences of all known genera of caliciviruses.

Various antigenic relationships are known among serotypes of HRV. Some serotype pairs 1A and 1B 2 and 49 3 and 14 9 and 32 12 and 78 13 and 41 15 and 74 29 and 44 and 36 and 58 share reciprocal cross neutralization with heterotypic antisera while other pairs share one way antigenic relationships between the pair members Table 1 . Still others like serotypes 9 32 and 67 are antigenically related because serotypes 9 and 32 are cross reciprocally related while serotypes 9 and 67 show one way relationships 15 Table 5 . In addition four groups of serotypes share cross reactivity among the group members as seen in neutralizations with antibodies raised against serotypes obtained from natural infections 50 Table 5 15 16 62 .

Antigenically related serotypes of HRV group together in distinct partition dependent classes. For example in P02 serotypes 3 14 group together in class B HRV B species while all of the remaining antigenically related pairs belong to class A HRV A species Table 5 . Subsequent partitions continue to cluster most of these related serotypes and also cluster those antigenically related serotypes that are obtained from natural infections Table 5 . Even serotypes sharing antigenic relationships with multiple other serotypes like serotypes 9 32 and 67 are grouped together in the same class in at least one partition Table 5 .

The different partitions distinguish between the reciprocally related serotypes from the one way related ones. The reciprocal serotypes remain grouped together in a larger number of partitions as compared to the one way related ones. For example the mutually reciprocal serotypes 1A and 1B remain together in classes A P02 P04 A1 P05 P06 and A3 P07 P09 Table 5 . In contrast the one way related serotypes 11 and 74 split up after class A4 in partition P07. These serotypes get distributed into classes A12 and A16 in P08 . Similar splits are seen in other one way related serotype pairs 11 40 17 42 36 50 and 39 54 Table 5 .

Strain Diversifying Locations Include Known Neutralization and Receptor Binding Sites Csrs are Strain Diversifying Locations

While partitioned classes show that the phylogenetic trees of HRV portray antigenic diversity the CSRs define the antigenic diversification locations. This is because class specific conservation in these residues may be viewed as strain diversifying mutations that generate the antigenically related classes . For example location 1 which is conserved as either Asn or Gly in partition P02 may be equivalently viewed as two possible mutations in this location Asn generates all class A sequences while Gly generates sequences of class B. Similarly class specific mutations in locations 48 56 102 103 155 170 174 223 and 239 HRV16 numbering is followed throughout unless stated otherwise generate the HRV A and HRV classes in partitions P02 P04 C while class specific mutations in the other partition dependent CSRs generate classes in the remaining partitions data available with authors from bchs.uh.edu HRVET .

The two major neutralizing immunogenic NIm sites 1a 1b 59 63 share a common feature in sequence comparisons both these sites appear as insertion regions that are class specific in P02 and remain so in most subsequent partitions. Site 1a which is common to immunogenic site 1 in polioviruses and consists of the VP1 residues 91 and 95 HRV14 numbering occurs as insertions in a majority of the HRV A and HRV B classes FIG. S . Similarly of the residues 83 85 138 and 139 HRV14 numbering belonging to the NIm 1b site in VP1 2 residues 138 and 139 are class specific insertions for the HRV A class but not for the HRV B class data available from the website bchs.uh.edu HRVET .

Structurally neutralization sites 1a and 1b belong to exposed VP1 loop regions in HRV 2 59 . This makes the corresponding P02 class specific insertion locations amenable to strain diversifying mutations. Thus exposed P02 class specific insertions deletions are good indicators of important neutralizing strain diversification sites. However these conditions alone are not enough to predict the neutralization properties of sites located at subunit interface regions. This is clearly seen in the NIm II III sites located near the VP1 VP2 and VP1 VP3 interfaces respectively 63 . These neutralization sites do involve exposed VP1 residues 210 and 287 of HRV14 but they do not involve class specific insertions FIG. S . Therefore exposed P02 class specific insertions deletions are good indicators of neutralizing strain diversification sites provided these sites are not located in subunit interfaces.

The class specific residue D213 whose mutations generate classes in HRV beginning partition P09 contacts the major group receptor in HRV16 4 41 . Similarly the P09 class specific residue 226Q of HRV 16 or 225H in HRV2 serotype that is located near but outside the canyon 28 contacts the minor group receptor in HRV2. Thus CSRs correctly identify receptor contacting residues in both major and minor group HRV indicating that the receptor binding regions constitute important strain diversifying sites.

Some of the strain diversifying locations include known and putative capsid related function sites in HRV present analysis and in NoV respectively 12 . The remaining such locations appear to be randomly distributed in sequences as seen from the CSRs. However closer examination of the capsid structures reveals that the strain diversifying mutations do not occur at random sequence locations. Instead a majority of such mutations are localized in and around cavities and pockets enclosed by the capsids of HRV and NoV.

The VP1 VP3 pseudo dimer of the HRV16 capsid 34 consists of nearly 27 cavities and 49 pockets. All cavities are small but their sizes are consistent with those found in smaller proteins 30 44 57 . In contrast all pockets are larger. Thirteen pockets have inaccessible and accessible volumes less than 2013 and 313 respectively while twenty two of the remaining pockets are larger having inaccessible volumes varying between 20A3 and 10013. Nine of the remaining 15 pockets are still larger with volumes between 100A3 and 50013.

Each of the five largest pockets has inaccessible volumes greater than 50013 with three of them 71 74 and 75 having volumes between 80013 and 1400A3 Table 6 . The largest pocket 75 encompasses the known anti viral binding region 25 34 49 65 73 as seen from the agreement between computed parameters such as the pocket openings and the roof and floor residues of the pocket Table 6 with the corresponding known results 26 34 59 65 .

The A B dimer of the Norwalk virus capsid 55 contains 86 cavities and 77 pockets. All cavities are smaller than most of the pockets among which 64 are relatively small pockets having inaccessible volumes less than 10013 and ten are somewhat larger with volumes varying between 10013 and 40013. All pockets including two of the largest ones 160 and 162 in Table 7 involve only the S and or the P1 domain residues. Only one major pocket 161 in Table 7 involves P2 domain residues.

A majority of the CSRs and their sequence neighbors line the pockets in HRV and NoV indicating that these pockets localize most of the strain diversifying mutations. Most of the cavities and pockets are inter connected through common CSRs. Additionally some of the CSRs lining the largest pockets are also involved in or are putatively involved in capsid related functions in HRV and NoV respectively Tables 6 7 12 31 53 . Thus capsids of HRV and NoV enclose a network of inter connected cavities and pockets the largest of which define regions where three major determinants of adaptations namely strain diversifying mutations receptor binding and antigenicity occur together.

The occurrence of strain diversifying mutations and capsid related functions in the largest pockets has important implications in HRV and NoV. The inter connected pockets and cavities may be schematically represented as trapped bubbles in regions whose surface contains the receptor binding and antigenic sites . Upon binding the receptor strain diversifying mutations occur in these regions in order to escape host immune responses. These mutations may change the shapes of the bubbles by squeezing or expanding them. This in turn modifies the capsid surface to create altered receptor binding and antigenic characteristics . The pockets and cavities therefore define regions where capsid related functions and strain diversifying mutations mutually influence each other. Hence these pockets and cavities may define important adaptation sites in HRV and NoV. Inter connectivity among such sites indicates that adaptations in one site may affect other distantly located sites perhaps facilitated by solvent molecules in a manner similar to the influence of protein cavities on ligand binding 9 22 66 69 .

Analysis of all known capsid structures of HRV indicates that the number of CSRs lining the pockets increases with increase in the pocket sizes Tables 6 7 and data available from bchs.uh.edu HRVET . Thus the size of a given pocket approximately determines the number of different types of strain diversifying mutations that the pocket may tolerate indicating thereby the relative evolutionary importance of the different adaptation sites.

Because both HRV and HEV mutate at uniform rates that are well within limits proposed for ssRNA viruses 18 the HEV may be compared using evolutionarily equidistant partitions in a similar way as the HRV. Such comparisons reveal the strain diversifying sites in HEV.

Comparisons of different HEV species reveal known and unidentified antigenic relationships. When serotypes of species HEV A and B are compared the two P02 classes A B correctly group the serotypes in their respective species FIG. S each of which contains antigenically related serotypes 32 . Even strains with unconfirmed species HEV 75 76 78 89 90 and 91 are correctly placed in classes that correspond to their respective proposed species. The CSRs which are also the strain diversifying locations are clearly revealed for the two species data available with authors at http bchs.uh.edu HRVET .

Inclusion of the HEV C species Coxsackie A1 A 1 A13 A15 A17 A22 A24 echovirus 34 in partitioned comparisons along with the HEV A and the HEV B species indicates new antigenic relationships in partition P02. The HEV B and the HEV C species group together in the same class FIG. S thereby indicating that the capsids of these two species antigenically resemble each other more closely than the HEV A capsids. This is further confirmed when serotypes of the known four species HEV A B C and D are compared together. Only three P02 classes are observed of which the B and C species group together in the HEV B C class FIG. S . The remaining two classes respectively contain the HEV A and the HEV D species. The P02 class specific residues 34 40 52 81 and 157 PDBID 1Z7S numbering are the strain diversifying locations that explain the similarities and differences among the classes. It is only in P03 that the HEV B and the HEV C serotypes are distinguished as individual species through their respective CSRs details available with authors prion.bchs.uh.edu HRVET .

Partition P02 shows correct antigenicity for polioviruses with respect to the HEV species. Polioviruses are grouped together with the HEV C class in P02 FIG. S indicating that the these viruses belong to the HEV C species in agreement with the current consensus about the identity of polioviruses 56 as well as with recently approved recommendations 8 68 . Interestingly when all three known poliovirus serotypes PV 1 2 and 3 7 32 are compared only two distinct P02 classes are created . Of these the PV2 3 class shows that the PV 2 and the PV 3 serotypes share closer antigenic similarities among each other than with the PV 1 serotypes due to the class specific locations 6 76 213 278 and 290 PDBID 1P01 numbering . Such similarities may indicate shared epitopes among the PV 2 and PV 3 classes that separate into distinct serotypes only in P03 .

The present analysis places the greatest emphasis on sequence relationships in partition P02. This is because it is assumed throughout that among all the partitions P02 has the highest evolutionary importance or rank in determining such relationships. By definition the evolutionary rank of a residue is inversely related to the minimum number of classes required to denote the residue class specific 47 . Thus lower the rank of a residue higher is its evolutionary importance and vice versa. This is because a low rank indicates conservation of a residue even among distantly related sequence classes whereas a high ranking residue indicates that the residue varies even among closely related sequences implying a relatively lower evolutionary significance for the residue due to a high probability that random chance events may create such residue variations.

Consequently the first partition P01 which compares sequences in one group like in conventional sequence comparisons has negligible evolutionary importance because class specificity cannot be defined for this partition. More simply P01 intrinsically masks evolutionarily important residues that may define phylogenetic strain diversification. In contrast the second partition P02 is evolutionarily most significant because each P02 class contains the maximum number of distantly related sequences. The CSRs have become fixed to the distantly related classes so early in phylogeny that they acquire the greatest evolutionary importance in defining class specific functions such as receptor binding and antigenicity that drive strain diversification. Therefore partition P02 displays the most significant sequence relationships in its classes that in turn spawn other relatively less significant classes in subsequent partitions S S .

If partitioned comparisons reveal possible adaptive sites that are responsible for strain diversification in each of the two different genera HEV and HRV of the Picornaviridae family it should also be possible to partition wise compare two or more genera of this family together. This is because it is reasonable to assume that each of the nine genera enteroviruses rhinoviruses cardioviruses aphthoviruses hepatoviruses parechoviruses erboviruses kobuviruses and the teschoviruses 36 of the Picornaviridae family has comparably uniform mutation rates. If so then the P02 classes arising out of the partitioned comparisons multiple genera together will yield evolutionarily significant strain diversification patterns. Additionally such joint comparisons may be useful for checking the consistency of the results obtained earlier individually for HRV and the HEV in the present analysis.

When amino acid sequences of the VP1 capsids of all nine genera of picornaviruses are compared together four P02 classes 1 4 are created . The HRV and the HEV group together in class 3 of partition P02 and continue to remain grouped in class 3a of subsequent partitions P03 and P04. This indicates significant similarities among the HRV and the HEV in agreement with recently accepted recommendations 39 68 .

It is only in P05 that the HRV separate from the HEV to create the HRV A and the HRV B species in classes 3a1 and 3a2 respectively which remain unchanged in P06 . Similarly the HEV split into five classes 3b1 3b5 in P05. Of these classes 3b2 and 3b3 consist of the HEV A and the HEV D species respectively and class 3b5 consists of the simian enteroviruses SEV . Class 3b1 groups the HEV B and the HEV C species together including the polioviruses confirming the earlier results of the present analysis using HEV alone FIG. S S .

Among the HEV classes 3b1 3b5 class 3b4 shows that a current rhinovirus serotype HRV87 is more similar to two HEV D serotypes 68 and 70 than it is to other rhinoviruses in agreement with recent recommendations 42 61 68 . Such non rhinovirus like characteristics of HRV87 is confirmed in comparisons among the HRV where this serotype independently branches off at node 3 in partition P02 .

The importance of partition P02 in correctly elucidating so many sequence relationships among the HRV and the HEV allows predictions of more P02 based sequence relationships and the consequent strain diversification in other picornaviruses. The P02 class 1 indicates that the aphthovirus genus including the erbovirus A species the erbovirus B species and the cardiovirus genus including the encephalomyocarditis EMC viruses and the Theiler s murine encephalomyelitis TME viruses are closely related consistent with some known sequence comparisons and cleavage mechanisms of some of these viruses 27 40 .

While kobuviruses alone form class 2 of P02 showing their distinctiveness from the other genera the teschoviruses TEV group together in class 3 along with HRV and the HEV . This shows that the TEV genus may share important adaptive function similarities with the HRV and the HEV. Similarly class 4 shows that the hepatoviruses and the parechoviruses are closer to each other than they are to the other genera.

Unlike partition P02 which reveals inter relationships among the currently known genera the later partitions systematically show the emergence of other classification hierarchies such as the species. For example the P02 class 1 splits up into the aphthovirus genus class 1a Erbo A species class 1b Erbo B species class 1c and the cardiovirus genus class 1d in P03 and P04 . Of these classes 1c and 1d remain unchanged in all subsequent partitions while the aphthovirus genus class 1a further splits up into the known A C O Asian and the African species. Similarly the cardiovirus class 1d splits up into the known EMCV and the TME species in partition P06 . Of the other P02 classes class 4 splits up into the respective hepatoviruses and the parechoviruses genera in P03 classes 4a and 4b . These remain unchanged in P05 and P06 after which further species emerge data not shown .

Thus comparisons of the picornavirus VP1 amino acid sequences indicate partition dependent relationships among the currently known genera and species. Such relationships among the known genera in P02 may reflect shared receptors antigenicity or both unlike comparisons within a given genus where the P02 classes primarily yield antigenic relationships as seen for HRV and the HEV. It is only in later partitions that all of the currently known species and serotypes emerge independently .

Comparisons of amino acid sequences of all caliciviruses shows that the lagoviruses and the noroviruses form independent classes while the sapoviruses and the vesiviruses together form the third class data not shown . This indicates that the sapoviruses and the vesiviruses share similarities in their capsid adaptation sites

Thus partition dependent classes and the CSRs explain strain diversification in picornaviruses and caliciviruses by distinguish these viruses on the basis of adaptation site residues. Therefore classification schemes based on capsid sequences should explicitly indicate partitions in sequence classes in order to reflect these adaptive sites.

One way of doing so would be to represent the genus of a virus as Gn where the uppercase G denotes the genus and n denotes the genus number. As each genus has its own phylogenetic tree any sequence class or cluster on these genus trees may be uniquely represented using a partition number and a class number in the format P xx .g n where the lowercase g is used to denote clusters belonging to a given genus xx denotes the partition number and n denotes the class number within the partition.

As an illustration the four genera of the Caliciviridae family are represented by G1 noroviruses G2 lagoviruses G3 sapoviruses and G4 vesiviruses with each genus having its own partitioned tree. In the norovirus G1 tree class 4 in partition P05 would be denoted as G1.P05.g4 that represents all sequences in class 4 g4 of partition P05 of the norovirus tree. Similarly G1.P02.g2 would represent those noroviruses that belong to class g2 of partition P02. Likewise the symbol G3.P06.g2 would represent class 2 g2 in partition P06 of the sapovirus G3 tree. Such a representation would uniquely reflect all partition dependent classes within a given virus family.

The present analysis shows that the phylogenetic trees of the two genera HRV and HEV of picornaviruses portray antigenic diversity. The partitioned classes of a given genus correspond to groups of antigenically related serotypes. Therefore the phylogenetic trees of capsid sequences of NoV may reflect antigenic diversity among noroviruses. The corresponding partitioned classes of NoV 12 may actually represent antigenic relationships among groups none of which are identified due to the non cultivability of these viruses. For example genogroup I strains Norwalk PDB 1IHM Aichi NCBI AB010145 and Kyoto 89 NCBI L23828 which cluster together in partitions P02 P10 12 may be antigenically related to each other. Similarly the genogroup II strains Chesterfield NCBI Q91386 Melksham NCBI X81879 and Snow Mountain NCBI U700059 may also be antigenically related 12 . Additionally the exposed regions that correspond to P02 class specific insertions such as those occurring in the P domains near residues 298 339 362 426 of Norwalk virus 12 may play important roles in neutralizing NoV.

The present study uses evolutionary trace based approach to show that although noroviruses NoV and human rhinoviruses HRV belong to different families of single stranded RNA ssRNA viruses their coat protein sequences do not mutate at random residue locations to create strain diversification. Instead these mutations are mostly localized in and around inter connected structural pockets in the capsids of both NoV and HRV. Many of the strain diversifying residues belonging to the largest pockets are involved in capsid related functions such as receptor binding and antigenicity. Thus these pockets may structurally facilitate adaptations in response to host immune responses. The pockets are therefore called adaptation sites. Combinations of strain diversifying residues belonging to different adaptation sites explain the antigenic diversity in HRV by uniquely identifying each phylogenetic group of antigenically related serotypes. Therefore known phylogenetic groups of NoV may reveal unidentified antigenic relationships. Extension to other picornaviruses and caliciviruses reveals significant sequence relationships among different genera and species on the basis of unique strain diversifying residues. Such residues may therefore be used to distinguish and classify these viruses and other ssRNA virus families as well.

The rhino cDNA database is shown in FIG. D. The code used read the database is shown in FIG. D. The group information used in the structured data is shown in FIG. D. The partition trees is shown in FIG. D which consists of ten partitions. Partition one P1 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P2 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P3 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P4 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P5 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P6 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P7 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P8 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P9 is shown in FIG. D. Partition one P10 is shown in FIG. D. This data and the partitions was used above in the analysis of adaptive mutations.

All references cited herein are incorporated by reference. Although the invention has been disclosed with reference to its preferred embodiments from reading this description those of skill in the art may appreciate changes and modification that may be made which do not depart from the scope and spirit of the invention as described above and claimed hereafter.

