---

title: Modular chemical/biological headgear system
abstract: A modular chemical/biological headgear system includes a helmet liner of a resilient shock absorbing material that conforms generally to the shape of a wearer's head, provides a cavity for removable installation of one or more modular filters in the back, and a duct to convey filtered air from the one or more modular filters to a face mask. The helmet liner may be equipped and configured with a variety of interchangeable modular components including hardened outer shells, communications modules, enhanced chemical biological filters, and the like, to meet a wide variety of operational needs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09155924&OS=09155924&RS=09155924
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09155924
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070208
---
The present invention relates in general to helmets and other headgear that integrate air purifying filters and masks and in particular to a modular helmet liner system that integrates air purifying alters and a face mask as well as other components in or together with a helmet liner.

Historically air purifying respirator masks such as those intended for protection against chemical and biological agents were not specifically designed for use in combination with helmets headsets and other head mounted gear. Increasingly however military homeland security and civilian law enforcement personnel are required to wear chemical biological air purifying filtration apparatus along with helmets headsets face shields and other head mounted gear. The lack of integration between traditional respirator masks and other head mounted equipment has caused discomfort difficulty in fitting and obtaining a proper air seal premature fatigue and diminished capabilities for wearers especially after extended periods of use. The addition of night vision goggles communications gear and Other head mounted apparatus further exacerbates the problem.

Various efforts have been directed to integrating air purifying filtration apparatus with head mounted gear. One example is found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 826 783 issued on Dec. 7 2004 to Grove et al. a co applicant herein 783 patent and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The 783 patent discloses a chemical biological protection helmet especially suited to use by aircraft personnel that incorporates a self contained air purifying filter system to provide protection against a range of chemical and biological agents. The air purifying filter in the 783 patent is attached to the helmet behind the wearer s head. Ducting within the helmet connects the rear mounted filter to the front to provide filtered air to the user. Placement of the filter behind the head advantageously positions the center of gravity of the helmet system closer to a point lying over the shoulders of the wearer. This results in improved stability and comfort and removes the filter from the wearer s field of view for better visibility. While the 781 patent provides significant improvements over the prior art further improvements are needed particularly in the areas of operational flexibility and modularity. For example components of the 783 patent s chemical biological protection helmet are not configured to be interchangeably incorporated into different chemical biological personal protection systems. In addition reconfiguration of system component parts to meet different operational needs is limited. Embodiments according to the present invention are designed to address at least the foregoing needs.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings. The drawings are a part of this disclosure and illustrate specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. The invention however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied in methods systems and devices. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. The term helmet liner as used herein refers generally to any energy absorbing head covering component whether or not it is intended to be worn together with an outer shell or helmet. In some embodiments according to the present invention a system may be equipped with a removable outer shell that may be attached over the helmet liner for added head protection. In other embodiments the system may not be equipped with a removable outer shell.

Embodiments according to the present invention are expected to significantly expand the utility of personal chemical biological air purifying respiratory filter systems by incorporating modular components. The term modular as used herein indicates they are constructed according to standardized dimensions and interfaces.

The term modular as used herein refers to substantially standardized dimensions and interfaces to facilitate assembly reconfiguration and replacement of components and to provide interchangeability of components among different systems. Systems according to the present invention generally include modular components that may be assembled configured and or reconfigured into systems tailored to meet different operational needs. For example modular components may be selected for a particular headgear system based on the need to provide a higher level CB protection or to provide protection against certain types of CB contaminants. Other modular components may be selected for a headgear system based on the need for greater head protection improved thermal insulation or cooling camouflage more advanced communications or other capabilities. The use of modular components may also simplify design and development of new components by virtue of their standardized dimensions and interfaces.

In applications where additional head protection is needed a hardened outer shell may be added over liner . Two versions are shown in . Shell includes additional protection on the side of the head and fully covers the wearer s ears while shell is an open ear version. Shell is preferably made from a rigid light weight impact resistant material that has good resistance to projectile penetration such as fiberglass ABS a polycarbonate a composite material or an aramid fiber ballistic shell material e.g. Kevlar or combinations thereof. Shell can be attached to liner with hook and loop Velcro strips adhesive strips clips buckles snaps or other similar small fasteners. Shell may be composed of a single layer or may include multiple layers. Depending on operational needs other materials may be selected for use in shell to provide properties such as heat shielding inflammability electromagnetic shielding and chemical resistance.

A facemask module that covers and protects the nose and mouth and eyes may also be attached to liner . Facemask is made in part from a material that is flexible and resilient and that provides a good air seal around the nose and mouth and typically the entire face such as a natural or synthetic rubber. As shown in a visor is integrated with facemask module extending upwardly to cover the area of the wearer s eyes and forehead. Visor is made from an optically transparent impact resistant material such as polyurethane or polycarbonate. In alternative embodiments visor may be provided as a separate removable component. Shown in are two representative and alternative facemask modules . Facemask module includes secondary filtration capability for enhanced or extended duration chemical biological protection whereas facemask module does hot include a secondary filtration capability. A face seal of a synthetic or organic rubber material is provided around the edge of facemask modules and . Face seal forms a flexible and substantially airtight seal between the face of the user and facemask module to prevent contaminated air from breaching the system. Face seal may be bonded clamped or molded to facemask module .

One or more filter modules for filtering chemical and biological contaminants are incorporated into modular chemical biological headgear system . As shown in two filter modules may be disposed in one or more cavities located in the rear of helmet liner . Various alternate filter modules may be employed depending on the chemical and biological protection requirements of a particular application. Interfaces for external filtering and air supply equipment may also be attached or substituted for filter modules . Such interfaces may provide ports for attachment to powered air purification or self contained breathing apparatus SCBA systems including connections to portable air purification air supply units or connections to multi user air purification air supply systems such as may be provided in a vehicle.

Communications modules may be included in embodiments of chemical biological headgear system . Communications modules include non electronic communications modules i.e. units to provide ear protection and to improve audibility during mask deployment as well as electronic communications modules which may provide additional capabilities. Communication modules are preferably sealed to protect the wearer from contamination. Non electronic communications modules may be inserted into ear module openings on either side of the helmet liner to provide cushioning and added protection from lateral blows. Such non electronic communication modules may also be configured to include passive noise reduction and filtering to protect the wearer against high decibel sounds from gun fire and explosions while providing a pass band at lower decibels to enable good transmission of voice communication. Electronic modules may be inserted into ear openings . Electronic modules may be wired or wireless and may include headset receivers ear phones sound absorbing cushioning ear cups and the like. One or more microphones for voice communication noise canceling and the like may be provided inside and or outside of mask module . A boom microphone for attachment to helmet liner is shown in . Active noise reduction canceling or noise filtering systems may also be incorporated in helmet liner systems according to the present invention. Ear phones and microphones are preferably adjustable to enable the wearer to place them in proper position and in comfortable relationship with the user s ears and mouth respectively.

Headgear system may also include one or more head retainer straps such as a chin strap to firmly secure the headgear to the wearer s head. Chin strap extends under the chin of the wearer and adjustably connects to retainers secured to helmet liner on opposite sides of the wearer s head. Releasable fasteners not shown on either side of the helmet liner preferably including quick release and ratcheting adjustability are preferably provided to enable rapid release installation and adjustment of chin strap and rapid removal of helmet helmet liner systems according to the present invention. In alternative embodiments a rear strap may also be provided behind the wearer s neck to ensure the helmet is secured to the head from the back as well as the front.

A nose cup assembly shaped generally to cover the nose and mouth of the wearer and made from a pliable resilient material such as natural or synthetic rubber so as to seal comfortably against the wearer s face is provided inside facemask module . Nose cup assembly serves to minimize fogging and reduce CO2 build up within facemask module . Nose cup assembly may be integrated with facemask module in this embodiment or may be a separable and removable component.

Filter modules and are installed in a rear lateral cavity located inside helmet liner . Lateral cavity extends substantially across the back of helmet liner at the bottom and includes left and right filter receiving spaces and . Filter modules and are described in more particularity in application Ser. No. 11 533 060 filed on behalf of Corey Grove et al. on Sep. 19 2006 entitled High Surface Area Chemical Biological Filter and incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth. Each filter module includes an air inlet and an air outlet . Filter modules and are positioned such that air inlets are exposed to the outside air behind the wearer s head. A lateral duct is positioned between filter modules and and provides left and right filter ports and . Ports and receive filter modules and and provide a substantially airtight coupling of air outlets to lateral duct . Lateral duct is pneumatically coupled to a longitudinal head duct . Longitudinal head duct is disposed in a longitudinal cavity that runs from lateral cavity to the front of helmet liner and extends forward over the head of the wearer to convey air from filter modules and to facemask module . Longitudinal duct preferably separates into two duct sections and to facilitate cleaning and filter replacement. Duct sections and are joined at an air tight seal using a low profile clamping mechanism. Head duet has an outlet port at the front that pneumatically and removably couples to an air inlet port of a forward duct . The back end of forward duct extends up from the top of facemask module conforming in shape to longitudinal cavity and curves rearward to meet outlet port . The forward end of forward duct terminates at an outlet port inside of facemask module at the top. Fresh air drawn into the mask module through outlet port passes over the inside of visor and thus helps to reduce fogging. Outlet port is preferably covered with a mesh spacer to prevent dust and debris from entering the passage and prevent the duct from collapsing. As shown in longitudinal duct includes a spacer medium on the inside of a resilient flexible rubber or plastic material to prevent the duct from collapsing or the airflow from becoming restricted while at the same time enabling the duct to be flexible and shock absorbing. Spacer medium is preferably corrugated or fluted to form a number of parallel channels running the length of the duct to avoid restricting airflow.

A nose cup assembly made of a flexible resilient material such as natural or synthetic rubber is provided inside facemask Nose cup W may be integrated with facemask or may be provided as a separate removable component. Nose cup includes a forward opening that is coupled to an exhaust port provided in facemask module in front of the wearer s mouth. Exhaust port allows exhaled air to be exhausted and is equipped with a conventional one way exhalation valve not shown to prevent the inhalation of contaminated air. Forward opening provides a soft grommet like edge that engages a corresponding hard plastic ridge provided around the inside opening of exhaust port to secure nose cup in position and ensure that a good air seal is provided. Exhaled air is thus channeled and exhausted directly from nose cup and is not allowed to circulate inside facemask module in order to minimize fogging and reduce CObuild up. Inhalation ports are provided in nose cup to enable fresh air to be drawn in through facemask module. Inhalation ports are equipped with conventional inhalation valves to prevent back flow of exhaled air into facemask module .

While ducts and are shown as separable in this embodiment and duct is divided into duct sections and in alternative embodiments ducts and and duct sections and may be integrated. Likewise in some alternative embodiments of helmet liner systems according to the present invention ducts may be formed integrally with the helmet liner.

As has been shown embodiments according to the present invention provide a modular chemical biological helmet liner system that includes modular components. The modular components have substantially standardized dimensions and interfaces to facilitate interchangeability rapid assembly and incorporation in a variety of personal respiratory protection systems. The modular components may be reconfigured to meet a variety of operational needs. A number of embodiments of the invention defined by the following claims have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications to the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. Accordingly other embodiments axe within the scope of the invention which is limited only by the following claims.

