---

title: Nuclear reactor downcomer flow deflector
abstract: A nuclear reactor having a coolant flow deflector secured to a reactor core barrel in line with a coolant inlet nozzle. The flow deflector redirects incoming coolant down an annulus between the core barrel and the reactor vessel. The deflector has a main body with a front side facing the fluid inlet nozzle and a rear side facing the core barrel. The rear side of the main body has at least one protrusion secured to the core barrel so that a gap exists between the rear side of the main body adjacent the protrusion and the core barrel. Preferably, the protrusion is a relief that circumscribes the rear side of the main body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07889830&OS=07889830&RS=07889830
owner: Westinghouse Electric Company LLC
number: 07889830
owner_city: Cranberry Township
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070508
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE FC07 051D14636 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to water cooled nuclear reactors and more particularly to pressurized water reactors having direct vessel injection.

The primary side of nuclear reactor power generating systems which are cooled with water under pressure comprises a closed circuit which is isolated from and in heat exchange relationship with a secondary side for the production of useful energy. The primary side comprises the reactor vessel enclosing a core comprised of a plurality of fuel assemblies containing fissile material the primary circuit within heat exchange steam generators the inner volume of a pressurizer and pumps and pipes for circulating pressurized water the pipes connecting each of the steam generators and pumps to the reactor vessel independently. Each of the parts of the primary side comprising a steam generator a pump and a system of pipes which are connected to the vessel form a loop of the primary side. The primary side is also connected to auxiliary circuits including a circuit for volumetric and chemical adjustment of the pressurized water. This auxiliary circuit which is arranged branching on the primary circuit makes it possible to maintain the quantity of water in the primary circuit by replenishing when required with measured quantities of water and to monitor the chemical properties of the coolant water particularly its content of boric acid which is important to the operation of the reactor. During the periods when the chemical properties of the water are adjusted it may be necessary to carry out tappings or injections into the primary circuit. Outside these periods of injections or tappings the valves connecting auxiliary circuits other than the circuit for volumetric or chemical control to the primary side are closed. The primary side is then theoretically isolated and completely sealed with the result that the quantity of water in the primary side is theoretically constant.

In practice however it is observed that this quantity of cooling water diminishes during the operation of the reactor as a consequence of unavoidable leaks. It is important to maintain the level of coolant within the core and when makeup water is required in some nuclear reactor system designs it is directly injected through direct vessel injection nozzles into the reactor vessel in the downcomer between the reactor vessel and the core barrel. A deflector attached to the core barrel in line with the direct vessel injection nozzle directs the incoming water down the downcomer to the bottom of the vessel where it changes direction and is directed up through the lower core support plate to the core. The incoming water entering through the direct vessel injection nozzle is at approximately 50 F. 10 C. . Prior to a direct vessel injection transient the direct vessel injection flow deflector has a uniform temperature consistent with the reactor cooling system cold leg temperature which is approximately 535 F. 279 C. . At the onset of the direct vessel injection transient the direct vessel injection flow deflector interior surfaces cool almost instantaneously to 50 F. 10 C. . As a result of the direct vessel injection transients the flow deflector experiences a significant amount of contraction because of rapid cooling. For existing plants having direct vessel injection the flow deflector can best be described as a solid rectangular plate or block with a machined groove extending just below a top lip to the bottom of the plate. The machined groove turns the direct vessel injection flow down into the reactor pressure vessel core barrel annulus between the pressure vessel and the core barrel.

Since the flow deflector can be characterized as a solid block one side of the weld that is the heel of the fillet weld is constrained to follow the contraction of the block surface of the deflector. The toe of the weld remains in contact with the outside diameter of the core barrel. The average temperature of the core barrel approximately 580 F. 304 C. is significantly higher than the direct vessel injection flow deflector during the direct vessel injection transient. Therefore during the direct vessel injection transient the throat of the weld experiences a significant amount of shear action. This shear action is necessary to accommodate the differential strain between the direct vessel injection flow deflector and the core barrel. As a result high stresses are anticipated for the weld.

New reactor designs such as the AP1000 reactor design offered by Westinghouse Electric Company LLC anticipate an increased number of occurrences of direct vessel injection system transients. The direct vessel injection connections are used to reduce the side effects of accidents caused by reactor coolant system pipe breaks. In plants that do not use direct vessel injection connections core make up water is introduced through the cold leg piping. A break of a main coolant loop pipe will cause spillage of safety injection flow. For the AP1000 with direct vessel injection breaks of the main coolant loop piping will not cause any safety injection spillage.

Previous plants that used direct injection nozzles were two loop plants that used them only for safety injection. The direct vessel injection nozzles on the AP1000 are connected to the core makeup tank for safety injection and to the in containment refueling water storage tank drain lines accumulators and shut down cooling pumps. These additional connections add significant transients to the direct vessel injection nozzle and deflector. These transients are anticipated to set up high stresses that can result in an unacceptable fatigue life of the fillet weld attaching the flow deflector to the core barrel. The current weld design attaching the flow deflector to the core barrel will not likely accommodate the relative differential expansion of the flow deflector and core barrel over an increased number of injection transients because of the inherently stiff characteristics of the mating surfaces.

Accordingly a new flow deflector to core barrel interface is desired that can better accommodate the stresses set up by the rapid cooling of the flow deflector during a direct vessel injection transient.

This invention achieves the foregoing objective by providing a nuclear reactor having a pressure vessel with a fluid inlet nozzle extending through the wall of the pressure vessel. An internal support structure is supported within the pressure vessel in spaced relationship with and opposite to an interior side of the pressure vessel inlet nozzle. A deflector is positioned between the internal support structure and the fluid inlet nozzle inline with the inlet nozzle for deflecting fluid flowing through the inlet nozzle into the pressure vessel. The deflector has a main body with a front side facing the fluid inlet nozzle and a rear side facing the internal support structure. The rear side of the main body has at least one protrusion affixed to the internal support structure so that a gap exists between the rear side of the main body adjacent the protrusion and the internal support structure. Preferably the protrusion has a weld preparation or prep that is welded to the internal support structure with a full penetration weld. Preferably a reinforcing weld is laid over the full penetration weld in a pressurized water reactor the internal support structure is the core barrel.

In one embodiment the protrusion comprises a machined relief that extends around a periphery of the rear side of the main body and may have a vent hole either through one or the other or both of the internal support structure and main body.

In another preferred embodiment the deflector is a metal block having an axial groove machined into its front side extending from below atop surface of the metal block to and through a bottom of the metal block. Desirably the periphery of the metal block is substantially round. In another preferred embodiment the rear side of the deflector has a groove adjacent the protrusion to add flexibility between the protrusion and the rear side of the deflector. Desirably the groove is annular and extends around the main body inside the protrusion.

Referring now to the drawings shows a simplified nuclear reactor primary system including a generally cylindrical reactor pressure vessel having a closure head enclosing a nuclear core . A liquid reactor coolant such as water is pumped into the vessel by pump through the core where heat energy is absorbed and is discharged to a heat exchanger typically referred to as a steam generator in which heat is transferred to a utilization circuit not shown such as a steam driven turbine generator. The reactor coolant is then returned to the pump completing the primary loop. Typically a plurality of the above described loops are connected to a single reactor vessel by reactor coolant piping .

An exemplary reactor design is shown in more detail in . In addition to a core comprised of a plurality of parallel vertical co extending fuel assemblies for purposes of this description the other vessel internal structures can be divided into the lower internals and the upper internals . In conventional designs the lower internals function to support align and guide the core core components and instrumentation as well as to direct flow within the vessel. The upper internals restrain or provide a secondary restraint for the fuel assemblies only two of which are shown for simplicity and support and guide instrumentation and components such as control rods .

In the exemplary reactor shown in coolant enters the vessel through one or more inlet nozzles flows downward about a core barrel is turned 180 in a lower plenum passes upwardly through a lower support plate and lower core plate upon which the fuel assemblies are seated and through and about the assemblies. In some designs the lower support plate and lower core plate are combined into a single lower core support plate at the same location as which eliminates the separate lower core plate . The coolant flow through the core and surrounding area is typically large in the order of 400 000 gallons per minute at a velocity of approximately 20 feet per second. The resulting pressure drop and frictional forces tend to cause the fuel assemblies to rise which movement is restrained by the upper internals including a circular upper core plate . Coolant exiting the core flows along the underside of the upper core plate and upwardly through a plurality of perforations . The coolant then flows upwardly and radially to one or more outlet nozzles .

The upper internals can be supported from the vessel and include an upper support assembly . Loads are transmitted between the upper support plate of the upper support assembly and the upper core plate primarily by a plurality of support columns . A support column is aligned above a selected fuel assembly and perforation in the upper core plate .

Rectilinearly moveable control rods typically including a drive shaft and a spider assembly of neutron poison rods are guided through the upper internals and into aligned fuel assemblies by control rod guide tubes . The guide tubes are fixedly joined to the upper support assembly and connected by a split pin force fit into the top of the upper core plate . The support columns assist in retarding guide tube deformation under seismic and design basis accident conditions which could detrimentally affect control rod insertion capability.

In accordance with this invention the reactor pressure vessel is provided with a direct vessel injection nozzle that communicates water from a makeup tank to the annulus between the core barrel and the interior of the pressure vessel . A flow deflector is welded to the exterior of the core barrel in line with the outlet of the direct vessel injection nozzle so that the makeup water impinging on the flow deflector is redirected downward to the lower plenum .

In the reactor pressure vessel inlet nozzles outlet nozzles are shown superimposed on the core barrel for the purposes of illustration to help visualize how they mate up with the corresponding nozzles on the core barrel . Similarly the direct vessel injection nozzle is also shown positioned adjacent the flow deflector . The core barrel has a flange that rests and is supported on an upper ledge within the reactor pressure vessel shown in . The core barrel shown in also has conventional radial keys for orienting the core barrel within the pressure vessel . As in conventional nuclear reactor plants the core barrel also has specimen baskets from which samples of the reactor vessel material can be taken periodically to check for radiation embrittlement.

Details of this improved design are illustrated in . shows a perspective view of a cross section of the deflector . The groove that circumscribes the back side of the deflector that affords greater flexibility can be seen just inside of the machined relief protrusion . also shows vent holes in the flow deflector which may be incorporated in the embodiment of this invention to relieve void volume pressure that may build up between the back of the deflector and the core barrel . Alternatively the vent holes can be provided in the core barrel as shown in .

The machined relief provided on the back side of the deflector provides for flexibility near the weld joint which can best be observed from which shows a perspective side view cross section of the flow deflector attached to the core barrel . The weld attaching the machined relief to the core barrel is shown at as a full penetration weld. This flexibility provided by the machined relief is needed to accommodate the thermal differential expansion of the flow deflector relative to the core barrel subsequent to a direct vessel injection fluid transient. This machined relief can be described as the introduction of a flexible support or joint between two stiff members i.e. the core barrel and the deflector. Thus part of the thermal strain experienced by the contraction of the cylinder wall outside diameter of the flow deflector can be accommodated by the 0.50 1.27 cm width shown in of the wall of the deflector in bending. It should be noted that the machined back of the deflector and the machined relief are contoured to match the curvature of the core barrel against which the relief is joined.

The full penetration weld prep for the relief is shown in as a machined J groove weld preparation though it should be appreciated that other weld preparation geometries can be employed. Preferably the weld extends completely around the periphery of the flow deflector where it contacts the core barrel. Though this embodiment uses a weld to secure the flow deflector to the core barrel it should be appreciated that other forms of joining the deflector to the core barrel can be employed. After welding the full penetration weld at the J groove weld preparation to the core barrel the wall thickness of the 0.346 0.88 cm offset will be approximately 0.50 1.27 cm . After completing the J groove weld a 0.25 0.64 cm reinforcing weld may be used around the full penetration weld . The final weld geometry is illustrated in .

Accordingly the improved design of the flow deflector enables tire joint between the flow deflector and the barrel to accommodate the relative differential expansion of the flow deflector and core barrel at their mating interface during a direct vessel injection transient.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. For example the flow deflector of this invention could be used in combination with any inlet nozzle to the pressure vessel and not just the direct vessel injection nozzle. Additionally it should be appreciated that the dimensions disclosed are exemplary and are not intended to limit the invention. Accordingly the particular embodiments disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention which is to be given the full breadth of the appended claims and any and all equivalents thereof.

