---

title: Multi-terminal electrically actuated switch
abstract: A multi-terminal electrically actuated switch comprises a source electrode, a drain electrode, and an active region physically connected to both electrodes. The active region comprises at least one primary active region comprising at least one material that can be doped or undoped to change its electrical conductivity, and a secondary active region comprising at least one material for providing a source/sink of ionic species that act as dopants for the primary active region(s). A gate electrode is physically connected to the source/sink region. Methods of operating the switch are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07763880&OS=07763880&RS=07763880
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07763880
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070214
---
The present application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 542 986 filed on Oct. 3 2006 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention has been made with Government support under Agreement number HR0011 0503 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed to electronic switches and more particularly to multi terminal electrically actuated switches.

During the past decade many researchers have been intrigued by the prospect of building electronic circuits based on molecular or molecular scale components. The potential of molecular electronics has been to bring the power of synthetic chemistry to the electronics industry by creating purpose built devices that may be able to at least partially assemble themselves into useful circuits. This prospective has led to a significant number of studies of the electronic properties of molecules and the demonstration of some proof of principles of memory and logic circuits.

Studies of switching in nanometer scale crossed wire devices have previously been reported that could be switched reversibly and had an ON to OFF conductance ratio of 10. These devices have been used to construct crossbar circuits and provide a promising route for the creation of ultra high density nonvolatile memory. A series connection of cross wire switches that can be used to fabricate a latch has also been demonstrated such a latch is an important component for logic circuits and for communication between logic and memory. New logic families that can be constructed entirely from crossbar arrays of switches or as hybrid structures composed of switches and transistors have been described. These new logic families have the potential to dramatically increase the computing efficiency of CMOS circuits thereby enabling performance improvements of orders of magnitude without having to shrink transistors or to even replace CMOS for some applications if necessary. However it is desired to improve the performance of the devices that are presently fabricated especially their cyclability.

A multi terminal switch comprises a source electrode a drain electrode at least one gate electrode and an active region. The active region may comprise at least one primary active region comprising at least one material for transporting and hosting ions that act as dopants to control the flow of electrons from the source electrode to the drain electrode or vice versa and a secondary active region comprising at least one material for providing a source of ionic dopants for the primary active region s . The source electrode and drain electrode are physically connected to the primary active region and the gate electrode is physically connected to the secondary active region. Applying the appropriate voltage bias magnitude and polarity to the gate electrode will either inject or eject ionized dopants into or out of the primary active region from the secondary active region and thus electrically connect or disconnect respectively the source and drain electrodes to each other in a non volatile manner. Methods of operating the switch are also provided.

The figures depict embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that other embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

As used herein the term self aligned as applied to junction means that the junction that forms the switch and or other electrical connection between two wires is created wherever two wires either of which may be coated or functionalized cross each other because it is the act of crossing that creates the junction.

The term self assembled as used herein refers to a system that naturally adopts some geometric pattern because of the identity of the components of the system the system achieves at least a local minimum in its energy by adopting this configuration.

The term singly configurable means that a switch can change its state only once via an irreversible process such as an oxidation or reduction reaction such a switch can be the basis of a programmable read only memory PROM for example.

The term reconfigurable means that a switch can change its state multiple times via a reversible process such as an oxidation or reduction in other words the switch can be opened and closed multiple times such as the memory bits in a random access memory RAM .

Micron scale dimensions refers to dimensions that range from 1 micrometer to a few micrometers in size.

Sub micron scale dimensions refers to dimensions that range from 1 micrometer down to 0.04 micrometers.

Nanometer scale dimensions refers to dimensions that range from 0.1 nanometers to 50 nanometers 0.05 micrometers .

Micron scale and submicron scale wires refers to rod or ribbon shaped conductors or semiconductors with widths or diameters having the dimensions of 0.04 to 10 micrometers heights that can range from a few nanometers to a micrometer and lengths of several micrometers and longer.

A crossbar is an array of switches that can connect each wire in one set of parallel wires to every member of a second set of parallel wires that intersects the first set usually the two sets of wires are perpendicular to each other but this is not a necessary condition .

As used herein the functional dimension of the device is measured in nanometers typically less than 50 nm but the lateral dimensions may be nanometers sub microns or microns.

Although individual wires in the figures are shown with square or rectangular cross sections wires can also have circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The wires may also have many different widths or diameters and aspect ratios or eccentricities. The term nanowire crossbar may refer to crossbars having one or more layers of sub microscale wires microscale wires or wires with larger dimensions in addition to nanowires.

As is well known such switches may be used as the basis for memories e.g. the storage of a bit of information 1 or 0 as either a closed or open switch in a cross point memory for configuration bits in a logic circuit that resembles a Field Programmable Gate Array or as the basis for a wired logic Programmable Logic Array. These switches also find uses in a wide variety of other applications.

In accordance with the teachings herein an improved electrically actuated switch is provided that may be built at the micro or nano scale and used as a component in a wide variety of electronic circuits. The switch may be used to connect two different wires such as a pair of crossing wires shown in which may be two wires in a larger crossbar array or it may be used within a wire in order to allow or block the flow of current along the wire such as shown in .

The improved switches can be used as the basis for memories switches and logic circuits and functions as described above.

As noted above the primary active material has certain properties that are useful in the practice of the present invention. One of these properties of the material is that it is a weakly ionic conductor. The definition of a weakly ionic conductor is based on the application for which a switch is designed. The mobility and the diffusion constant for a species in a lattice are directly proportional to one another via the Einstein relation . Thus if the mobility of ionized species in a lattice is very high so is the diffusion constant. In general it is desired for a switching device to stay in a particular state ON or OFF for an amount of time that may range from a fraction of a second to years depending on the application. Thus the diffusion constant for such a device is in an embodiment low enough to ensure the desired level of stability to avoid inadvertently turning the device from ON to OFF or vice versa via ionized species diffusion rather than by intentionally setting the state of the switch with a voltage pulse. Therefore a weakly ionic conductor is one in which the ion mobility and thus the diffusion constant is small enough to ensure the stability of the ON or OFF state of the device for as long as necessary under the desired conditions e.g. the device does not change state because of diffusion of the dopants . Strongly ionic conductors would have large ionized species mobilities and thus would not be stable against diffusion.

The structure of an embodiment of the switch of the invention is shown in employing the in line configuration of . The structure of another embodiment of the switch of the invention is shown in employing the cross point configuration of .

In an embodiment of switch depicted in the two electrodes are both Pt metal the semiconducting ionic conductor is TiO the dopant source is TiO and the optional non covalent interface comprises the thin molecular layer between the electrode and the primary switching material . The formula TiOindicates that the titanium dioxide has a small deficit of oxygen atoms in the crystal structure the sites where the missing O atoms would be are positively charged vacancies. The dopant species in this case is an oxygen vacancy. Another embodiment of this switch is depicted in as switch which has the same active region switch structure as .

A switch that operates via the injection or ejection of donors is turned ON i.e. the electrical conductance is increased or turned OFF the electrical conductance is decreased by increasing or decreasing respectively the number of donor dopant sites in the semiconductor layer . These donor sites may be interstitial cation species in the host lattice of the semiconductor anion vacancies in the host lattice interstitial impurities such as H or other interstitial or substitutional impurities that act as an electron donor for the semiconductor. Since the thickness of the semiconductor layer is less than the depletion width for carriers in a semiconductor of moderately high doping e.g. a thickness of approximately 100 nm this means that the thin semiconductor is completely depleted of free carriers because it is in intimate contact on at least one side with a metal. The electrons reside just inside the metal contacts on either side of the semiconductor . As an example a doping concentration of 10dopant atoms per cm this is moderately high corresponds to a depletion layer thickness of 30 nm. A doping concentration of 10cm this is very high doping but entirely possible for many oxides corresponds to a depletion thickness of 3 nm.

In the OFF state the thin semiconductor layer is essentially intrinsic e.g. there are very few dopants in the lattice. In this case there is essentially a Schottky barrier on both sides of the semiconductor and the alignment of the semiconductor bands with respect to the metal Fermi level is approximately mid gap depending on a variety of physical and chemical issues. For an oxide semiconductor such as TiO which is also a weak ionic conductor this OFF state of the device is the fully oxidized state e.g. the one in which the stoichiometry of the material is as close to TiOas possible and for which there is very little impurity or defect doping. For a semiconductor with an appropriately wide bandgap there is a large tunnel barrier for current to flow which makes the conductivity of the OFF switch low.

Without subscribing to any particular theory it appears that conduction through the primary material is via quantum mechanical tunneling of electrons. When the semiconducting material is essentially intrinsic the tunneling barrier will be very high and thus the conductivity through the switch is low OFF state . When a significant number of dopant species have been injected into the semiconductor the tunneling barrier will be diminished by the potential of the charged species. This will increase the conductivity of the switch ON state .

In this embodiment an exemplary thickness of the switch is 2 nm and an exemplary total width wof the TiO TiOlayer is 3 nm.

In as an example the switching material may be an anatase a polytype of titanium dioxide nanocrystal sandwiched between two Pt electrodes . For the purposes of this discussion it is assumed that this nanocrystal measures 1.9 nm 1.9 nm 2.9 nm and contains a total of 75 anatase unit cells or 900 atoms which shows that it is small for a band structure to develop but large for a quantum chemical calculation. At this stage a qualitative picture of the electronic states of the system may be sketched using a band approach but this should not to be taken too literally. A single impurity atom or vacancy in this nanocrystal would yield a doping density of 10cm and it may be assumed that the nanocrystal may contain as many as 2 oxygen vacancies e.g. 12 . The metal semiconductor contact regions electrically resemble Schottky barriers modified by the nanometer scale of the system so the electrical properties will not be averaged over the large distances for which the theory of semiconductor metal contacts have been developed.

The TiOregion adjacent the non covalent region is stoichiometric and thus highly resistive as indicated by the large tunneling barrier. The TiOregion adjacent the second electrode is highly oxygen deficient and thus this region is highly conductive. In the band diagram at the top of both interfaces are Schottky barriers. On the left is a metal insulator semiconductor interface and on the right is an interface between a metal and a highly donor doped semiconductor for which the band gap has decreased somewhat from the value for stoichiometric TiO.

The Pt TiOinterface on the left hand side of the diagram of represents a non covalently bonded interface between the metal electrode and the semiconductor that is mediated by the intervening molecular layer . A rough band diagram representation is depicted to show that there is a potential barrier at this interface . This region of the film is designed and fabricated to be stoichiometric TiO. The electron affinity of anatase is estimated to be about 4.0 eV and the work function of Pt is 5.64 eV so a potential barrier height of 1.6 eV can be estimated at this interface . The Pt Fermi level should be near the midgap region for anatase which has a bulk bandgap of 3.2 eV although it might be wider for the nanocrystal because of quantum confinement. Even for a doping level of 10cm the depletion length is 3 nm in anatase so the nanocrystal is fully depleted and thus positively charged. The electrons reside in a narrow region in the Pt contacts.

There is a second Pt contact to the nanocrystal on the right hand side of the diagram of . In an embodiment the system is designed and fabricated such that this region of the titanium dioxide has a significant concentration of oxygen vacancies. Thus in moving from left to right in the value of x in TiOgoes from zero to a value as high as 0.04. This is a high enough concentration of oxygen vacancies to create a large number of donor states that significantly broaden the density of states near the conduction band edge and thus effectively narrow the band gap. This is shown in the band diagram of as a lowering of the potential barrier at this interface compared to the left hand side caused by the narrowing of the band gap and significant band bending because of the extremely high concentration of positively charged donor states.

In the as fabricated state illustrated by the potential barrier represented by the anatase nanocrystal is large and thus the conductance of this state of the switch is low this is the switch OFF state. If the left hand Pt electrode is grounded and a positive potential is applied to the right hand electrode which becomes the anode of a nanoscale electrochemical cell then the positively charged oxygen vacancies will be forced to drift toward the grounded electrode which is the cathode. The fact that there is a large concentration of vacancies that already exist near the anode means that no vacancies have to be created in order to turn the switch ON. The enthalpy of formation of oxygen vacancies in nanocrystalline anatase is very much larger than the activation energy for vacancy hopping so having a structure in which there are pre existing oxygen vacancies or other appropriate positively charged dopants near the anode of the switch eliminates the expenditure of a large amount of energy that would occur during preconditioning of a switch to form the vacancies electrically.

In which represent the initial stage of turning the switch ON pushing oxygen vacancies away from the anode means that the TiOis being oxidized i.e. the value of x is decreasing by a small amount . Because of the initially large concentration of vacancies near the anode this small oxidation has very little effect on the electronic conductivity of region . On the other hand the initially stoichiometric or oxidized material near the cathode is being reduced e.g. the stoichiometry is now TiO. This has a significant impact on the energy bands in the middle of the nanocrystal as shown in . The total effective barrier width for electron tunneling through the nanocrystal is reduced and the conductivity increases.

If the bias is increased or applied for a longer time more oxygen vacancies will drift to the left and narrow the tunneling barrier even more as shown in . The switch is now fully in the ON state with even more vacancies now in such that the stoichiometry of this region is denoted TiO. Inverting the polarity of the voltage on the right hand electrode reverses the sense of anode and cathode and causes the oxygen vacancies to drift back to the right hand side recovering the state of and turning the switch back OFF if this reversed polarity bias is applied for a long enough time.

Without subscribing to any particular theory it appears that the molecules in the noncovalent region in the device only play a passive role. They form a thin insulating region between the first Pt electrode and the nanocrystal which can assist in the formation of the Schottky barrier. The fact that this interface of the nanocrystal is not covalently bonded to the Pt electrode may make it easier for oxygen vacancies to drift toward this interface since there is essentially an internal free surface to accommodate lattice distortions. Finally although the crystal presented here is considered a nanocrystal it may be that the primary role of the molecules is to ensure that the primary active material e.g. titanium dioxide is actually amorphous.

As shown in B and B the equivalent circuit is just two resistors in series one resistor Rthat represents the series resistance of the wiring and any component of the switch that does not change with time and a variable resistor R t that changes with time depending on the applied voltage and currents that flow through it. Assuming Ohm s law applies instead of the tunneling resistance that actually occurs which dramatically complicates the mathematics . 1.

The variable resistance is proportional to the width w t of the stoichiometric TiO present in the nanocrystal 2. where the material behind the drift front of the vacancies is considered to have essentially zero resistance is the resistivity of the undoped titanium dioxide and A is the area of the nanocrystal normal to the direction of current flow. For the initial condition in which the switch is OFF and a bias is applied to turn it ON the rate of change of the width of undoped titanium dioxide is just the vacancy drift rate in the applied field across the undoped width 

Thus the assumptions made above yield a fairly complex mathematical expression in which the voltage at time t of the switch involves the integral of the current and or voltage over time which introduces a path dependence to the switch. Equation 5 is illustrative of a wider variety of descriptive equations for the switch operation and the present invention includes ion drift switching mechanisms that are described by other equations. For example if space charge is important for the ion drift then the functional dependence on the current in equation 5 goes from an integral over the current to the first power I to an integral over the second power I . The most efficient circuit model for such a system may require a memristor. As seen in the sequence of the equivalent circuit in going from to to the switch is closing so w t and thus R t are getting smaller with time that is the resistance is going down to turn the switch ON.

In even more dopant donors have been injected into the semiconductor forming TiO. The semiconductor conduction bands have been bent down further by the increased positive charge within the depleted semiconductor thus decreasing the width and height of the tunnel barrier and increasing the conductivity of the layer. This is the fully switch ON state of the system.

As long as the doping level of the semiconductor film is not so large that the resistance drops essentially to zero it is possible to reverse the drift of the donor dopant ions and eject them from the semiconductor by reversing the polarity of the voltage applied to the switch.

Doping of the semiconductor layer is a function of both voltage to exceed any energy barrier for ion drift and time the longer the system is held at voltage the more dopants accumulate or the integral of the current.

In the description above the switches are designed and fabricated to have a particular ON OFF polarity. The switch is turned ON by applying a positive voltage bias to the electrode that has the excess of positively charged dopant species and it is turned OFF by applying a negative voltage bias to that same electrode. However it is possible to also design and fabricate switches with a configurable polarity e.g. to determine the ON OFF polarity of a switch during an electronic configuration process performed after a circuit containing switches has been fabricated. This configuration step is also known as field programming. This may be done by creating a structure in which the material next to both metal electrodes has no doping and the material in the middle has an excess of dopants. Thus during an initial programming stage for a circuit a negative voltage bias to attract positively charged dopants may be applied to those electrodes that one desires to be the ON electrode for an applied positive bias and conversely a positive voltage to repel positively charged dopants may be applied to those electrodes that one desires to be the OFF electrode for an applied negative bias. In this fashion it is possible to configure an array of switches such that the ON OFF polarity of the upper electrodes of the switches alternates. This particular configuration is especially useful if one is building an array of latches for example. It is also possible to invert the ON OFF polarity of any switch disclosed in this application by applying a positive bias voltage to the ON electrode for a long enough time that the dopants all drift to the opposite electrode of the switch.

The switches disclosed herein may be fabricated using a wide range of material deposition and processing techniques. First the initial wire metal or semiconductor is fabricated using conventional techniques such as photolithography or electron beam lithography or by more advanced techniques such as imprint lithography. This may be a bottom wire of a crossed wire pair as shown in or it may be a wire that is being created in a via to create a connection normal to the plane of a circuit as shown in for example.

In the scheme described here the next component of the switch to be fabricated is the non covalent interface material and may be omitted if greater mechanical strength is required at the expense of slower switching at higher applied voltages. This is an optional component of the switch or switch as mentioned above. In this case a layer of some inert material is deposited. This could be a molecular monolayer formed by a Langmuir Blodgett LB process or it could be a Self Assembled Monolayer SAM . In general this molecular layer may form only weak van der Waals type bonds to the bottom electrode and the primary active material of the switch. Alternatively this layer may be a thin layer of ice deposited onto a cooled substrate. The material to form the ice may be an inert gas such as argon Ar or it could be a species such as carbon dioxide CO . In this case the ice is a sacrificial layer that prevents strong chemical bonding between the bottom electrode and the switch material and is lost from the system by heating the sample later in the processing sequence to sublime the ice away. One skilled in this art can easily conceive of other ways to form weakly bonded interfaces between the electrode and the switch .

Next the material for the primary active layer is deposited. This can be done by a wide variety of conventional physical and chemical techniques including evaporation from a Knudsen cell electron beam evaporation from a crucible sputtering from a target or various forms of chemical vapor or beam growth from reactive precursors. The film may be in the range from 1 to 30 nanometers nm thick and it may be grown to be free of dopants. In this case the as grown structure is switch OFF. Depending on the thickness of the film it may be nanocrystalline nanoporous or amorphous in order to increase the speed with which ions can drift in the material to achieve doping by ion injection or undoping by ion ejection from . Appropriate growth conditions such as deposition speed and substrate temperature may be chosen to achieve the chemical composition and local atomic structure desired for this initially insulating or low conductivity film .

The next layer is the dopant source layer or secondary active layer for the primary switching material which may also be deposited by any of the techniques mentioned above. This material is chosen to provide the appropriate doping species for the primary active material. This secondary material is chosen to be chemically compatible with the primary material e.g. the two materials should not react chemically and irreversibly with each other to form a third material. If one is fabricating switches to be configured later another layer primary material is then deposited on top of the secondary material .

As mentioned above one example of a pair of materials that can be used as the primary and secondary active switching layers is TiOand TiO respectively. TiOis a semiconductor with an approximately 3.2 eV bandgap. It is also a weak ionic conductor. A thin film of TiOwill create the tunnel barrier required to create the switch OFF configuration and the TiOforms an ideal source of oxygen vacancies to dope the TiOand make it conductive. A second film of the primary active material TiO can be deposited if one desires to fabricate a configurable ON OFF polarity switch.

Finally the second metal electrode is fabricated on top of the secondary active layer or the second primary active layer of the switch in a manner similar to which the first wire was created. If the system is a crossed wire device an etching process is used to remove the deposited switching material that is not under the top wires in order to isolate the devices. If desired a planarization process can be added after depositing the bottom set of wires or after the second set of wires to provide a flat surface on top of the switches.

An issue with respect to fabricating switch devices is to carefully control the dopant concentration in the material whether that dopant is the presence of a different type of atom or the absence of a particular atom e.g. a vacancy from the lattice. The dopant species may be introduced into the growth medium or the amount of one component may be decreased in order to induce vacancies. Another approach is to grow a high quality and pure layer of the host material and then to deposit a carefully determined amount of a species directly on top of the host material. This may be a dopant species that will then diffuse into the host material or it may be a reactive material that will react chemically with one of the components of the host to induce vacancies in the host lattice. An example of such an approach is to deposit a small amount of aluminum on top of a high quality and pure layer of titanium dioxide. The aluminum reacts partially with the oxygen of the titanium dioxide to form some alumina and leave vacancies in the titanium dioxide. This is a process similar to delta doping currently practiced in the semiconductor industry to provide a very thin layer of very highly doped semiconductor material.

There is a wide range of materials that exhibit the desired combination of properties electronically semiconducting or insulating and weakly ionic conductor to enable dopant species to be injected by drift into and ejected out of the active region of the switch. In general excellent switching materials are the compound semiconducting oxides and nitrides but semiconducting sulfides phosphides chlorides selenides arsenides and bromides also provide switching. In general any semiconducting material that is also a weak ionic conductor with respect to species that can electrically dope the semiconductor will work in the practice of the present invention and its various embodiments. In other words possible switch compounds are semiconducting compounds with significant ionic contribution to the bonding. A good combination is a primary active material that is undoped and stoichiometric and thus a good insulator combined with a secondary source sink of the same or related parent material that either contains a large concentration of anion vacancies or other dopant species that can be drifted into the primary material under the application of an applied bias voltage. The idea is that the source sink system is very conductive and thus changing the doping concentration has a relatively small effect on the conductivity of this secondary material but since the primary material is essentially intrinsic then even a small amount of dopant will have a very dramatic effect on the conductivity of this material.

The switching compounds employed in the practice of the present invention are generally the oxides sulfides selenides nitrides phosphides arsenides chlorides and bromides of the transition and rare earth metals with the alkaline earth metals often being present in compounds. Further there are the various alloys of like compounds with each other which can have a wide range of composition if they are mutually soluble in each other. Then there are the mixed compounds in which there are two three or more different metal atoms combined with some number of the electronegative elements. The dopants may be anion vacancies or different valent elements doped into the host.

Materials involving the elements Ti Zr and Hf are particularly attractive for switches that can be compatible with Si integrated circuit technology since the primary oxidation state of all three metals is 4 the same as Si and therefore these elements would not create unintentional doping of the Si. These compounds are also known as titania zirconia and hafnia respectively and also by other names specific to the various polytypes of each.

Another embodiment includes the alloys of these three oxides in pairs or with all three present simultaneously e.g. TiZrHfO where x y z 1 . Related sets of compounds include the titanates zirconates and hafnates which are represented by the specific example SrTiO where Sr is the divalent element strontium. There is a wide variety of such compounds in which Ca Ba and other divalent elements e.g. Mg Zn Cd may be substituted for Sr and Zr and Hf substituted for Ti. These compounds may be represented as ABOcompounds where A is at least one divalent element and B is at least one of Ti Zr and Hf and may have the perovskite structure.

It is also possible to utilize alloys of these various compounds such as CaSrBaTiZrHfO where a b c 1 and x y z 1. There is also a wide variety of other oxides of the transition and rare earth metals with different valencies that may be used both individually and as more complex compounds. In each case the ionized dopant species may be an oxygen vacancy or an aliovalent e.g. different valence element doped into the host material.

Yet another embodiment of compounds includes the sulfides and selenides of the transition metals with some ionic bonding character essentially the S and Se analogues of the oxides mentioned above.

Still another embodiment of compounds includes the semiconducting nitrides such as AlN GaN ScN YN LaN rare earth nitrides and alloys of these compounds and more complex mixed metal nitrides.

A still further embodiment of compounds includes the phosphides and arsenides of various transition and rare earth metals e.g. Sc Y La etc.

In all cases either anion vacancies or aliovalent elements can be used as the mobile dopant species in the compounds above.

It is also possible to fabricate a primary active layer or a secondary active layer from sublayers of different materials or compounds chosen from the examples above.

The dopants employed in the practice of the various embodiment are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkali and alkaline earth cations transition metal cations rare earth cations oxygen anions or vacancies chalcogenide anions or vacancies nitrogen anions or vacancies pnictide anions or vacancies or halide anions or vacancies.

Specific examples of the combination of primary materials and secondary materials along with the dopant species employed for each combination are set forth in the Table below. Based on the teachings herein it is clear that one skilled in this art can develop other combinations of primary and secondary materials that provide the benefits taught.

As discussed above the conductance of the switch can be varied over a wide range. The embodiments described below are with respect to the fact that the switches described herein are actually continuous e.g. the resistance of the switches changes continuously but somewhat abruptly from the OFF state to the ON state and back. This is shown explicitly in the schematic diagrams B B of the switch equivalent circuit which shows a variable resistor in series with a fixed resistor.

In one embodiment an electronically settable variable resistor can be used as a trimming resistor to adjust the impedance of a circuit. There is a certain amount of variability in all electronic circuits which means that circuits that are fabricated will have slightly different operating parameters in terms of their speed of operation and the delay time for signals to propagate through the circuit. In the past this problem was handled by installing mechanically adjustable trim pots in circuit boards. An expert engineer was required to test and tune up a circuit in order to optimize its properties this was done by examining the electronic signal at various test points on a circuit board using an oscilloscope and then using a screw driver to adjust the trim pot in other words to change the resistance of the variable resistor to bring the impedance of the circuit up to its optimal performance. This was required when first testing a circuit to ensure that it worked properly and with time various elements in a circuit could change so an expert technician was required to retest and retune a circuit in the field. As circuits became more integrated this requirement for tuning became less necessary as the reproducibility of integrated circuit components improved. Also there is no place on an integrated circuit to place a trim pot so for the most part integrated circuits cannot be tuned. As feature sizes are getting smaller the variability of component properties is necessarily increasing just because a single atom determines the lower limit of the uncertainty in a feature size. Thus future generations of circuits will need to have trim pots to be able to tune and optimize the circuits. In fact as device variability gets larger it will be likely that circuits will not work at all if they cannot be tuned. Thus we would use switches in various positions within an integrated circuit along with feedback circuits to enable a circuit not only to be tuned up when it was first turned on but also to continually optimize the performance of a circuit during operation. Thus it should be possible for a circuit with such switches and feedback elements to continually improve with time. As certain components in the circuit failed the circuit would use the switches to reconfigure and re optimize itself. Thus such circuits should have the ability to degrade gracefully with age rather than die a sudden death when a single component failed.

In another embodiment in addition to a circuit needing to be tuned up it is also desirable to change the operating characteristics of some circuits to match a particular signal input for making various measurements. For example many transducers or measurement systems perform best when there is a bridge circuit in which the resistance of a variable resistor is tuned in order to balance a differential circuit to make a very precise measurement. One example is measuring a precise voltage difference for a thermocouple but there are many other examples of bridge circuits used for measurements.

In yet another embodiment an application of analog switches is in learning circuits or neural nets. In these circuits a training procedure is used to teach a circuit how to respond to a particular input. This is done by comparing the properties of a component to an expected property and resetting the value of the component in response to the input value using a feedback approach. Today most neural nets are implemented in software using conventional integrated circuits and processing units a true neural net implemented in hardware with adjustable analog switches will be far more efficient.

In still a further embodiment other analog and mixed analog and digital circuits can be improved by having a continuously tunable resistance that is non volatile e.g. a baseline value for the resistor is set during an initialization phase and after that during operation the resistance is adjusted in order to respond to operating conditions of the circuit. This may be done for example to compensate for changes in the fundamental operating characteristics of the circuit with changes in temperature or fluctuations in power supply voltages or other changing environmental conditions.

The foregoing description is directed to a solid state switch that comprises a source sink of an ionic dopant and a weakly ionic conductor that is also an electronic semiconductor or insulator that can be doped. In the foregoing description all of the embodiments of the switch are based on two terminal devices. Thus the same set of electronics is used to both set the state of the switch and to operate the device in which the switch is located. In some applications it may not be possible to both set the state of the switch and operate the device with one set of electronics. Also the voltage requirements and current capacity for setting the switch may be larger than required for most device operations so it may be useful to have one set of electronics e.g. transistors to set the ON OFF state of the switch and a separate set of electronics for the operation of the device.

The following description is directed to a set of three and four terminal devices that accomplish this task. These devices may comprise at least the following 1 a gate electrode to which an above threshold voltage may be applied to cause ionized dopants to drift into or out of the conduction region dopant host material for the device 2 an optional counter gate electrode for a four terminal device which is placed opposite the gate in the structure and is usually grounded to help shape the electrical field in which the ionized dopants will drift 3 a source sink of ionized dopants located adjacent to the gate electrode 4 a host region of semiconducting or insulating material that can be doped or undoped by drifting ionized dopants into or out of the material and which acts as an insulating barrier or conductive connection between source and drain electrodes 5 a source electrode which is one of the two electrodes connected by the switch and 6 a drain electrode which is the other electrode connected by the switch.

As with the two terminal devices described above these switches can be operated in an essentially digital mode in which they switch between an ON and an OFF state for use in memory or logic circuits or they can be operated in an analog mode in which the switches have a variable resistance that is used for circuit tuning compensating for changes in components analog measurements or various analog computations including neural nets. These switches may be used in conjunction with other switches with transistors and with other circuit elements in order to build a variety of integrated circuit structures. In addition they may have an all planar geometry or they may have a stacked or three dimensional geometry depending on their application and the practicalities of the layout of the circuit in which they are used. These circuits may be readily fabricated using standard methods of integrated circuit manufacture or by using more advanced and or specialized methods such as electron beam lithography or imprint lithography. The materials used for these switches are the same as those described above for the two terminal switches and the methods of fabricating these multi terminal switches are the same as those described above along with conventional FET fabrication techniques.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in this art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing description of specific embodiments of the present invention is presented for the purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive of or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in this art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

