---

title: Providing results from external rule engines based on rule engine vocabularies
abstract: An enhanced rule engine, in which a rule-evaluated result that is received from an external rule engine based on a context transmitted to the external rule engine for evaluation by the rule and on a schema document serializing an automatically generated vocabulary transmitted to the external rule engine is output. The schema document defines the business rule based on a context description and a result description included in the vocabulary, and the context and the result are respectively specified according to the context description and the result description.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937354&OS=07937354&RS=07937354
owner: SAP AG
number: 07937354
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071015
---
A rule engine allows the execution logic of a process to be modeled in a straightforward and declarative manner. For example a business rule engine processes the execution logic of a business process. In order to achieve higher agility and flexibility business rule management systems BRMSs separate business related application logic from other types of application logic so that changes to business process models are easier to implement and do not necessarily require specialized programming skills. These BRMSs are used for example in public sector financial and insurance contexts.

In order to exchange data with an external rule engine a local rule engine exchanges a vocabulary referred to as a business vocabulary BV a rule engine vocabulary or an intermediate vocabulary with the external rule engine where the vocabulary provides the format type description or structure of the data to be exchanged between the local and external rule engines. The vocabulary is used by the external rule engine to define rules such that contexts received by the external rule engine are appropriately processed and responses are properly formatted and structured for receipt by the local rule engine.

According to one general implementation a BV including a context description and a result description that respectively define an input to and an output of an external business rule engine is automatically generated based on using generic data structures where the context description further includes a context data type that is native to the external business rule engine An expression including a connection to the external business rule engine is defined and the BV is serialized in an eXtensible Markup Language XML schema document XSD that when received at the external business rule engine allows a business rule to be defined based on the context description and the result description. The schema document is transmitted via the connection to the external business rule engine using a remote procedure call and a context specified according to the context description is passed to the expression. The context is transmitted via the connection as the input to the external business rule engine for evaluation by the business rule a business rule evaluated result specified according to the result description is received via the connection as the output of the external business rule engine and the result is output.

According to another general implementation a method includes outputting a rule evaluated result received from an external rule engine based on a context transmitted to the external rule engine for evaluation by the rule and on a schema document serializing an automatically generated vocabulary transmitted to the external rule engine. The schema document defines the business rule based on a context description and a result description included in the vocabulary and the context and the result are respectively specified according to the context description and the result description.

According to another general implementation a rule engine vocabulary including a context description and a result description that respectively define an input to and an output of an external rule engine is automatically generated the rule engine vocabulary is serialized in a schema document that when received at the external rule engine allows a rule to be defined based on the context description and the result description and the schema document is transmitted to the external rule engine. A context specified according to the context description is transmitted as the input to the external rule engine for evaluation by the rule a rule evaluated result specified according to the result description is received as the output of the external rule engine and the result is output.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For instance the rule engine vocabulary may be generated based on using generic data structures such as a field structure or table data element. An expression including a connection to the external rule engine may be defined and the context may be passed to the expression thereby causing the schema document and the context to be transmitted via the connection and the result to be received via the connection. Defining the expression may further include querying the rule engine to determine connection parameters and selecting the defined expression from a list of possible expressions based on the determined connection parameters. The context may be automatically transmitted to the external rule engine via a remote procedure call if the expression is triggered. The result is received via the remote procedure call such as a SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVA programming language remote procedure call.

In further examples the context description may further include a context data type that is native to the external rule engine. The rule may be defined at the external rule engine based on the context description and the result description. The schema document may be an XSD. The external rule engine may be a business rule engine such as a BRMS the rule engine vocabulary may be a BV and the external rule engine may be a business rule engine.

According to another general implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in a machine readable medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to automatically generate a rule engine vocabulary including a context description and a result description that respectively define an input to and an output of an external rule engine to serialize the rule engine vocabulary in a schema document that when received at the external rule engine allows a rule to be defined based on the context description and the result description and to transmit the schema document to the external rule engine. The computer program product also includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to transmit a context specified according to the context description as the input to the external rule engine for evaluation by the rule to receive a rule evaluated result specified according to the result description as the output of the external rule engine and to output the result.

According to another general implementation a device includes a processor an interface and an output module. The processor automatically generates a rule engine vocabulary including a context description and a result description that respectively define an input to and an output of an external rule engine and serializes the rule engine vocabulary in a schema document that when received at the external rule engine allows a rule to be defined based on the context description and the result description. The interface transmits the schema document to the external rule engine transmits a context specified according to the context description as the input to the external rule engine for evaluation by the rule and receives a rule evaluated result specified according to the result description as the output of the external rule engine. The output module outputs the result.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A business process is a series of business tasks or activities executed in a coordinated order. Applications allow business processes that span multiple functional areas to be modeled using business objects and functions that are processed by a local business rule engine.

A task is the atomic business process component that describes an activity or alters a business process s control flow for instance by splitting or joining the business process flow. An exemplary business process may include a dedicated begin task and sequentially executed first through third tasks that each occur prior to the dedicated end task. The execution of certain tasks may require the invocation of an external business rule engine that provides partner supplied functionalities or logic.

Under these circumstances the local business rule engine also referred to herein as a primary or proprietary business rule engine or a Function Derivation Tool FDT may be integrated with external or third party business rule engines or third party BRMSs . For instance an entity may wish to access a pre configured third party payroll accounting rule set that is provided or optimized for a specific platform or application. By describing these other business rule engines as external it is merely intended that these engines are distinct from the primary or local business rule engine. Thus a business rule engine may be referred to as external even if it is executing on the same machine as the local business rule engine or is associated with the same operator as the local business rule engine.

In order to exchange data with the external rule engine the local rule engine first exchanges a vocabulary with the external rule engine where the vocabulary provides the format type description or structure of the data to be exchanged between the local and external rule engines. The vocabulary allows causes or effects the definition of rules at the external rule engine such that input data or contexts received by the external rule engine is appropriately processed and output data or responses are properly formatted and structured for the local rule engine. Based on this vocabulary exchange rule evaluated result data may be easily imported by the local rule engine and processed further.

The vocabulary is automatically generated at the local rule engine during a design time phase using context and result information. During a runtime phase i.e. after the deployment or definition of the rule at the external rule engine the local rule engine may invoke the deployed rule at the external rule engine by passing data i.e. the context to the external rule engine. Using the rule that was defined based on the expected context format type description or structure the external rule engine receives and processes the context using the rule and returns a resulting data set to the local rule engine in the appropriate format.

In doing so a business entity is better able to fulfill customer requirements particularly in the public sector insurance and finance fields. Furthermore functional gaps of local rule engines are filled since leading BRMSs which utilize proprietary or specialized rule engines may still be used by the local rule engines. Thus the user is not committed to a particular FDT and is offered a best of breed approach to modeling business processes thereby enhancing the overall customer experience. From the perspective of the FDT producer seamless integration of third party rule engines may improve their market position as well since BRMS providers may tailor their own products to enhance existing FDT solutions.

The FDT system which may implement the SAP NETWEAVER FDT includes a local rule engine that defines and processes business rules and that outputs data using a comprehensive application programming interface API . The local rule engine is a hardware or software module that manages and automates business rules. The BRMS includes an external rule engine that also defines and processes business rules and that outputs results of the external rule processing to the FDT system .

In one example configuration the external rule engine includes specialized customized proprietary or protected such as by patent or trade secret business rules that the local rule engine may wish to use or access. In a financial context the external rule engine may provide a credit scoring function which accepts inputs regarding a customer s credit history such as annual income or recent payment delinquencies and which outputs a credit score that rates the consumer against a pool of consumers. If the FDT system is operated by a mortgage provider the resulting credit score may be used to determine whether to grant a loan to a consumer.

In this example the operator of the BRMS may not want to release the credit scoring logic used by the external rule engine to derive the credit score to prevent entities from discovering weaknesses that might artificially inflate a person s credit score. At the same time the operator of the FDT system may not want a user of the local rule engine to know that a credit score is being sought or require a user to take any extra steps to access credit score data.

Thus and using the enhanced approach described herein the local rule engine may seamlessly interface with the BRMS by executing a function that is itself internal to the FDT system but which includes an expression that calls the external rule engine . In the described example the expression may call the external rule engine by supplying context information that uniquely identifies a customer in a format structure or data type that is readily understood by the external rule engine based on an earlier provided BV that assists allows causes or effects the definition of the external business rule.

The external rule engine evaluates or processes the context using the rule and provides result information or simply a result back to the local rule engine in a format structure or data type that is readily understood by the local rule engine . The result provided by the external rule engine is parsed by the expression or parse tree of the local rule engine associated with the called function and an output of the function is returned to the user of the FDT system based on the result.

Thus the function of the Function Derivation Tool refers to the triggering of processing of rule based logic at the external rule engine through the use of a place holding expression that seamlessly invokes communication to an external rule engine. The derivation of the Function Derivation Tool refers to a parse tree or expression tree that provides for the parsing of contextual input. For example the derivation may be as sequence of statements such as in logic or mathematics indicating that a result is a natural consequence of previously accepted statements.

In a similar regard an expression may thus be any combination of values functions tokens atoms and procedures interpreted according to the particular rules of precedence and of association for a particular expression type which computes and then returns another value. Similarly an expression type describes the rules of precedence and association for a defined context. For each application executing a particular business process filters may restrict the use of certain expression types expressions or functions in order to reduce the quantity of available objects in a given scenario.

As inferred above the input to an function or expression is referred to as the context and the output or return value of an expression is referred to as a result. Both the context and the result may include data elements such as fields structures or tables or a set of data objects such as a scalar value a work area or a vector value where a scalar refers to a variable that holds one value at a time and a vector is a collection of scalars.

In one example instance a function that models a health insurance business rule may include an expression that accepts a table listing multiple patient names as input or that accepts a single element indicative of a single patient name as input. This function may output an elemental data field indicating whether any of the patients named in the table are insured by an entity executing the business rule or may output a table listing dates and descriptions of recent medical treatments. The rule may thus be understood as an expression or hierarchy of expressions assigned to a particular function such as an insurance fraud detection function a credit scoring function or other exemplary function. The specific rule applied to the input context may depend on the type description or structure of the input context.

In another example instance business objects are input into each business process where business objects represent uniquely identifiable business components entities or data described by a structural model an internal process model or service interfaces. Example business object types includes core or hosting business object e.g. a purchase order a customer invoice request or a purchase order replicated business objects e.g. a planning view on a core business object such as a purchase order a business object template e.g. a maximal template of product with all attributes a dependent business object e.g. a reuse part of another business object such as an address a business foundation object e.g. an object located in a foundation layer such as a business partner .

In contrast to a notion object a business object describes an entity type and not necessarily the instance of the entity itself. Similarly a dependent business object is a business object which is used as a reuse part in or by another business object and which represents a concept that cannot stand by itself from a business perspective. Although instances of dependent business objects may occur in the context of a business object dependent objects are equivalent in terms of structure and functionality over a range of embedding objects.

In more detail when the process begins S a rule engine vocabulary or BV including a context description and a result description that respectively define an input to and an output of an external rule engine is automatically generated S . In order to allow the FDT system or a component of the FDT system such as the local rule engine to access the BRMS a function is modeled within the local rule engine to trigger the processing of the rule based logic at the external rule engine through the use of a place holding expression. Thus the function should be modeled or specified with data descriptions that can be understood by the external rule engines so that appropriate data may be transmitted to the external rule engine based on a call to the function.

The local rule engine supports many different data object descriptions. For example Table 1 lists different types of the data element data object that are supported by an exemplary local rule engine and Table 2 lists different types of the structure data object that are supported by an exemplary local rule engine where a structure generally refers to a list of similar type data elements. In addition to data elements and structures the exemplary local rule engine may also support a table data object which like a structure includes a list of similar type data elements but which unlike a structure includes defined headers.

The vocabulary should thus include for each of the expected context and result a description including a data type of the expected context and result. For instance the vocabulary may describe that an expected context or input may be a patient name of type or a patient identification number of type or an expected treatment cost of type . The expected result or output may be similarly described. Since the expected inputs and outputs of the function are known to the FDT system the FDT system may automatically generate its own BV for export to the external rule engine by referencing the expected inputs and outputs of a particular function. Notably since the vocabulary is based on a context provided during the design time phase it is not necessary for the rule engines to derive templates or schemas based on past communication.

The context description may be data type that is native to the external rule engine. For instance the vocabulary may be automatically generated using generic data objects such as a field structure or table data objects. In doing so the vocabulary may be used to specify the basic language constructs that define the universe of discourse between the local and external rule engines. In this regard the vocabulary may be viewed as a published description of the intended format type or structure of the context and the result that are to be communicated between the local rule engine and the external rule engine.

Referring ahead briefly illustrates the relationship between exemplary local rule engine data types. The class the class and the class each inherit characteristics and functions from the abstract class which defines and implements generic methods and attributes. The class inherits characteristics and functions from the class which addresses administrative data and transaction handling. The top level interface centralizes various attributes to one interface for structured access to administrative methods and attributes.

Returning to an expression including a connection to the external rule engine may be modeled specified or otherwise defined S to logically connect the local rule engine to the external engine thereby allowing for the communication of contexts and results data calls. The connection is defined as a placeholder EBRMS expression that allows the local rule engine to be seamlessly integrated with the external rule engine using local rule engine internal rule processing approaches. Since users of the local rule engine are not alerted to the external calls complexity and integration costs are reduced.

The local rule engine may include generic expression subclasses such as the instance constant expression subclass decision table expression subclass a decision tree expression subclass a formula expression subclass and a function call expression subclasses as well as the aforementioned EBRMS expression subclass that allows for communication between the local and external rule engines. The EBRMS expression subclass may include for example an association to an abstract GBRMS CONNECTOR class that encapsulates parameters and function calls that are generally used to communicate with the external rule engine. The EBRMS expression instance is thus chosen created specified or otherwise defined within the expression tree at the local rule engine to connect the local rule engine to the external rule engine once the rule has been defined at the external rule engine see infra S .

Defining the expression may further include querying the rule engine to determine connection parameters and selecting the defined expression from a list of possible expressions based on the determined connection parameters. The EBRMS expression subclass may include and P functions that allow the local rule engine to determine these connection parameters and distinguish between various external rule engine application platform subclasses using reflecting programming. For example using the P function a local rule engine may determine that the external rule engine uses a Java adapter and may specify an EBRMS expression that implements a Java BRMS connector that encapsulates parameters and function calls used to communicate with a Java Adapter of the external rule engine.

The rule engine vocabulary is serialized or packaged in a schema document S which may be an XSD. Included in the schema document are the context and result definitions or descriptions that were automatically generated see supra S so as to be provided to the external rule engine. Since the context or result may be an element structure table or other type of data the schema document identifies which type of data the context or result is expected to be and provides a run time XML element associated with the identified data type.

The schema document expresses a set of rules to which a document must conform in order to be considered valid according to that schema. In this regard other schema document languages or approaches such as RELAX NG or Document Type Definitions DTDs or Schematron may be substituted or used as an adjunct for an XSD. The vocabulary serialized in the schema document allows rules to be defined on the basis of the terms and relations encoded in the vocabulary.

The schema document should also incorporate standard components such as a W3C XML Schema as well as a schema extension component FDT T that extends the standard components to specify a business context name and to define additional data constructs. The schema extension component may be imported via an element as a second namespace by the schema document . As indicated above the schema document is transmitted form the local rule engine to the external rule engine during a design time phase . As described in further detail below see infra S to S the schema document is used as a basis for defining a rule at the external rule engine where the rule is used during a run time phase to process contexts generated by the local rule engine according to the vocabulary and to output results .

Table 3 below illustrates a portion of an example schema document. In Table 3 line numbers have been added for ease of reference.

In the exemplary schema document shown in Table 3 line 01 is an XML declaration that specifies the version of XML being used version 1.0 line 02 opens an element and lines 03 to 05 define target namespaces. Line 07 imports a schema extension component that extends the standard components to specify a business context name and to define additional data constructs. Line 07 includes a data type component that specifies the types of data objects that the local rule engine is capable of communicating. Lines 10 to 15 define a Patient Name context element of type . From this element definition the external rule engine should expect textual context data presumably inputting a name of a patient for further evaluation and processing by the rule.

The schema document is transmitted to the external rule engine S . A rule is defined and tested at the external rule engine based on the context description and the result description included in the received schema document S . When received at the external rule engine the schema document allows a rule to be defined based on the context description and the result description. The schema document thus provides a basis for the definition of rules by the external rule engine.

The BV is derived from the FDT context and is provided in a generic format in the schema document. From the BV which is defined and provisioned during the design phase the rule is defined by the BRMS during the design time phase and deployed for the runtime phase phase. Using the BV the external rule engine uses an import function to link XMA and Java templates by associating XSD entities and attributes or by creating or updating templates corresponding to XSD entities or attributes of such templates that corresponding to XSD attributes and that refer to nested entities where no more than one may occur . Furthermore the external rule engine may create or update templates representing any XSD relationships other than tree structure concepts implemented by such templates and attributes relations between such concepts as exist between the templates and their attributes that correspond to the imported schema documents or verb phrasings for such relations.

Concepts relations and verb phrasings can only be updated not created if an XML template is assigned. Therefore an initial provision of concepts relations and verb phrasings may or may not occur using a default XSD Import wizard.

A context specified according to the context description is transmitted as the input to the external rule engine for evaluation by the rule S . The context may be automatically transmitted or exported to the external rule engine via a remote procedure call if the expression is triggered. The context may be passed to the expression thereby causing the schema document and the context to be transmitted via the connection and the result to be received via the connection.

In the run time phase the context is passed as a data object to the function defined in the local rule engine which in turn applies the context to an expression tree. Using the EBRMS expression type defined within the function the function provides the context or a relevant portion of the context to the external rule engine which processes the context and returns a result. The function at the local rule engine receives and processes the result and outputs data based on the processed result. The context is evaluated using the rule at the external rule engine S .

A rule evaluated result specified according to the result description is received as the output of the external rule engine S . The result is received via the remote procedure call such as a SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVA programming language remote procedure call.

The result is output S thereby ending the process S . The result may be further processed or evaluated locally prior to being output and may be output to a human operator visually or auditorily or may be output to another function or process for further evaluation. The external rule engine may be a business rule engine such as a BRMS the rule engine vocabulary may be a BV and the external rule engine may be a business rule engine. In the above credit scoring example outputting the result may output a credit score to the operator of the local rule engine or to a user or the result may output an indication that the credit score is satisfactory or unsatisfactory relative to the modeled business process.

For each of these application platform subclasses a counterpart such as counterparts to is implemented within the external rule engine to specify the connection protocols and capabilities available to the external rule engines. The local rule engine may thus automatically customize the EXTERNAL BRMS expression for the target application platform using this counterpart information allowing a broad range of application platforms to be used without requiring customization on the by the developer of the external rule engines .

In this regard the local rule engine communicates to with the external rule engines by passing context information to a function which includes an expression . The expression includes an EXTERNAL BRMS expression that includes an association to an abstract GENERIC BRMS CONNECTOR . The GENERIC BRMS CONNECTOR respectively communicates with the C adapter counterpart the Java adapter counterpart and the WS adapter counterpart of the external rule engines to using a C BRMS connector a Java connector and a WS BRMS connector

An example use of the enhanced rule engine is described below with respect to in the context of health insurance fraud detection. In this example the external rule engine evaluates transactional data such as patient or treatment data and outputs an indication of whether a submitted invoice may be fraudulent. The local rule engine may execute on a physician s invoicing billing system and may have access to a database storing the transactional data.

Medical doctors typically list prescribed treatments in order to claim reimbursement payments from the health insurance provider. Since the patients receiving the treatments may not be trained to review health insurance invoices for accuracy unscrupulous medical doctors may bill a health insurance provider for phony treatments by listing more treatments on an invoice than were actually applied.

Health insurance providers receive vast quantities of invoices for payment processing each day making manual checking of invoices economically unfeasible. Thus health insurance providers use automated mechanisms to check incoming invoices for inconsistencies that allude to this type of potential fraud using logical if . . . then . . . tests.

For each invoice presented to the health insurance provider a rule engine checks each invoice line item with respect to the described treatment personal data of the patient or regarding a given timeframe or on a single invoice. For instance a rule may indicate that if a patient receives a first treatment then the patient is not supposed to get a second treatment on the same invoice. Another rule may dictate that if a patient receives a first treatment then the patient is not supposed to receive second and or third treatments during the next quarter. Further rules may dictate that if a patient receives rehabilitation treatment then the rehabilitation treatment must start at most fourteen days after the surgery or that if a patient receives a free preventive medical checkup then he must be male and at least thirty year old.

It is also beneficial to be able to create arbitrary compositions of treatments for consistency checks which is covered by chaining functionality provided by business rule engines. An external rule engine should be provided with access to the entire treatment history over a relevant time frame i.e. the period on which consistency checks are necessary of a patient otherwise it may not be possible to accurately perform a consistency check. As such the local rule engine may transfer the entire treatment history of the patient in a loosely coupled integration scenario or may merely provide a lookup functionality to the external rule engine in a tighter integration scenario .

Before a local rule engine may provide the patient information the disease history information the treatment information or the invoice information to an external insurance fraud detection rule engine a vocabulary is generated based on the description of data that may be communicated. Tables 4 to 7 respectively list the data descriptions including a data attribute and an associated data type for each exemplary context associated with the patient information the disease history information the treatment information and the invoice information thereby defining and describing the universe of discourse between the local rule engine and the external rule engine.

Within the local rule engine three data object types are possible data elements structures and tables. A data element data object types may include a Boolean type a text type a number type an amount type a quantity type and a timepoint type. A structure data object includes a set of data elements and a table includes a structure with a header definition.

The context is transmitted to the external rule engine as an XSD. Each XSD element is annotated with an appinfo element specifying the concept name of the element. This concept name can be used for the rule definition. Table 12 lists the resulting XSD Document and Tables 8 to 11 respectively list the invoice head invoice item list treatment history and disease history that is passed to the external rule engine during runtime.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display monitor for displaying text and images to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a mouse for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display monitor a fixed disk drive a removable disk drive a tape drive a hardcopy output device and a computer network connection .

The display monitor displays graphics images and text that comprise the display for the software applications used by the device as well as the operating system programs necessary to operate the device . A user uses the keyboard to enter commands and data to operate and control the computer operating system programs the web browser and or the rule engine. The user uses the mouse to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display monitor as part of the interaction with and control of the device and applications running on the device . The mouse is any type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad or other pointing device.

In a further implementation the fixed disk drive itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID or may be a disk drive farm or a disk array that is physically located in a separate computing unit. Such computer readable memory media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media.

The wireless or wireline computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network may be one or more of a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet or other network.

The computer network connection uses a wireline or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wireline connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wireline connector.

The removable disk drive is a removable storage device that is used to off load data from the device or upload data onto the device . The removable disk drive may be a floppy disk drive an IOMEGA ZIP drive a compact disk read only memory CD ROM drive a CD Recordable drive CD R a CD Rewritable drive CD RW flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive or any one of the various recordable or rewritable digital versatile disc DVD drives such as the DVD Recordable DVD R or DVD R DVD Rewritable DVD RW or DVD RW or DVD RAM. Operating system programs applications and various data files are stored on disks which are stored on the fixed disk drive or on removable media for the removable disk drive .

The tape drive is a tape storage device that is used to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device . The tape drive may be a quarter inch cartridge QIC 4 mm digital audio tape DAT 8 mm digital linear tape DLT drive or other type of tape.

The hardcopy output device provides an output function for the operating system programs and applications. The hardcopy output device may be a printer or any output device that produces tangible output objects including textual or image data or graphical representations of textual or image data. While the hardcopy output device is depicted as being directly connected to the device it need not be. For instance the hardcopy output device may be connected to device via a network interface such as a wireline or wireless network.

Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a desktop PC in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone a handheld or tablet computer a PDA or other type of device that includes a data processing apparatus.

The rule engine application may be an SAP rule engine a Workflow Magic rule engine an OpenLexicon rule engine an OpenRules rule engine a NxBRE rule engine a Rools rule engine a JBoss Rules rule engine or any other software system that helps manage and automate business rules.

Briefly a computer program product is tangibly embodied in the machine readable storage medium . The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus such as the CPU to automatically generate a rule engine vocabulary including a context description and a result description that respectively define an input to and an output of an external rule engine to serialize the rule engine vocabulary in a schema document that when received at the external rule engine allows a rule to be defined based on the context description and the result description and to transmit the schema document to the external rule engine. The computer program product also includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to transmit a context specified according to the context description as the input to the external rule engine for evaluation by the rule to receive a rule evaluated result specified according to the result description as the output of the external rule engine and to output the result.

The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the computer CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the computer CPU loads computer executable process steps from the fixed disk drive or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution.

Also shown in the device stores computer executable code for a operating system and application programs such as word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming web browsing JavaScript engine or other applications. Although it is possible to provide for the enhanced rule engine using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The computer CPU is one of a number of high performance computer processors including an INTEL or AMD processor a POWERPC processor a MIPS reduced instruction set computer RISC processor a SPARC processor an ACORN RISC Machine ARM architecture processor a HP ALPHASERVER processor or a proprietary computer processor for a mainframe. In an additional arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit including a multiple CPU configuration found in high performance workstations and servers or a multiple scalable processing unit found in mainframes.

The operating system may be APPLE MAC OS X for INTEL and POWERPC based workstations and servers MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP Workstation MICROSOFT WINDOWS VISTA WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP Server a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems including AIX for IBM workstations and servers SUNOS for SUN workstations and servers LINUX for INTEL CPU based workstations and servers HP UX WORKLOAD MANAGER for HP workstations and servers IRIX for SGI workstations and servers VAX VMS for Digital Equipment Corporation computers OPENVMS for HP ALPHASERVER based computers SYMBIAN OS NEWTON IPOD WINDOWS MOBILE or WINDOWS CE PALM NOKIA OS NOS OSE or EPOC for mobile devices or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW Java Platform Micro Edition Java ME or Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact.

While illustrate one possible implementation of a computing system that executes program code or program or process steps configured to effectuate an enhanced rule engine other types of computers may also be used as well.

As to formal matters while the term user has been consistently used to describe an entity that interacts with these processes such a generalization is also intended to describe multiple related or unrelated living or automated entities or beings that interact with these processes at various different overlapping or non overlapping states.

In a similar vein the term selection is intended to denote throughout a manual selection by a human an automatic selection by a non human or some combination thereof. Finally it is noted that for the sake of brevity the terms Java and JavaScript are intended to reference the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language and the term XML is intended to reference eXtensible Markup Language throughout.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

