---

title: Option management in a software-defined radio
abstract: The option management approach for SDRs includes control of installation and/or access to waveform features and/or platform features. A software-defined radio may include an antenna, a radio transceiver coupled to the antenna, and at least one memory storing a master feature database including a plurality of selectable waveform features and a plurality of selectable platform features, and a selected options database including selected waveform features and selected platform features from the master feature database. A controller cooperates with the at least one memory to configure the selected options database based upon an input options file and to permit reconfiguration of the selected options database based upon a subsequent input options file. The controller also cooperates with the radio transceiver and the selected options database to operate the SDR based upon the selected waveform features and the selected platform features.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08050708&OS=08050708&RS=08050708
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 08050708
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070412
---
The present invention relates to the field of communications and more particularly to wireless communications and related methods.

Software Defined Radio SDR works much like desktop computing where a single hardware platform can carry out many functions based on the software applications loaded. SDR uses software to perform radio signal processing functions instead of using resistors capacitors feedback loops or application specific integrated circuits. Frequency tuning filtering synchronization encoding and modulation are performed in software on high speed reprogrammable devices such as digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA or general purpose processors GPP . RE components may still be needed for generation of high frequencies or for signal amplifications and radiation.

At the center of SDR technology is the software architecture on which the radios must be built and communication protocols implemented. Many proprietary architectures exist but to ensure portability and interoperability of the protocols on the different radios an open architecture was developed. The Software Communications Architecture SCA is a set of specifications describing the interaction between the different software and hardware components of a radio and providing software commands for their control. The SCA has been developed by the U.S. Department of Defense Joint Tactical Radio System JTRS project. The SCA is an open architecture framework that specifies how hardware and software components are to interoperate so that different manufacturers and developers can readily integrate the respective components into a single device.

So SDRs can be typically implemented with relatively standard processor and hardware components. One particular class of software radio is the Joint Tactical Radio JTR which includes relatively standard radio and processing hardware along with any appropriate waveform software modules to implement the communication waveforms a radio will use. JTR radios also use operating system software that conforms with the SCA specification see www.jtrs.saalt.mil which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The JTRS SCA defines a set of interfaces and protocols often based on the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA for implementing an SDR. In part JTRS and its SCA are used with a family of software re programmable radios. As such the SCA is a specific set of rules methods and design criteria for implementing software re programmable digital radios.

The JTRS SCA specification is published by the JTRS Joint Program Office JPO . The JTRS SCA has been structured to provide for portability of applications software between different JTRS SCA implementations leverage commercial standards to reduce development cost reduce development time of new waveforms through the ability to reuse design modules and build on evolving commercial frameworks and architectures.

The JTRS SCA is not a system specification as it is intended to be implementation independent but a set of rules that constrain the design of systems to achieve desired JTRS objectives. The software framework of the JTRS SCA defines the Operating Environment OE and specifies the services and interfaces that applications use from that environment. The SCA OE comprises a Core Framework CF a CORBA middleware and an Operating System OS based on the Portable Operating System Interface POSIX with associated board support packages. The JTRS SCA also provides a building block structure defined in the API Supplement for defining application programming interfaces APIs between application software components.

The JTRS SCA Core Framework CF is an architectural concept defining the essential core set of open software Interfaces and Profiles that provide for the deployment management interconnection and intercommunication of software application components in embedded distributed computing communication systems. Interfaces may be defined in the JTRS SCA Specification. However developers may implement some of them some may be implemented by non core applications i.e. waveforms etc. and some may be implemented by hardware device providers.

The JTRS approach includes provisions to install uninstall a waveform application to add or alter a feature set. However the JTRS radio architecture has no provisions to control installation or access to features and or waveforms. The current approach does not address modifications of a feature set within a waveform control of waveform or features to specific customers or specific orders and or control of features requiring royalties.

In view of the foregoing background it is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an option management approach for SDRs including control of installation and or access to waveform features and or platform features.

This and other objects features and advantages in accordance with the present invention are provided by a software defined radio SDR including an antenna a radio transceiver coupled to the antenna and at least one memory storing a master feature database including a plurality of selectable waveform features and a plurality of selectable platform features and a selected options database including selected waveform features and selected platform features from the master feature database. A controller cooperates with the memory to configure the selected options database based upon an input options file and to permit reconfiguration of the selected options database based upon a subsequent input options file. The controller also cooperates with the radio transceiver and the selected options database to operate the SDR based upon the selected waveform features and the selected platform features.

The memory may further store operating environment software and wherein the controller may further cooperate with the memory to configure or reconfigure the selected options database without modification to the operating environment software. Also the input options file may be an input options text file identifying each selectable waveform feature and each selectable platform feature with a value associated therewith. The respective value associated with each selectable waveform feature and each selectable platform feature may include a selected deselected value and or a numerical range value.

The controller may further implement an authorized sender authentication an authorized recipient validation and or a functional validation before permitting configuration or reconfiguration of the selected options database. The memory may also store at least one application program and the controller may permit read only access to the selected options database by the application program. The selectable platform features may comprise non waveform related features and or multi waveform generic features.

A method aspect is directed to operating a software defined radio SDR including a radio transceiver at least one memory and a controller cooperating therewith. The method includes storing a master feature database including a plurality of selectable waveform features and a plurality of selectable platform features and a selected options database including selected waveform features and selected platform features from the master feature database. The method also includes controlling the memory to configure the selected options database based upon an input options file and to permit reconfiguration of the selected options database based upon a subsequent input options file. The SDR is operated based upon the selected waveform features and the selected platform features by controlling the radio transceiver and the selected options database.

Operating environment software may be stored in the memory and controlling the memory may include configuring or reconfiguring the selected options database without modification to the operating environment software. The input options file may comprise an input options text file and the method may further include identifying each selectable waveform feature and each selectable platform feature with an associated value of the input options text file. The respective value associated with each selectable waveform feature and each selectable platform feature may include a selected deselected value and or a numerical range value.

Furthermore controlling the memory may further include implementing an authorized sender authentication an authorized recipient validation and or a functional validation before permitting configuration or reconfiguration of the selected options database. The method may include storing an application program in the memory and controlling the memory may include permitting read only access to the selected options database by the at least one application program.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art portions of the present invention may be embodied as a method data processing system or computer program product. Accordingly these portions of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore portions of the present invention may be a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implement the functions specified in the block or blocks 

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Referring initially to a software defined radio SDR in accordance with the present invention will now be described. An SDR may be thought of as a radio in which channel modulation waveforms are defined in software. That is waveforms are generated as sampled digital signals converted from digital to analog via a wideband Digital to Analog Converter DAC and then possibly upconverted from IF to RF. The receiver similarly employs a wideband Analog to Digital Converter ADC that captures all of the channels of the software radio. The receiver then extracts downconverts and demodulates the channel waveform using software on a processor such as a digital signal processor DSP general purpose processor GPP or field programmable gate array FPGA for example.

As is appreciated by those skilled in the art the Software Communications Architecture SCA is a set of specifications describing the interaction between the different software and hardware components of a radio and providing software commands for their control. The software framework of the SCA defines the Operating Environment OE and specifies the services and interfaces that applications use from that environment. The SCA OE may include a Core Framework CF a CORBA middleware and an Operating System OS based on the Portable Operating System Interface POSIX with associated board support packages. The SCA also provides a building block structure for defining application programming interfaces APIs between application software components.

The SDR includes an antenna a radio transceiver coupled to the antenna and at least one memory . The memory may be implemented by any suitable processor accessible memory capable of performing in accordance with the features of the present invention. As illustrated the memory stores a master feature database including a plurality of selectable waveform features and a plurality of selectable platform features. A selected options database includes selected waveform features and selected platform features from the master feature database. A controller cooperates with the memory to configure the selected options database based upon an input options file and to permit reconfiguration of the selected options database based upon a subsequent input options file. The controller also cooperates with the radio transceiver and the selected options database to operate the SDR based upon the selected waveform features and the selected platform features.

The options file may be input to the SDR wirelessly via antenna or downloaded to the controller e.g. to an input interface via a portable software storage product such as a computer disc or flash memory for example. Also the input options file may be an input options text file as illustrated in for example. The options text file may include a feature identification and or an SDR identification and may identify each selectable waveform feature and each selectable platform feature with a value associated therewith. The respective value associated with each selectable waveform feature and each selectable platform feature may include a selected deselected value e.g. enable or disable and or a numerical range value.

The memory may further store operating environment software and the controller preferably cooperates with the memory to configure or reconfigure the selected options database without modification to the operating environment software . The memory may also store at least one application program and the controller may permit read only access to the selected options database by the application program .

The controller may further implement an authorized sender authentication of the options file to verify that the options are being authorized by a valid sender before permitting configuration or reconfiguration of the selected options database . When an options file is input to the SDR the platform applications may validate the options file signature e.g. digital signature standard DSS before installing.

The controller may implement an authorized recipient validation of the options file to verify that the options are valid and intended for the respective SDR before permitting configuration or reconfiguration of the selected options database . The controller may implement a functional validation of the options file to determine possible inconsistencies between optional features and installed features before permitting configuration or reconfiguration of the selected options database . The selectable platform features may comprise non waveform related features and or multi waveform generic features such as for example SDR positioning features or an audio codec.

A method aspect will be described with reference to the flowchart of . The method is directed to operating a software defined radio SDR including a radio transceiver at least one memory and a controller cooperating therewith. The method begins at block and includes storing a master feature database including a plurality of selectable waveform features and a plurality of selectable platform features block . A selected options database including selected waveform features and selected platform features from the master feature database is stored at block . The method also includes controlling the at least one memory to configure the selected options database block based upon an input options file processed at block and to permit reconfiguration of the selected options database based upon a subsequent input options file. At block the SDR is operated based upon the selected waveform features and the selected platform features by controlling the radio transceiver and the selected options database before ending at block .

Operating environment software may be stored in the memory at block and controlling the memory preferably includes configuring or reconfiguring the selected options database without modification to the operating environment software . The method may include storing an application program in the memory block and controlling the memory may include permitting read only access to the selected options database by the at least one application program . Furthermore controlling the memory may further include implementing an authorized sender authentication an authorized recipient validation and or a functional validation before permitting configuration or reconfiguration of the selected options database as discussed above.

The approach of the present invention provides option enabling for both waveforms and or platform features. The approach is a scalable generic format that allows future information to be added displayed without the need to modify the operating environment code upon option addition modification. The approach includes the ability to target a customer radio pool via an identifier such as the radio serial number. This would be done by providing a radio serial number effectivity. For example an option file could be applicable to a range of serial numbers all serial numbers or a series of serial numbers.

As discussed the approach provides authentication of the options file . For example the options file would have the same level of security as the OE or waveform code. This may be done by DSS signing the options file and installing it. Waveform defined options allows waveform unique option data structures without the need to modify operating environment code.

For example a PC application may create an option file which is signed by the manufacturer in the same manner as the radio software is signed. The option file contains option name and a value enabled disabled . Option file may also contain additional items such as serial number set applicable sales order number s waveform specific configuration data such as frequency range hopset width special customer configuration etc.

The installed options may be stored in a persistent SQL database that is unaffected by zeroization or software install. Platform software and installed applications access the options database via a generic API layer. A unique option ID may be used as a database key to form a SQL query and return information about the requested option. Integrity of the database is ensured by the platform software and this may include managing additions and removals to from the database To prevent installed applications from corrupting the options database their access is preferably read only. A DSS signed file with a key controlled by the manufacturer installs like any other software package and the option file may be targeted towards a specific radio serial number or sales order.

The approach includes the ability to add options without prior knowledge of the target radio configuration. The waveform installation package can indicate the option is required to authorize proper installation and waveform options may be installed and accessed in a generic way. Importantly the operating environment does not require software modifications to add new options in accordance with the approach of the present invention.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

