---

title: System and method for model element identification
abstract: A problem analysis system and method, given at least one entity represented in an entity-relation-entity relationship, automatically formulates a query that is automatically submitted via a knowledge search tool to a database of mereological and functional relationships, and responses to this query from the database are automatically provided. The query can be formatted as a natural language query, a Boolean query, a key word query, or a query according to the query syntax of a database management system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031947&OS=09031947&RS=09031947
owner: Invention Machine Corporation
number: 09031947
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070327
---
The present application while not claiming priority to may be related to the following United States patent applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 686 660 filed Mar. 15 2007 titled Semantic Processor For Recognition Of Whole Part Relations In Natural Language Documents which is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 208 941 filed Jul. 31 2002 titled Computer Based Summarization of Natural Language Documents published as U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. 20030130837 on Jul. 10 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 308 886 titled Computer Based Summarization of Natural Language Documents filed Jul. 31 2001.

The present application while not claiming priority to may be related to the following United States patent applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 737 147 filed Dec. 15 2003 U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. 20050131874 published Jun. 16 2005 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 723 633 filed Nov. 26 2003 U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. 20050114282 published May 26 2005 . These applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates to systems and methods of automatic knowledge search for access to information stored in computer based database systems. More specifically the present application relates to knowledge searches based on accessing information contained in databases of whole part i.e. mereological relationships and related functional relationships.

The process of innovation within organizations remains largely untouched by the general trend toward improved efficiency through automation. The traditional model of stimulating innovative thought is through the application of psychological techniques such as brainstorming. These techniques bring limited improvement to the process.

More recently there have emerged a number of computer based technologies that can be applied by a researcher or designer that is considering the creation or improvement of a device process or other system. These technologies can be referred to as problem analysis tools. 

Problem analysis tools assist the user by enabling the user to consider a complex system and identify discrete problems which should be addressed. These tools accomplish this by providing computer based interfaces which assist in the application of well understood methods of problem analysis including but are not limited to root cause analysis TRIZ a Russian acronym for Teoriya Resheniya Izobretatelskikh Zadatch value engineering system functional analysis and system benchmarking. TRIZ is a methodology tool set knowledge base and model based technology for generating innovative ideas and solutions for problem solving. An example of such a tool called TechOptimizer is a computer system marketed by Invention Machine Corporation of Boston Mass. The technology used in TechOptimizer to assist in problem analysis is partially described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 056 428 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 202 043. The system disclosed in these two patents is fully described in TechOptimizer user guide version 4.0 Invention Machine Corporation Boston Mass.

The TechOptimizer software suite includes a module which allows a user to build a system functional model of a design and or technological process to perform value diagnostics of the design and or technological process identify a better for example higher value configuration of the design and or technological process and identify what problem has to be solved in order to implement this new configuration.

A key deficiency with problem analysis tools is that while they greatly aid in the identification of specific issues to be addressed the user of such tools is required to possess the knowledge about the problem being considered to adequately describe the problem or system in which the problem exists. In U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 273 137 System and Method for Problem Analysis filed Nov. 14 2005 there is disclosed a method for providing user specific relevant information to assist in the modeling of problems wherein the principle aspect of analysis is cause effect relationships and wherein a cause or effect statement is automatically reformulated as a natural language query. The query is submitted to a database and the results of the query are returned thereby greatly facilitating the process of identifying related cause effect data.

However there exists a class of situations in the use of problem analysis tools which make the use of these tools difficult and do not yield to the technique above. In these situations a researcher or designer must consider the nature of the system being examined. Whether the system being examined comprises a device a process an organization or any other type of natural or artificial system the researcher or designer must understand the make up of the system its constituent components and the interactions among those components. This understanding helps lead the researcher to a deeper understanding of the problem and subsequently to solution concepts.

This can be easily understood by considering the process of the method of system analysis commonly referred to as system functional modeling. In this analytical process the researcher can begin with a statement of a system under investigation for example milking stool. The researcher will then consider what the components of the milking stool system are stool legs seat handle farmer cow floor milk pail. The researcher will then consider for each pair of components of the system what the functional interactions between the components are. For example it may be identified that an interaction between the seat and the farmer is that the seat supports the farmer. The researcher will continue with iterative analysis until all known interactions have been identified and classified. Well understood principles of value engineering analysis may then be used to gain insights into the relative value contribution of each component to the overall system. This type of analysis is very effective and in wide use. However it is also difficult because the researcher has no well defined methods for identifying the components of the system and their functional interactions. As a result the method is largely dependant on personal domain knowledge.

A similar problem can be seen in the analytic method commonly referred to as systems thinking. In this method practitioners identify parts of process system and explore the dynamic nature of the system identifying interactions between elements and looking for causal cycles. Just as with the case of the researcher performing a system functional modeling analysis the systems thinking researcher is left to rely on personal domain knowledge to identify the components and interactions of any particular system.

In both of these situations the user must construct a system model and use his or her domain knowledge to identify components of the system and the interactions between those components. If the user does not have adequate domain knowledge the user must conduct independent research using whatever means are available to find useful information. These means could include using books public Internet search engines private data subscription services internal enterprise portals or other sources of relevant technical information.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention provided is a problem analysis method for identifying elements of a system. The method comprises providing a system element store comprising machine readable representations of system models comprising system elements extracting system elements from at least one system model and automatically formulating a query from the system elements using the query searching one or more knowledge bases for component elements useful to form the system elements and at least one of storing and displaying the component elements in association with the system elements used to form the query.

The method can further comprise prior to formulating the query classifying the system elements as a whole element of a whole part relationship an entity element of an entity relation entity relationship a pair of entity elements of an entity relation entity relationship or a relation element of an entity relation entity relationship.

Searching the one or more knowledge bases can comprise submitting the query to a knowledge search engine and formatting the query to be compatible with the knowledge search engine.

Formatting the query can include formatting the query as either a natural language query a Boolean query a key word query or a query according to the query syntax of a database management system.

The knowledge search engine can comprise a semantic indexing and search tool and the one or more knowledge bases comprising a semantic analysis knowledge base.

The system models can include device functional models and the component elements can include one or more device component elements.

The system models can include process functional models and the component elements can include one or more process component elements.

The one or more knowledge bases can comprise one or more knowledge bases selected from a group consisting of one or more locally accessible knowledge bases one or more knowledge bases containing corporate knowledge and one or more publicly accessible knowledge bases.

The method can further comprise representing a system element graphically linked to one or more other system elements.

The method according to claim wherein the one or more knowledge bases comprise one or more mereology and functional relationship databases.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a computer program product that comprises computer executable instructions stored in at least one storage device and executable by at least one processor to perform a problem analysis method for identifying elements of a system. The method comprises providing a system element store comprising machine readable representations of system models comprising system elements extracting system elements from at least one system model and automatically formulating a query by transforming the system elements using the query searching one or more knowledge bases for component elements useful to form the system elements and at least one of storing and displaying the component elements in association with the system elements used to form the query.

The method can further comprise prior to formulating the query classifying the system elements as a whole element of a whole part relationship an entity element of an entity relation entity relationship a pair of entity elements of an entity relation entity relationship or a relation element of an entity relation entity relationship.

The one or more knowledge bases can comprise one or more mereology and functional relationship databases.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a problem analysis system for system modeling. The system comprises an element store comprising machine readable representations of system models comprising system elements a query formulator configured to extract system elements from at least one system model and to automatically formulate a query from the system elements a knowledge search engine configured to receive the query and search one or more knowledge bases for component elements useful to form the system elements.

The query formulator can be further configured prior to formulating the query to classify the system elements as a whole element of a whole part relationship an entity element of an entity relation entity relationship a pair of entity elements of an entity relation entity relationship or a relation element of an entity relation entity relationship.

The query formulator can be configured to format the query to be compatible with the knowledge search engine.

The query formulator can be configured to format the query as either a natural language query a Boolean query a key word query or a query according to the query syntax of a database management system.

The knowledge search engine can comprise a semantic indexing and search tool and the one or more knowledge bases can comprise one or more semantic analysis knowledge base.

The one or more functional modeling tools can include a device functional modeling tool and the component elements can include at least one device component element.

The one or more functional modeling tools can include a process functional modeling tool and the component elements can include at least one process component element.

The one or more knowledge bases can comprise one or more databases selected from a group consisting of one or more locally accessible databases one or more knowledge bases containing corporate knowledge and one or more publicly accessible databases.

The system can further comprise a computer program stored in a computer readable storage medium for execution by a computer system. The computer system can comprise one or more computer processing elements one or more display devices one or more user input devices and communication elements for communicating with the one or more knowledge bases.

The system can be configured to generate user interactive screens on the one or more display devices configured to represent a system element graphically linked to one or more other system elements.

The one or more knowledge bases can comprise one or more mereology and functional relationship databases.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The System Modeling Tools provide functionality for modeling specific systems resulting in machine readable representations of one or more system models corresponding to the system or systems being modeled each system model comprising system elements. The System Element Store contains the machine readable system model representations that can be further processed in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The Query Formulator extracts specific system elements from the models in the System Element Store and transforms the system elements into queries for use by the Knowledge Search Engine in extracting information from the Mereological and Functional Relationship Databases . These queries search for component elements in Mereological and Functional Relationship Databases useful to form the system elements e.g. component elements that can satisfy the requirements of the system elements.

Query Formulator can include an Element Extractor configured to identify specific system elements from the System Element Store required to accomplish a set of system objectives. The Element Extractor processes the system elements to extract key component elements. Element Extractor can extract a name of a component element or the name of a function performed by a component element associated with at least one system element. The component elements can form a part of an entity relation entity relationship represented in the system model. An example of an entity relation entity relationship would be inner race support shaft as shown in . While the disclosures of and were not previously known shows an embodiment of a user interface for analyzing engineering systems using device functional modeling in accordance with the prior art.

The Query Formulator can also include a Query Assembler configured to assemble the key system elements to generate a query . Generating the query can include formatting the query as either a natural language query a Boolean query a key word query or a query according to the query syntax of a database management system in this embodiment. The query is then submitted to the Knowledge Search Engine as shown in which implements searching of a database such as a semantically indexed database for information relevant to the query. Responses to the query may be automatically provided to a user in a graphical or text format.

Embodiments of the present invention enhance the use of various problem system modeling tools by providing the ability to analyze and process system elements related to systems to be analyzed as an improvement above and beyond prior problem analysis tools or systems. This improvement in problem analysis is provided for example by the ability to access knowledge bases outside of a user s local knowledge domain. Such embodiments can include one or more of Device Functional Modeling tools and Process Functional Modeling tools configured to generating system models.

As indicated above with respect to a Knowledge Search Engine is used to extract information from databases . The Knowledge Search Engine comprises one or more knowledge search tools also commonly referred to as database query tools that facilitate the efficient access to information stored in computer based database systems such as those represented by databases . When applicable a knowledge search tool and a database to be searched by it are collectively referred to herein as a knowledge base. A user is able to locate relevant information by presenting a properly constructed query in an appropriate form e.g. natural language or Boolean expression to the knowledge search tool which searches the database and obtains results. The knowledge search tool responds to the entered query by constructing a result set comprising a list of information that meets the relevancy criteria imposed by the knowledge search tool.

An example of such a knowledge search tool is a computer based system called Goldfire Intelligence marketed by Invention Machine Corporation Boston Mass. The technology used in this tool is partially described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 167 370 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference. An embodiment of the present invention uses the semantic indexing and search technology described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 167 370 for the purpose of performing knowledge searches. It will be apparent to the skilled practitioner that any other knowledge search tool could be used in an alternative embodiment.

As indicated above the Query Formulator provides queries to the Knowledge Search Engine for the extraction of information from databases . In one embodiment the machine representation of a system element is used as the source of key elements used to build a query. The type of actions taken by the Query Formulator can be shown by example with reference to the problem analysis tools depicted in .

Various types of knowledge bases may be accessed in response to a query and these knowledge bases may be resident in various places. For example these knowledge bases cab be resident in one or more of three possible places. One set of knowledge bases can be contained in the user s own computer memory or portable memory devices such as CDs that can accessed at the user s location. Another set of knowledge bases can be can be Corporate Knowledge which is typically on one or more servers resident or privately accessible to user s within the organization such as a corporation. Another set of knowledge bases can be publicly accessible search engines and databases such as for example Google a search engine the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent collection a searchable database .

Also as is shown in the user can select which of the suggested component elements to include in the system model by activating selection indicators . The selection results in the selected component elements being placed on the system model canvass as shown in . For example the component elements inner race and outer race are selected in the Components found in knowledge bases pane and appear in the system model canvas of .

In the Function Search window provides proposed relationship elements representing possible functional interaction between system component elements. In a sub panel provides proposed component elements which represent elements of the system that the component being examined in this case grease is known to act upon. Based on the interpretation of the selected component grease the system constructs the query grease as a query to be submitted to a knowledge search tool by automatic reformulation by translating the system element into a natural language query. The query is shown in the Component text box portion of the Function Search window . The sub panels provide the list of known interactions and the effects of those interactions for a given pair of component elements grease and roller . Based on the interpretation of the selected components grease and roller the system constructs the query grease and roller as a query to be submitted to a knowledge search tool by automatic reformulation by translating the system element into a natural language query.

It will be apparent to the skilled practitioner that in alternative embodiments the specific mechanism for extraction of key query elements from a given system modeling tool s machine representation will vary with the tool as will the mechanism for construction of the automatically formed query. For example depicts a graphical representation corresponding to the results of using a system modeling tool that automates the process of device functional modeling. In this situation the result of the device functional modeling has a machine representation which is a directed graph wherein each node of the graph represents a component element and each edge shown as arrows connecting the nodes of the graph represents a functional interaction between the nodes i.e. component elements connected by the edge. The combination of two nodes and a connecting edge is also referred to as an entity function entity relationship. 

In this case the machine representation of each system element includes a well formed natural language fragment. Thus if the user wishes to understand possible functional relationships of the components grease and roller since the user has the presumed goal of identifying functional elements of the system by selecting the nodes grease and roller the user tasks the program to create the formulation of the query in which the nodes are translated into the query statement. The system does this by extracting the key component data and generating a query of the form grease and roller where grease is a component element of the system acting upon the component element roller .

Embodiments of the present invention can be applied in the context of Device Functional Modeling such as that illustrated in . As briefly discussed above Device Functional Modeling can be used when a user is presented with a system for which related system elements are to be identified. It will be apparent to the skilled practitioner that the methods illustrated for Device Functional Modeling are equally applicable to an embodiment of the present invention in the context of Process Functional Modeling. In the Process Functional Modeling context system modeling comprises determining potential operations as component elements which comprise a process and the interactions i.e. relationship elements between those operations. Hence in both the contexts of Device Functional Modeling and Process Function Modeling being instances of different approaches to system modeling embodiments of the present invention support analysis for determination of system elements comprising component elements and relationship elements. Those skilled in the art will understand that embodiments of the present invention may also be applied to other modeling techniques and is not limited to Device Functional Modeling and Process Functional Modeling.

Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in typical computer systems such as the system shown in . Computer system comprises at least one processing element a display an input device and a link to databases that provide the necessary information to provide responses to queries. Databases may be accessible via a remote network e.g. a wide area network or the Internet a local network e.g. an enterprise or local area network or a combination thereof.

The functionality of the computer system can take the form of computer instructions or program code executable by one or more computers microprocessors microcontrollers or other processing devices such as processing element . The computer executable instructions for implementing the system functionality can be resident in memory on the processing device or may be provided to the processing devices by floppy disks hard disks compact disk CDs digital versatile disks DVDs read only memory ROM server or any other storage medium.

Since it is the case that relevant knowledge needed to model the systems identified through the use of a system modeling tool often exist in the body of knowledge accessible via a knowledge search tool this addition of these two new elements to the system modeling tools present immediate and compelling benefits to the user. A new model of use is enabled wherein the operations of system modeling and applied research are no longer disjoint activities. Now a single operation is made available which allows users to dynamically find potentially relevant information outside the domain of knowledge of the user and required for a thorough analysis of modeled systems as they are identified. This results in greater productivity and accuracy of modeling as the tradition latency between system element identification and related mereological or functional relationship generation is eliminated as is the dependency on the scope of the user domain knowledge.

The foregoing detailed description of exemplary and preferred embodiments is presented for purposes of illustration and disclosure in accordance with the requirements of the law. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form s described but only to enable others skilled in the art to understand how the invention may be suited for a particular use or implementation. The possibility of modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. No limitation is intended by the description of exemplary embodiments which may have included tolerances feature dimensions specific operating conditions engineering specifications or the like and which may vary between implementations or with changes to the state of the art and no limitation should be implied therefrom.

This disclosure has been made with respect to the current state of the art but also contemplates advancements and that adaptations in the future may take into consideration of those advancements namely in accordance with the then current state of the art. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the Claims as written and equivalents as applicable. Reference to a claim element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated. Moreover no element component nor method or process step in this disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or step is explicitly recited in the Claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. Sec. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for . . . and no method or process step herein is to be construed under those provisions unless the step or steps are expressly recited using the phrase step s for . . . . 

It is therefore understood that various modifications may be made and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

