---

title: Acceleration strain transducer
abstract: An accelerometer is provided including a strain sensor with a substantially linear configuration. The strain sensor is mounted on a transducer such that the strain sensor extends laterally across the transducer. The transducer has a base and a plurality of flaps joined at a first end to the base and supporting the strain sensor at a second end. The flaps translate acceleration in a predefined direction to strain in the strain sensor. Further embodiments have flaps defining an interrupted surface with greater height at the center and flaps that have features for enhancing the strain caused by acceleration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07661313&OS=07661313&RS=07661313
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07661313
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071105
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to instruments and more particularly to a transducer that can be used with a strain sensor to make an accelerometer.

Traditional electrical accelerometers use a magnetic mass supported by a spring in a housing. An induction coil is wound around the interior of the housing. Acceleration is sensed by measuring the electromotive force induced in the induction coil by movement of the magnetic mass. Piezoceramic transducers use a piezoelectric effect to produce a low voltage output in response to force. These sensors usually require a preamplifier to be placed in close proximity. In remote applications especially those involving arrays of accelerometers the preamplifiers and telemetry combining signals for transmission to the receive site can be large and a major factor in the system expense.

Fiber optic sensor systems remove the requirement for preamplification and electronic telemetry. Very low sensitivity accelerometers are based on the acceleration causing two optical waveguides to be misaligned thus varying the intensity of the light signal. Other accelerometers use large coils of tens of meters of optical fiber. The large amount of fiber and the limited bend diameter of the fiber limit these to fairly large sizes.

Another type of optical accelerometer uses a fiber optic segment positioned between a base and a ridged reaction mass. Acceleration causes the reaction mass to pinch the fiber optic segment against the base. Acceleration can be measured by measuring the modulation of the light passing through the fiber optic segment.

Sometimes it is more convenient to measure strain and a conventional technique is the use of a force transducer to translate acceleration into strain. Strain sensors include a foil strain gauge having a plurality of foil traces on a backing material. This gauge is mounted on an object to measure elongation of the object. Strain is measured by measuring the increased resistance in the strain gauge. Another linear electrical strain sensor can be constructed by providing mercury or some other conductive material in an elastomeric tube. The elastomeric tube is mounted to the object. Stretching of the tube results in a narrowing of the cross sectional area which increases electrical resistance in the conductive material. This resistance can be measured giving an indication of strain.

A fiber optic sensor can also be used to measure strain. A piece of fiber optic is provided that has a Bragg grating written in the fiber optic at either end of a sensing region. The sensing region is mounted to an object being measured and elongation of the sensor can be measured by providing light pulses at a known interval in the fiber optic and collecting the reflected pulses. Elongation of the fiber optic sensor region causes a measurable delay in the pulses.

Navy Case No. 97966 which is incorporated by reference herein teaches use of a fiber optic laser to measure strain. below has additional details concerning the use of fiber laser sensors.

As discussed herein there is provided an accelerometer having a transducer that can be used with a variety of strain sensors.

Accordingly there is provided an accelerometer including a strain sensor with a substantially linear configuration. The strain sensor is mounted on a transducer such that the strain sensor extends laterally across the transducer. The transducer has a base and a plurality of flaps joined at a first end to the base and supporting the strain sensor at a second end. The flaps translate acceleration in a predefined direction to strain in the strain sensor. Further embodiments have flaps defining an interrupted surface with greater height at the center and flaps that have features for enhancing the strain caused by acceleration.

After coherent light passes through distributor it is absorbed by the doping material in fiber laser . Absorption of this light causes the doping material to emit photons which are gathered by resonance between the gratings. This causes fiber laser to emit a narrow single mode of light. Fiber laser is mounted to a transducer such that acceleration of the transducer material strains the fiber laser cavity. This strain shifts the emission wavelength of the fiber laser . Transducer can have a wide variety of constructions that will be discussed hereinafter.

Fiber laser emission returns along fiber to wavelength division multiplexer where it is separated onto analysis path . An interferometer such as a Mach Zehnder interferometer is positioned on analysis path . Interferometer converts the shifted emission wavelength of fiber laser into a phase shift of the fiber laser light. Interferometer typically includes a first beam splitter A having a delay loop B on one leg and a modulator C on the second leg. Signals from the delay loop B and modulator C are combined in a second beam splitter D to produce the phase shifted signal. Other interferometer designs can produce the same type of signal. A receiver receives the phase shifted signal. Receiver is capable of demodulating and detecting the signal from the fiber laser by various methods well known in the art.

The first embodiment of transducer has at least one flap . Flap is attached to a base of the transducer and extends toward a center of strain sensor at an angle. Equal numbers of flaps can be provided on each side of center and all flaps angle toward the center . Transducer can be made from a polymer material. Transducer allows vertical movement of flaps as shown but resists movement in the transverse direction because of its geometry. Movement in the longitudinal direction cannot be controlled without affecting the vertical motion induced by acceleration. The affect of the longitudinal motion tends to cancel out because of the flap arrangement. The volume in between flaps can be a vacuum gas liquid or solid however it should allow movement of flaps . A gas liquid or solid could provide damping if necessary. In this embodiment the combined top surfaces of the flaps form an interrupted surface that is higher near center . Sensor is mounted under tension across the top surfaces of the flaps and fixed to the outer two flaps with an adhesive such as ultra violet cured epoxy. Adhesive should not interfere with sensor . Mounting to the outermost flaps reduces the constraint on the ends of the sensor and yields greater sensitivity to acceleration.

Increasing the height of interrupted surface near center allows sensor contact with all of the flap upper surfaces . Friction holds the sensor in place laterally. The body of each flap serves as an inertial mass. When transducer is accelerated away from sensor flaps move toward sensor and outward from the center due to the angle of the flaps . This causes an unsupported portion of the sensor between the centermost two flaps to be further tensioned. The outer flaps move with the inner flaps and produce additional strain on the fiber portion at center . The flaps have sufficient width in the direction perpendicular to the direction being sensed to ensure that the flaps are much more stiff against motion in that direction. This stiffness in the transverse direction ensures that the accelerometer has good isolation against responding to accelerations in that direction known as cross axis isolation. Transducer structure also provides good isolation against longitudinal accelerations in the direction parallel to sensor . In this direction the half of the flaps on one side of the center move upward and outward while the half of the flaps on the other side of the center move downward and inward. These two motions tend to cancel producing little net strain on the center of the sensor .

The unsupported fiber portion between the center two flaps can also vibrate in a string mode. This mode is undesirable because it is equally susceptible to acceleration in both directions transverse to the sensor . Thus it is desirable to minimize this mode and push its resonance to a frequency above that in the sensing range. The response of this mode is controlled by mounting the sensor to the transducer with sufficient tension.

A transducer of this form is basically a mass spring system operated well below resonance. In an idealized mass spring system the natural or resonant frequency of the system is given by the following equation 

In the accelerometer the maximum strain on the sensor is related to the maximum displacement of the flap masses. It can be seen from these equations that both resonant frequency and displacement X or sensitivity S are directly related to the ratio K M. If the system is designed for a particular resonant frequency to give a desired bandwidth sensor the sensitivity is predetermined. In general it is desired that the sensitivity S be maximized for a particular resonant frequency. These equations indicate that this is not possible for the idealized mass spring system. However in a non idealized system not consisting of a point mass the limitation on displacement refers to the motion of the center of mass. If a rigid low mass lever arm is used to connect to the sensor it becomes possible for the sensor to experience greater displacement than the center of mass thus increasing the sensitivity to bandwidth tradeoff. The second embodiment uses such a lever arm.

Referring now to the detailed view of flap provided in . Because of the relative mass of the flap mass and lever arm center of mass is relatively low in flap . The distance from base to the center of mass is less than the distance from base to sensor . The ratios of these distances is the ratio by which the displacement of the sensor is increased over the displacement of the center of mass . The flap mass serves as an inertial mass. When the transducer is accelerated downward the flaps move upward and outward from the center . Effectively the flap mass and lever arm pivot on neck . This causes that portion of sensor between the centermost two flaps to be further strained increasing strain in sensor . The resonant frequency is determined by the flap stiffness and can be controlled by the shape mass and material. The thickness of the neck at the base of the flap can also be used to control the stiffness. The equations describe the relationship of this resonant frequency to the motion of the center of mass. The strain is enhanced by the lever arm by the ratio of the distances discussed above. This provides a sensor that has greater sensitivity for a given bandwidth.

In a third embodiment shown in transducer is provided with an additional feature for increasing the mass of the flap mass and lowering its center of gravity. A weight made from a denser material is positioned in flap mass .

In a fourth embodiment shown in flap upper surfaces form a straight interrupted surface. Sufficient contact may be caused by acceleration for flaps to apply tension to sensor . Flaps are constructed with necks joining flap mass to base . Lever portions are omitted in this embodiment.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

