---

title: High temperature light guide
abstract: Disclosed is a method of forming an optical monitoring or transmitting light guide and a resulting apparatus that begins by bonding a bundle of optical fibers together using an epoxy and polishing the distal end of the bundle of optical fibers to create an optical aperture. The ratio of fiber size to binder particulate size of the epoxy used in the bonding process is sufficient to maintain the integrity of the bundle of optical fibers during the polishing of the distal end. The method positions the bundle of optical fibers into a protective sheath and a connector. The coefficient of thermal expansion of the epoxy used in the bonding process matches that of the connector. Once assembled, the invention positions the connector through the opening in the surface of a device, such that the distal end of the bundle of optical fibers is either recessed in, substantially flush with, or extends from the surface of the device through which the connector extends, depending on field-of-view requirements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07435010&OS=07435010&RS=07435010
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 07435010
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070103
---
This application claims the benefit of prior filed U.S. provisional application No. 60 464 271 filed on Apr. 21 2003 and the same is incorporated fully herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract number N00024 98 D 8124 awarded by the U.S. Navy. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention generally relates to fiber optics and more particularly to a fiber optic light guide apparatus that is useful in high temperature hostile environments.

It is often desirable to record illumination conditions and or images within high temperature hostile environments. For example it is often desirable to be able to view the internal operation of high temperature machinery such as a furnace engine cylinder etc. when evaluating the machinery performance. Similarly as described in Blast Instrumentation for Lethality Assessment Johns Hopkins APL Technical Digest Volume 22 No. 3 2001 page 355 366 incorporated herein by reference as background it is desirable to observe the difference between the time of first light compared with the time of first fragment impact during testing of ballistic missiles. Similarly it is often desirable to transmit information optically through a high temperature interface.

However conventional light guides are not suitable for such high temperature and hostile environments. To the contrary conventional light guides will become destroyed e.g. melt suffer fiber separation etc. when placed in high temperature and or hostile environments and are therefore incapable of withstanding such high temperature hostile environments. The invention described below provides a light guide that is useful in such high temperature and hostile environments.

The invention forms an optical monitoring or transmitting light guide apparatus by bonding a bundle of optical fibers together using an epoxy and positioning the bundle of optical fibers into a protective sheath and a connector. The connector is positioned at one end of the protective sheath.

To allow use in high temperature environments the invention includes a high temperature fiber such as borosilicate glass BSG quartz or other similar materials. Further the invention uses a high temperature epoxy. To prevent the fibers from separating to provide an environmental seal of the interstitial spaces between fibers and to keep the fibers fixed relative to each other at high temperatures the coefficient of thermal expansion of the epoxy used in the bonding process matches that of the connector. The protective sheath and connector are also made of high temperature materials.

The distal end of the bundle of optical fibers is polished to create an optical aperture. The distal end of the bundle of optical fibers is positioned at the end of the connector. In order to allow such high temperature fibers and epoxy to be polished without causing separation and fracturing of the fibers the ratio of fiber size to binder particulate size of the epoxy used in the bonding process is sufficient to maintain the integrity of the bundle of optical fibers during the polishing of the distal end. More specifically the ratio of fiber size to binder particulate size of the epoxy used in the bonding process is above 25 and is typically between approximately 25 and 50. Ratios above 50 will also work.

The connector is extended through an opening in the surface of a device such that the distal end of the bundle of optical fibers can be either recessed in substantially flush planar with or extend outward from the surface of the device through which the connector extends. The connector can include a fastener such as a threaded jam nut clip etc. that is adapted to engage corresponding threads clips etc. in the opening of the device. The connector can also include a seal on the connector to seal the opening of the device making the exterior of the device gas and liquid tight.

The optical monitoring or transmitting system used by the invention includes a central processing unit and at least one of the aforementioned optical monitoring or transmitting light guides connected to the central processing unit. Again the connector extends through an opening in the surface of a device. A second connector is positioned at a second end of the protective sheath that is opposite the first end of the protective sheath where the optical monitoring or transmitting light guide connector is positioned. The second connector connects the second end of the light guide to the central processing unit.

These and other aspects and objects of the present invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following description while indicating preferred embodiments of the present invention and numerous specific details thereof is given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such modifications.

The present invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the nonlimiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

As mentioned above it is often desirable to record illumination conditions and or images within high temperature hostile environments. However conventional light guides are not suitable for such high temperature and hostile environments. For purposes of this disclosure high temperatures are in the range of 1 200 F. to 2 000 F. and hostile environments include those that have characteristics such as high pressure high vacuum or those that are caustic abrasive etc. For example high temperature means up to 1200 F. for borosilicate light guides high NA range from 0.66 to 0.88 and up to 2000 F. for quartz light guides NA 0.22 . There is no lower temperature bound since the invention will also work at lower temperatures. To the contrary conventional light guides will become destroyed e.g. melt suffer fiber separation etc. when placed in high temperature and or hostile environments and are therefore incapable of withstanding such high temperature hostile environments.

Therefore the invention provides a light guide that has a high temperature fiber such as borosilicate glass BSG quartz or other similar materials. Further the invention uses a special high temperature epoxy adhesive etc. has the characteristics that are described below or other similar materials. Conventional high temperature fibers and epoxies could not be used because of the unusual mechanical stresses that developed during polishing between conventional high temperature fibers and conventional high temperature epoxies. To prevent the fibers from separating and to keep the fibers fixed relative to each other at high temperatures the coefficient of thermal expansion of the epoxy used in the bonding process matches that of the connector. The protective sheath and connector are also made of high temperature materials such as stainless steel polymide etc.

More specifically as shown in the invention forms an optical monitoring or transmitting light guide apparatus by bonding a bundle of optical fibers together using an epoxy . The bundle of optical fibers is positioned within a protective sheath a distal connector and a proximate connector . The distal connector is designed to properly operate at high temperatures.

Some possible materials for the protective sheath include any type of high temperature polyimide stainless steel and or silicone rubber. Alternatively a vanguard layer made of polyimide with a silicone rubber outer later for kink resistance can be used in addition to or in place of the protective sheath . The vanguard layer is a higher temperature tougher material that does the most to protect the fibers hence the use of the term vanguard. The protective sheath and optical fibers could be any length e.g. 10 meters as indicated by the break in the drawing. The connector is positioned at one end of the protective sheath and includes a fastener and a protective tube . The protective tube includes a shoulder and a tapered or rounded end as well as an opening for the optical fiber bundle . The protective tube can be made of any high temperature material including stainless steel etc. The end of the optical fiber bundle is typically flush with the end of the protective tube . Alternatively the distal tip could be polished to any desirable shape to accommodate alternative fields of view. At the other end of the protective sheath is a second connector e.g. standard SMA having a connector body and an opening through which the bundle of optical fibers can pass and be visible.

The high temperature characteristics of the inventive device are not necessarily maintained over the whole light guide assembly. The protective sheath maintains proper characteristics up to about 800 F. while silicone rubber maintains proper characteristics up to 450 F. The high temperature focus of 1200 2000 F. is concentrated at the distal tip of connector .

The distal end of the bundle of optical fibers is polished to create an optical aperture. This polishing process is controlled to make any range of wide angle or narrow angle aperture depending upon the specific application of the light guide. A bevel facet or spherical radius may be polished onto the surface of the fiber to steer or shape the light gathering capabilities in a specific direction.

Conventional devices could not use such high temperature fibers and epoxies because they were difficult to polish without damaging the optics which unacceptably reduced yield. In order to allow such high temperature fibers and epoxy to be polished without causing separation and fracturing of the fibers the inventors used a specially modified non standard high temperature fiber optic epoxy filler that has very small binder particulates to provide a ratio of fiber size to binder particulate size filler size grit size etc. of the epoxy used in the bonding process that is sufficient to maintain the integrity of the bundle of optical fibers during the polishing of the distal end . Polishing the fibers provides a uniform planar surface from fiber to fiber and optimizes the light gathering capability of the fibers. Conventional fiber optic epoxies uses binder particulates that are too large relative to fiber strand size to fill the inter fiber spaces and the polishing grinding results in fractured fibers. Therefore the invention uses a new fiber optic epoxy that has a binder particulate size that is substantially smaller than conventional fiber optic epoxies. More specifically the ratio of fiber size to binder particulate size of the epoxy used in the bonding process is above 25 and is typically as high as 50 a higher ratio represents a smaller epoxy binder particulate size Ratios greater than 50 will also work but could require additional processing steps depending on the size of the fibers. For example if the individual fiber size is 50 micrometers in diameter the invention would use an epoxy binder particulate size of between 1 and 2 micrometers thereby producing a fiber size to binder particulate size ratio of between 25 and 50.

In addition because of the unusually small epoxy binder particulate size used in the invention a new technique for applying the epoxy to the optic fibers was developed. More specifically with the invention the epoxy is injected between the optic fibers using a syringe or similar injection apparatus to ensure that the epoxy is fully positioned between all optic fibers. This is contrary to the conventional application methodologies which use a spatula or calking gun to apply the larger particulate epoxies.

As shown in the connector is extended through an opening in a surface of a device such that the distal end of the bundle of optical fibers can either extend outward from be substantially flush with or be recessed in the outer surface of the device through which the connector extends. The device surface shown in cross section in could be the wall of any apparatus such as the cylinder wall of an internal combustion engine the wall of a furnace the outer surface of a ballistic missile etc. The opening in the device comprises a stepped opening that accommodates matches the shape of the step created by the shoulder .

The invention can optionally use shims washers etc. between the shoulder and the step in the opening to adjust the position of the distal end within the opening . Alternatively the connector is designed to have a length to allow it to have the desired position within the opening of the surface . Note that the opening in the surface could be formed to match the shape of the shoulder to assist with proper positioning.

The connector can include a threaded jam nut clip etc. fastener that is adapted to engage corresponding threads clips etc. in the opening of the device. In one embodiment the threads clips etc. would be patterned on part of the shoulder to allow them to engage corresponding threads clips etc. in the opening . Alternatively the fastener could include self tapping threads or could be affixed within the opening using a chemical fastener e.g. high temperature glue epoxy weld etc. . The connector can also include a seal at shoulder to seal the opening of the device making the exterior of the device gas and or liquid tight.

The optical monitoring or transmitting system used by the invention shown in includes a central processing unit optic electrical converter for converting receiving recording processing and transmitting the light images transmitted along the light guide and at least one connector that extends through an opening in the surface of the device. The second connector is positioned at a second end of the light guide that is opposite the end where the optical monitoring or transmitting light guide connector is positioned and connects the light guide to the central processing unit .

In item the invention positions the bundle of optical fibers into the protective sheath and connector. Again the coefficient of thermal expansion of the epoxy used in the bonding process matches that of the connector. A second connector is connected to the other end of the protective sheath . Once assembled the invention positions the connector through the opening in the surface of the device such that the distal end of the bundle of optical fibers is either recessed in substantially flush with or extends from the surface of the device through which the connector extends.

Therefore the invention provides a light guide that has a high temperature fiber held together by a high temperature epoxy. Conventional high temperature fibers and epoxies could not be used because of the unusual mechanical stresses that developed during polishing between conventional high temperature fibers and conventional high temperature epoxies. To prevent the fibers from separating and to keep the fibers fixed relative to each other at high temperatures the coefficient of thermal expansion of the epoxy used in the bonding process matches that of the connector. The protective sheath and connector are also made of high temperature materials such as stainless steel polyimide etc. Conventional devices could not use such high temperature fibers and epoxies because they were difficult to polish which unacceptably reduced yield. In order to allow such high temperature fibers and epoxy to be polished without causing separation or fracturing of the fibers the ratio of fiber size to binder particulate size of the epoxy used in the bonding process is sufficient to maintain the integrity of the bundle of optical fibers during the polishing of the distal end. More specifically the ratio of fiber size to binder particulate size of the epoxy used in the bonding process is above 25 and is between approximately 25 and 50.

The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. For example while all figures imply normal installation for distal tip one ordinarily skilled in the art would understand that the connector could be used at any angle as required by field of view requirements. Similarly while the device described above is one which receives light as would be understood by those ordinarily skilled in the art the invention is equally applicable to fiber optic devices that transmit data signals in high temperature hostile environments.

While the invention has been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

