---

title: System and method for assigning user preference settings for a category, and in particular a media category
abstract: A system and method for assigning user preference settings for fields in a category using selected settings for only a subset of the media category fields is disclosed. A subset of fields for a media category is defined. A base setting for each field in the subset of the category fields is established. The base setting may be a weight or preference value. The base setting may be established by the user selecting a base setting or may be a default base setting. Once a user selects the settings for the subset of category fields, a set weight for the fields in the category not in the subset is determined using the base setting. That is possible because the fields in the subset of category fields are chosen from fields that contain aspects and attributes of the other fields.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941764&OS=07941764&RS=07941764
owner: Abo Enterprises, LLC
number: 07941764
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070404
---
The present invention is a system and method for assigning user preference settings for fields in a category and particularly a media category using selected settings for only a subset of the category fields.

In recent years there has been an enormous increase in the amount of digital media available online. Services such as Apple s iTunes for example enable users to legally purchase and download music. Other services such as Yahoo Music Unlimited and RealNetwork s Rhapsody for example provide access to millions of songs for a monthly subscription fee. YouTube provides users access to video media. As a result media items have become much more accessible to consumers worldwide. However the increased accessibility of media has only heightened a long standing problem for the media industry which is namely the issue of linking users with media that matches their preferences.

Many companies technologies and approaches have emerged to address this issue. Being able to link users with media that match their preferences allows companies to effectively make recommendations of media items to users. Some companies assign ratings to attributes of identified media. The ratings are assembled to create a holistic classification for the media that is then used by a recommendation engine to produce recommendations. Other companies take a communal approach wherein recommendations are based on the collective wisdom of a group of users with similar tastes by profiling the habits of a particular user based on the information provided by the user and then searching similar profiles of other users. Either approach involves the soliciting assembling and reviewing of information about a user and or the user s media likes or dislikes. That information then is used to establish user preferences on which to base media recommendations.

In some recommendation generation schemes the user s media preferences are used to determine recommendations. User preferences allow more accurate targeting of recommendations. A user may establish his preferences by assigning a weight to different media categories. These media categories may include for example genre artist title album or presentation date of release or the like. The weight assigned by the user for each of the media categories is used to define the user s preferences and from those preferences a profile for that user. One example of such an approach is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 484 130 entitled P2P NETWORK FOR PROVIDING REAL TIME MEDIA RECOMMENDATIONS filed on Jul. 11 2006 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Media categories may however contain a large number of fields. To effectively assign a weight to a media category the user must assign a weight to each of the fields within that media category. This may be a difficult and time consuming effort for the user depending on the number of fields in a media category. The genre media category provides a pertinent example of this problem.

Genre may be considered the predominant media category for determining a user s preferences. The genre category is generally recognized as comprising up to one hundred and forty eight 148 different fields. Users may not spend and in most cases will not spend the time to assign 148 different weights to these fields. Alternatively the user may opt to just assign weights to only certain selected fields of interest. In either scenario the weighting of the genre media category would be incomplete. As a result preferences calculated using the incomplete weighting of a media category would be inherently inaccurate. Therefore any media item recommendation based on those preferences would be inaccurate. Accordingly there is a need for a system and method to effectively assign preference weights to a set of fields within a media category and particularly the genre media category without the user having to individually assign a weight to each field within that media category.

The present invention is a system and method for assigning user preference settings for fields in a category using selected settings for only a subset of the category fields. A subset of fields for a category is defined. A base setting for each field in the subset of the category fields is established. The base setting may be set by the user selecting a base setting or by a default base setting. Once a user selects the base settings for the subset of category fields a set weight is determined for the fields in the category not in the subset. That is possible because the fields in the subset of category fields are chosen from fields that contain aspects and attributes of the other fields.

In one embodiment a weighting coefficient corresponding to each field in the subset is determined. For example with respect to a media category in particular if there are eight fields in the subset of the media categories each field in the media category may have eight different weighting coefficients. A weighting calculation may be used to determine the set weight. The weighting calculation using the base setting and the weighting coefficient is used to calculate the individual weights for each of the fields in the media category. Calculating the weight for a field using the weighting calculation involves multiplying the weighting coefficient for that field by the base setting for each field in the subset. The weighting coefficients initially may be determined from the user s existing profile or play history. Subsequently the weighting coefficients may be adjusted based on the user s preferences and continued play history.

The weights for the fields may be used to score media items. The user may use the score of the media items to filter received recommendations of media items send recommendations of media items to others select media items to play develop and sort play lists of media items purchase media items from subscription services and the like.

The fields in the subset may be displayed on a base setting screen graphic user interface GUI . The base settings screen GUI displays the field and the base setting established for the field. The base setting may be a weight or preference value. It should be understood that for the purposes of describing the present invention the terms weight and preference value have the same meaning and may be used interchangeably. Each field in the subset may have a base setting selector actionable by the user to select a base setting for that field. The base setting selector may be a sliding bar with a range of 0 to 10. The user may select the base setting for one or more fields displayed on the base settings screen GUI by adjusting the base setting selector for that field. The base settings screen GUI also includes a base settings Done button. Once the user has selected the base setting for a field or if the user chooses to not select a base setting for any field the user actuates the base settings Done button. The actuation of the base settings Done button indicates that the user has completed the base setting selection process and initiated the determination of the weights for one or more of the fields in the media category not in the subset using the weighting calculation based on weighting coefficients and the base settings. The weights calculated are stored and designated as an advanced setting for each of the fields.

In another embodiment the user may elect to customize one or more fields by assigning the weight for the one or more fields as the advanced setting. In such a case the weight assigned by the user for the one or more fields as the advanced setting applies and the weight determined using the weighting calculation based on the base settings of the fields in the subset does not apply. As such the base settings of the fields in the subset do not affect the weight of the field assigned as the advanced setting. The weight determined using the weighting calculation based on the base settings of the fields in the subset continues to apply on the fields on which the user did not assign the weight.

The base settings screen GUI may include an Advanced button. Upon the user actuating the Advanced button an advanced settings screen GUI is presented to the user. The advanced settings screen GUI displays all of the fields that are in the media category and the advanced setting established for the field. Each field has a weight displayed as the advanced setting. The weights shown as the advanced settings are the weights determined using the weighting calculation based on the base settings for the fields in the subset. Each field has an advanced setting selector. The advanced setting selector may be a sliding bar with a range of 0 to 10. The user may customize the weight of the field by assigning the weight for a field on the advanced setting screen GUI by adjusting the advanced setting selector for that field. The field for which the user assigns a weight using the advanced setting selector may appear different than the field for which the user did not assign a weight using the advanced setting selector. In this manner the user may be able to determine which fields have weights that were assigned and which fields have weights that were determined from the base settings.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

The present invention is a system and method for assigning user preference settings for fields in a category using selected settings for only a subset of the category fields. A subset of fields for a category is defined. A base setting for each field in the subset of the category fields is established. The base setting may be set by the user selecting a base setting or by a default base setting. Once a user selects the settings for the subset of category fields a set weight is determined for the fields in the category not in the subset. That is possible because the fields in the subset of category fields are chosen from fields that contain aspects and attributes of the other fields. Weights for different media categories for example genre artist title album date of release or the like may be used to score or rate media items and score and filter media item recommendations. The user s preferences for the different media categories are used to develop a profile for the user. An approach to determining and utilizing user preferences for media categories and the user profile is described in co pending and previously incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 484 130 entitled P2P NETWORK FOR PROVIDING REAL TIME MEDIA RECOMMENDATIONS. 

As background a media category typically contains multiple fields. For example WinAmp the proprietary media player written by Nullsoft a subsidiary of Time Warner Inc. currently identifies one hundred and forty eight 148 different fields in the music genre category as one example of a media category. shows a list of these one hundred and forty eight 148 different genre fields . Each genre field contains attributes and aspects. These attributes and aspects may be melody harmony beat instrumentation lyrics orchestration vocal character and the like for example. Genre fields may have attributes and aspects that are present in other genre fields. For example the Folk Rock field will have attributes and aspects associated with the Rock field as will the Techno field Industrial field and Death Metal field to name just a few. The attributes and aspects of some genre fields may actually be present in most of the other fields. As such these genre fields may be viewed as base fields meaning that they contain attributes and aspects that will have a highest presence or prevalence in the largest number of other fields. The aforementioned Rock field may be one of these fields as well as the Country field Folk field and a few others. Because of the prevalence of the attributes and aspects of the base genre fields in the other fields in the genre media category a preference setting of a base field can be used to calculate the weights of the other fields.

Please note that although the present invention is described by example with reference to media categories it should be understood that the present invention applies to any type of category and accordingly the present invention should not limited to media categories.

For example in the user has selected base settings for certain of the fields. The user s selections include Rock A set to 9 using base setting selector A Folk B set to 6 using base setting selector B Country C set to 3 using base setting selector C Jazz D set to 8 using base setting selector D Classical E set to 3 using base setting selector E and Funk H set to 7 using base setting selector H. In the example the user did not select any base setting for Techno F and Alternative G. Accordingly base selectors F and G retained the initial base setting of 5 as a default base setting.

The base settings screen GUI includes a base settings Done button . Once the user has completed the selection of the base settings using the base setting selectors the user actuates the base settings Done button . Upon actuation of the base settings Done button the base settings for the genre fields in the subset whether selected or default are used to determine the weights of one or more of the genre fields in the genre media category not in the subset . As further described below a weighting calculation may be employed to determine the weights for all the genre media category fields. Actuating the base settings Done button initiates the weighting calculation. In the weighting calculation the base settings for each field in the subset are multiplied by weighting coefficients for each field in the genre media category to provide a weight for that genre field which is stored as an advanced setting.

Note that other means besides and or in addition to a weighting calculation may be used to determine the weights of the category fields. For example heuristic methods or processes may be used to determine the weights of the category fields from the base settings. It should be understood that the present invention is not limited to using a weighting calculation.

The base settings screen GUI also includes an Advanced button . Instead of actuating the base settings Done button optionally the user may actuate the Advanced button . Actuating the Advanced button causes an advanced settings screen GUI to open an example of which is illustrated in . Actuating the Advanced button initiates the weighting calculation and allows the user to bypass selecting a base setting for the subset of genre fields and assign a weight to each genre field individually in the media category.

As illustrated in all of the genre fields within the genre media category are displayed on the advanced settings screen GUI . For exemplary and ease of explanation purposes only sixteen of the one hundred forty eight 148 genre fields namely genre fields I J K L M N P Q R S T U V W X are displayed. The advanced settings screen GUI could display all one hundred and forty eight 148 genre fields .

If the user has not previously assigned an advanced setting for a genre field the advanced settings shown for each genre field will be assigned the weights calculated by the weighting calculation using the base settings from the base settings screen GUI as discussed above with respect to . Accordingly upon initially opening the advance settings screen GUI each genre field will display an advanced setting as shown on . For example the Folk Rock field I shows the sliding bar half way between 7 and 8 for an advanced setting of 7.5 which is the weight calculated by the weighting calculation for that genre field .

Each genre field displayed on the advanced settings screen GUI has an advanced setting selector namely advanced setting selectors I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X. The advanced setting selectors shown in are sliding bars with a range of 0 to 10. The advanced setting selectors may be any mechanisms allowing the user to assign a weight as an advanced setting for the genre fields . Instead of accepting the advanced setting calculated by the weighting calculation using the base settings selected by the user on the base settings screen GUI the user may optionally customize a genre field by assigning a weight for that field. The user assigns a weight for a genre field by adjusting the advanced setting selector for that genre field .

For example in the advanced setting for the Punk field Q may have had a weight of 9 as calculated using the weighting calculation based on the base settings. The user did not desire the Punk field Q to have a 9 weight setting. The user subsequently changed the weight to 4 for the Punk field Q. The user changed the assigned weight by adjusting the advanced setting selector Q to 4 .

The advanced settings screen GUI also includes an advanced settings Done button . When the user completes the intended assignment of weights for the genre fields or if the user does not want to assign individual weights for any of the genre fields but instead accepts the weights as calculated by the weighting calculation the user actuates the advanced settings Done button . Upon actuation of the advanced settings Done button the genre fields with the advanced settings assigned by the user have the weights as assigned. The genre fields which the user did not assign by an advanced setting continue to have the advanced settings as initially shown and retain the weights calculated using the weighting calculation using the base settings.

Optionally the genre fields with weights individually assigned by the user selecting advanced settings may be visually distinguished in some manner over the genre fields that retain the weights calculated by the weighting calculation using the base settings. The appearance difference for example may involve changing the color of the genre field . In this manner the user can immediately determine which genre fields on the advanced settings screen GUI have weights that were assigned by the user or have weights that were calculated by the weighting calculation using the base settings of the subset of genre fields .

As illustrated in the user opens the base settings screen GUI in the media application step . The base settings screen GUI displays the genre fields in the subset each with a base setting selector . The particular genre fields in the subset represent fields that may have the most overlapping aspects and attributes to the other fields in the media category. For example as shown on the Rock field A was included as one of the genre fields in the subset . There are aspects or attributes of the Rock field A in most or all of the other genre fields in the genre media category. The Folk Rock field I may have a high predominance or prevalence of the attributes and aspects of the Rock field A while the Gospel field R may have a low prevalence of the attributes and aspects of the Rock field A. The amount or degree of the attributes and aspects of a genre field in the subset that the other genre fields in the media category have is reflected in a weighting coefficient. Additionally the weighting coefficients also are set to reflect the overall interests likes and dislikes of the user.

Once the user has opened the base settings screen GUI the user chooses the genre fields in the subset for which the user desires to select a base setting. The user selects the base setting for genre field in the subset by adjusting the base setting selector . If a user does not provide a base setting for a particular genre field in the subset that field is automatically set to a default setting step . In one embodiment the user may select a base setting for the genre fields in the subset in the range of 0 to 10 with 5 being the midpoint and default setting. The base settings selected by the user allow the user to further adjust the influence that the genre field in the subset has on the set weight of all the genre fields in the media category. In other words in addition to the weighting coefficient the base settings represent an influence factor used to determine a set weight of a field in the media category.

Upon completing the selection of the base settings the user actuates the base settings Done button step . This action indicates to the system that the user has completed the selection of the base settings for the genre fields in the subset . The system stores the base settings which include both user selected and default settings until and if the user subsequently opens the base settings screen GUI again and overrides any settings for the genre fields in the subset .

The set weights for the genre fields in the media category are determined using a weighting calculation in the preferred embodiment step . The weighting calculation multiplies the weighting coefficient of each genre field within the media category for each of the genre fields in the subset by the base setting for that field in the subset . The base setting may be as selected by the user or the default setting.

As an example assume that the weighting values for the Folk Rock field I corresponding to each genre field in the subset are as follows 

The weighting coefficient w is calculated by dividing the individual weighting value by the Total of the weighting values. Thus the weighting coefficients w for the Folk Rock field I are calculated as follows 

Incorporating the values for the Folk Rock field I in the above calculation the weighting calculation for the Folk Rock field I is Folk Rock 0.5 9 0 3 0.5 6 0 5 0 3 0 5 0 8 0 7 7.5 The set weight of the Folk Rock field I as calculated above corresponds to the weight shown on the advanced settings screen GUI for the Folk Rock field I in above.

Instead of actuating the base settings Done button the user actuates the Advanced button on the base settings screen GUI to open the advanced settings screen GUI step . By actuating the Advanced button the advanced settings screen GUI opens step . The advanced settings screen GUI displays all of the genre fields in the media category. In this embodiment the genre fields in the genre media category are displayed. Each genre field has an advanced setting selector . The advanced setting selector will indicate the weights selected for that genre field . If the user has not previously assigned a weight by adjusting the advanced setting selector the weight setting displayed will be the set weight determined by the weighting calculation using the base settings.

If the user desires to customize the weight of a genre field the user assigns the weight for the genre field by adjusting the advanced setting selector for that genre field step . The advanced settings screen GUI includes an advanced settings Done button . When the user completes assigning the weight of the fields he chooses using the advanced setting selector the user actuates the advanced settings Done button step .

Upon actuating the advanced settings Done button the genre fields that have a weight assigned by the user adjusting the advanced setting selector will have the assigned weights as the user assigned. The weights determined using the weighting calculation and based on the base settings are replaced with the assigned weights. The genre fields that the user did not assign the weights by adjusting the advanced setting selector retain the set weights determined by the weighting calculation based on the base settings step . The user then has the flexibility of assigning the weights of certain or all of the genre fields in the media category as the user so desires.

Optionally once the user actuates the advanced settings Done button the advanced settings screen GUI changes the appearance of the genre fields of which the user directly assigned the weight by adjusting the advanced setting selector . The change in the appearance may be a change in color shading or any other indication to distinguish the set weights determined by the weighting calculations from the assigned weights assigned by the user step . In this manner the user may easily determine the manner in which the weights of the genre fields were established.

The server may be comprised of several components to facilitate user connections and provide media related services to the user. These components are illustrated as a web component a market component and a server component . The server also contains a database that stores data necessary to support the components .

Turning to the components the web component provides users access to registration services and permission to access services provided by the server . The web component also provides the media application downloading functionality to devices that interface with the server . The media application software is executed on the user s computing devices to login access and receive the various media based services from the server . The web component provides Internet communication protocol support for communication to users registration support and media application downloading via an Internet based network .

The market component provides downloadable media items to users. The downloaded items may include songs or video and may be of any format type desired including but not limited to MP3. The server component contains a web services application programming interface API to communicate with external devices over the network . The server component also contains data models and recommendation logic that controls the overall services provided by the server such as providing media item recommendations to users based on the user s preferences and or media collection as will be described in more detail below.

The server is also able to communicate with subscription services for accessing media items for downloading. Some media items requested may not be stored locally in the database of the server but rather obtained from subscription services only when needed or on demand. Further the server can communicate over the network with content identification systems to provide identifying and other characteristic information about media items such as information regarding artists song titles genre etc. in the example of song media content in particular. This allows the server to provide users with user friendly information about media items as part of the services provided by the server . The content identification systems may be coupled with or contain content descriptors that are compared to media items to identify and provide information regarding the media items. For an example with regard to songs in particular the content descriptors may include known fingerprints and or Global Unique IDs GUIDs to identify songs and obtain metadata containing information about the songs such as title artist genre etc. A uniform resource locator URL may be included to identify location s for the descriptor information.

The server is adapted to communicate and connect with multiple user devices to provide services to a user. The user devices may be any type of computing device that is capable of performing communications over the network to reach the server and other user devices . The user device may also include a user interface which may include components such as a display speakers a user input device and the like. Examples of user devices include but are not limited to home computers computers at work laptop computers wireless portable media player PMP devices hand held computer devices such as personal digital assistants PDA with remote communication capabilities and the like. A web browser may be included within each user device to provide the user an interface for Internet based communications including those with the server .

Each user device that desires to access and receive the services of the server first establishes a user account using a standard web browser or other standard Internet communication interface. This allows the user device to download a media application onto the user device using the web component services of the server to provide a customized software interface to the server . After the media application is downloaded onto a user device from the server the media application executes on the user device . The user device uses a connection with the web services API to communicate with the market and components of the server to receive media items based services via the user device .

The user device also typically contains an audio video A V player that allows the user to use or play back any media item desired. Examples of A V players include but are not limited to Apple iTunes Apple iPOD and the like. Media items selected for use and or play include those stored locally at the user device in a user s A V collection and or any media item accessed from the server another user device the subscription service s and or any other system accessible by or coupled to the network . Media items can also be recommended to other users in response to a user causing its user device to send a recommendation for a media item over the network . The recommendation may go to the server and then to the destination user or the recommendation may be sent directly to the destination user without reaching the server .

The user device may also contain a recommendation engine . The recommendation engine is a program algorithm or control mechanism that handles sending and or receiving media item recommendations over the network . The recommendation engine may also score media items based on user preferences for the different media categories for example user genre artist title album lyrics date of release or the like and then filter recommendations from the other user devices based on such preferences. In the system the server receives information when the user device and in particular the recommendation engine causes a media item recommendation to be sent to another user and or when the user device uses or plays a media item that has been recommended from another user.

The user opens the base settings screen GUI and selects the base settings for the genre fields in the subset step . The recommendation engine determines the set weights of the genre fields using the weighting calculation and stores the set weights on the user device as advanced settings step . Optionally the recommendation engine may also send the advanced settings to the server step .

The user then has the option of opening the advanced settings screen GUI and assigning the weights for the genre fields in the media category step . If the user does assign the weights the recommendation engine changes the advanced settings to the weights assigned by the user step . The recommendation engine sends the advanced settings updated to reflect the weights assigned by the user to the server step .

The recommendation engine scores any media items located on the user device using the advanced settings and develops a playlist step . The recommendation engine may send the playlist to the server step and develops recommendations for acquiring additional media items step .

The user device A may contact one or more of the subscription services to request the purchase of a media item on the playlist that is not stored in the user device A step . In response the subscription service may execute a purchase agreement with the user and send the media item to the user device A step . The user device A downloads the purchased media items step and updates the playlist step . The recommendation engine A then sends the updated playlist to the server step .

If the user plays a media item step user device A sends a recommendation for that played media item to user device B. The recommendation may be sent to the server and then to the user device B steps and . Alternatively the recommendation may be sent by the user device A directly to user device B step .

Although the embodiments of the present invention are directed to the genre media category the present invention may be applied to any media category and accordingly the present invention should not be limited in its scope to the genre media category but be understood to apply equally to any other media category.

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

