---

title: Offset connection bone anchor assembly
abstract: A bone anchor assembly for coupling an offset bone anchor with a previously inserted spinal fixation element and method of use is provided. Exemplary embodiments of a bone anchor assembly are particularly suited for use in a rod-first spinal surgical technique in which a bone anchor inserted into a patient vertebra may be separated from a previously inserted spinal fixation element by a separation distance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08894690&OS=08894690&RS=08894690
owner: DePuy Synthes Products, LLC
number: 08894690
owner_city: Raynham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
The present invention relates to offset connection bone anchors and methods of use during orthopedic surgery. More particularly the present invention relates to offset connection bone anchor assemblies for coupling a spinal fixation element with an offset bone anchor that is displaced from the spinal fixation element.

For a number of known reasons spinal fixation devices are used in orthopedic surgery to align and or fix a desired relationship between adjacent vertebral bodies. Such devices typically include a spinal fixation element such as a relatively rigid fixation rod that is coupled to adjacent vertebrae by attaching the element to various anchoring devices such as hooks bolts wires or screws. The fixation elements can have a predetermined contour that has been designed according to the properties of the target implantation site and once installed the instrument holds the vertebrae in a desired spatial relationship either until desired healing or spinal fusion has taken place or for some longer period of time.

Spinal fixation elements can be anchored to specific portions of vertebrae. Since each vertebra varies in shape and size a variety of anchoring devices have been developed to facilitate engagement of a particular portion of the bone. Pedicle screw assemblies for example have a shape and size that is configured to engage pedicle bone. Such screws typically include a threaded shank that is adapted to be threaded into a vertebra and a head portion having a rod receiving element usually in the form of a U shaped slot formed in the head. A set screw plug or similar type of fastening mechanism is used to lock the fixation element e.g. a rod into the rod receiving head of the pedicle screw. In use the shank portion of each screw is threaded into a vertebra and once properly positioned a rod is seated through the rod receiving member of each screw and the rod is locked in place by tightening a cap or other fastener mechanism to securely interconnect each screw and the fixation rod.

Recently the trend in spinal surgery has been moving toward providing minimally invasive elements and methods for implanting spinal fixation devices. For example one such method a rod first method includes inserting a spinal rod through a first incision and positioning the spinal rod along a patient s spinal column adjacent to one or more vertebra. After the spinal rod is inserted a first bone anchor is inserted through the same incision or a remote incision and each additional bone anchor is inserted through a separate incision along the spinal rod. After a bone anchor is inserted and anchored in bone the bone anchor is coupled to the spinal rod. A rod first method is a minimally invasive technique in which the bone anchors are inserted after the rod and adjacent to the rod as opposed to a conventional surgical technique in which the bone anchors are inserted first and then the rod is placed in rod receiving elements lying over the heads of the bone anchors.

Unfortunately in many instances the bone anchors may not be inserted immediately adjacent to the spinal rod. Suitable vertebral sites for engagement of a bone anchor may not lie along a line. Using a conventional technique the spinal rod can be bent to align the spinal rod with the bone anchors. Unfortunately in percutaneous or minimally invasive procedures it is more difficult to adjust a spinal rod using a technique such as bending to make contact between the spinal rod and the bone anchors because the spinal rod is inserted and positioned in a patient before bone anchor insertion. Thus there is a need for an offset connection bone anchor assembly configured to couple with a previously inserted spinal fixation element such as a spinal rod from which it is offset.

In accordance with a first aspect a bone anchor assembly is provided for connecting a previously inserted spinal fixation element with an offset bone anchor that is displaced from the spinal fixation element. The bone anchor assembly includes a bone anchor. The bone anchor includes a shaft and a seat element. The shaft has an engagement portion for engaging bone disposed at a distal end of the shaft an extension portion disposed at a proximal end of the shaft and a central axis extending through the engagement portion of the shaft and the extension portion of the shaft. The extension portion has a length greater than a cross sectional height of the spinal fixation element. The seat element is disposed between the engagement portion of the shaft and the extension portion of the shaft. The seat element has a profile flared in the direction of the proximal end of the shaft. The seat element also has a top surface configured to seat a previously inserted spinal fixation element and facing the proximal end of the shaft. The top surface of the seat element has a first seat distance. The first seat distance is a radial distance measured between the central axis of the bone anchor shaft and an outer edge of the top surface of the seat element measured in a first direction. According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the bone anchor assembly may also include a clamp element configured to clamp the spinal fixation element against the top surface of the seat element. The clamp element may include a securing element or the bone anchor assembly may include a separate securing element for securing the spinal fixation element between the seat element and the clamp element.

According to other aspects of an exemplary embodiment the first seat distance may be greater than or about equal to the sum of the half a width of the spinal fixation element the shaft radius measured at a distance equal to half the height of the spinal fixation element above the top surface of the seat element and 2 mm. The first seat distance may be a maximum seat distance and may be larger than a distance between the central axis of the bone anchor shaft and an outer edge of the top surface of the seat element in a different direction. The seat element may have a maximum seat distance in more than one direction.

According to other aspects of an exemplary embodiment the seat element may be affixed to the shaft of the bone anchor or the seat element may be integral with the shaft of the bone anchor. Alternately the seat element may be rotatably coupled with the shaft of the bone anchor. The seat element may include a seat lock for fixing a position of the seat element relative to the shaft of the bone anchor. The bone anchor shaft may include a breakaway portion disposed at a proximal end of the shaft and configured to separate from the shaft.

In accordance with another aspect a bone anchor assembly is provided for coupling a previously inserted spinal fixation element with an offset bone anchor that is displaced from the spinal fixation element. The method includes providing a bone anchor assembly. The bone anchor assembly includes a bone anchor. The bone anchor includes a shaft and a seat element. The shaft has an engagement portion for engaging bone disposed at a distal end of the shaft an extension portion disposed at a proximal end of the shaft and a central axis extending through the engagement portion of the shaft and the extension portion of the shaft. The seat element is disposed between the engagement portion of the shaft and the extension portion of the shaft. The seat element has a profile flared toward the proximal end of the shaft. The seat element also has a top surface configured to seat a previously inserted spinal fixation element and facing the proximal end of the shaft. The top surface of the seat element has a first seat distance. The first seat distance which is a maximum seat distance is a radial distance between the central axis of the bone anchor shaft and an outer edge of the top surface of the seat element measured in a first direction. The bone anchor assembly also includes a clamp element configured to clamp the spinal fixation element against the top surface of the seat element. The bone anchor assembly may include a separate securing element. The bone anchor shaft may include a breakaway portion disposed at a proximal end of the shaft and configured to separate from the shaft.

The method also includes inserting the bone anchor into a patient vertebra at a location displaced from the spinal fixation element. Inserting the bone anchor may include receiving auditory and or tactile feedback regarding the position of the seat element relative to the spinal fixation element. The method further includes rotating the seat element until a direction of the maximum seat distance is oriented toward the spinal fixation element. The method also includes seating the spinal fixation element on the top surface of the seat element by reducing a separation between the spinal fixation element and a central axis of the bone anchor. The method further includes inserting the clamp element along the extension portion of the bone anchor shaft and positioning the clamp element in contact with the spinal fixation element. According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the method may also include inserting and positioning the securing element to secure the spinal fixation element between the clamp element and the seat element. The method may further include separating the breakaway portion of the bone shaft and removing it from the patient.

In accordance with another aspect a bone anchor assembly is provided for coupling a previously inserted first spinal fixation element and connected bone anchors with a previously inserted second spinal fixation element. The method includes providing a bone anchor assembly. The bone anchor assembly includes a bone anchor. The bone anchor includes a shaft and a seat element. The shaft has an engagement portion for engaging bone disposed at a distal end of the shaft an extension portion disposed at a proximal end of the shaft and a central axis extending through the engagement portion of the shaft and the extension portion of the shaft. The seat element is disposed between the engagement portion of the shaft and the extension portion of the shaft. The seat element has a profile toward the proximal end of the shaft. The seat element also has a top surface configured to seat a previously inserted spinal fixation element and facing the proximal end of the shaft. The first seat distance is a radial distance between the central axis of the bone anchor shaft and an outer edge of the top surface of the seat element measured in a first direction. The bone anchor assembly also includes a double clamp element configured to clamp the spinal fixation element against the top surface of the seat element and configured to simultaneously clamp a different spinal fixation element against an opposite side of a top surface of the seat element. The bone anchor assembly may include a separate securing element. The bone anchor shaft may include a breakaway portion disposed at a proximal end of the shaft and configured to separate from the shaft.

The method also includes inserting the bone anchor into a patient vertebra at a location adjacent to the first spinal fixation element and the second spinal fixation element. Inserting the bone anchor may include receiving auditory and or tactile feedback regarding the position of the seat element relative to the first spinal fixation element and or the second spinal fixation element. The method further includes seating the first spinal fixation element on the top surface of the seat element by reducing a separation between the first spinal fixation element and a central axis of the bone anchor. The method also includes seating the second spinal fixation element on the top surface of the seat element opposite the first spinal fixation element by reducing a separation between the second spinal fixation element and a central axis of the bone anchor. The method further includes inserting the double clamp element along the extension portion of the bone anchor shaft and positioning the double clamp element to clamp the first spinal fixation element and the second spinal fixation element against the seat element. According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the method may also include inserting and positioning the securing element to secure the first spinal fixation element and the second spinal fixation element between the double clamp element and the seat element. The first spinal fixation element and the second spinal fixation element may be different types of spinal fixation elements. The first spinal fixation element may be substantially non parallel with respect to the second spinal fixation element. The method may further include separating the breakaway portion of the bone anchor shaft and removing it from the patient.

Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall understanding of the principles of the structure function manufacture and use of the devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those skilled in the art will understand that the devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the accompanying drawings are non limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the present invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

Exemplary embodiments described herein concern a bone anchor assembly for connecting an offset bone anchor such as a pedicle bone screw or an anchor bolt with a previously inserted spinal fixation element and methods of use. Exemplary embodiments of a bone anchor assembly are particularly suited for use in a rod first type spinal surgical technique in which a bone anchor that is inserted into a patient vertebra may be separated from a elongate spinal fixation element SFE by a separation distance. Exemplary embodiments of a bone anchor assembly are sized and dimensioned for insertion through a minimally invasive surgical access port such as a cannula. Additionally exemplary embodiments of a bone anchor assembly are configured for use in a rod first type surgical technique in which a spinal fixation element is inserted and positioned in a patient before insertion of bone anchors and in which the bone anchors are positioned adjacent to the spinal fixation element and not beneath the spinal fixation element.

As described herein an offset bone anchor is a bone anchor that is inserted into a patient vertebra and anchored in bone after insertion of a spinal fixation element hereinafter SFE and that is separated from the previously inserted SFE by a separation distance. This separation distance is not an offset distance between a central axis of the SFE and a central axis of a bone anchor shaft but is a separation distance measuring a gap distance between an outer surface of an extension portion of the bone anchor shaft and a closest point on the spinal fixation element. Ideally exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector can couple an SFE and a bone anchor separated by a gap separation distance of at least 2 to 5 mm. An embodiment of a spanning connector may be required to couple a SFE and a bone anchor separated by a gap separation distance of as large as about 10 mm in the case of a patient with a spinal deformity.

The bone anchor also includes a seat element that is disposed between the engagement portion and the extension portion of the shaft. The seat element has a profile flared in the direction of the proximal end of the shaft . A flared profile of the seat element is illustrated by the side view of the bone anchor assembly depicted in and the front view of the bone anchor assembly depicted in . The seat element has a top surface configured to seat the previously inserted SFE and facing the proximal end of the shaft . The top surface of the seat element has a first distance Rmeasured from the central axis of the bone anchor to an outer edge of the top surface of the seat element in a first direction. The seat element may be affixed to the bone anchor shaft or the seat element may be integral with the bone anchor shaft . Alternatively the seat element may be rotatably coupled with the bone anchor shaft and may include a seat lock for fixing the position of the seat element relative to the bone anchor shaft .

According to other aspects of the invention an exemplary seat element may be pivotable rotatable or conformable to adapt to seat a spinal fixation element with an out of plane orientation relative to the shaft . Embodiments of an adaptable seat element are discussed in detail in the related application DUQ 033 entitled Adaptable Clamping Mechanism for Coupling a Spinal Fixation Element with a Bone Anchor application Ser. No. 11 897 640 filed on Aug. 31 2007.

The bone anchor may be inserted by any appropriate method ideally a minimally invasive method including using a cannula k wire etc. Techniques and instruments for minimally invasive insertion of a bone anchor and a connecting element are discussed in detail in the related applications application DUQ 034 entitled Minimally Invasive Guide System application Ser. No. 11 897 642 filed on Aug. 31 2007 and DUQ 037 entitled Method and System for Securing a Rod to a Bone Anchor with a Connector now U.S. Pat. No. 8 025 682 filed on Aug. 31 2007.

A radial distance between the outer surface of the shaft and the closest point of the SFE is the gap separation distance L between the bone anchor and the SFE . To properly seat a round SFE with a SFE radius Rseparated from the shaft of the bone anchor by a separation distance L the first seat distance R which is the distance between the central axis of the shaft and an outer edge of the top surface of the seat element should be about equal to or greater than the sum of the half a width of the SFE R which is the radius of the SFE for a SFE with a round cross section the separation distance L and an outer radius Rof the shaft measured at distance equal to half the height of the SFE in this case R above the top surface of the seat element . Ideally the exemplary bone anchor assembly should span a separation distance of at least 2 mm. Thus ideally the first distance Rof the top surface of the seat element should be greater than or about equal to the sum of the SFE half width R 2 mm and the bone anchor shaft radius R. A discussion of seating SFEs with non circular cross sections is presented below in the discussion of .

According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the seat element may be configured to provide tactile and or auditory feedback to a surgeon regarding the relative position of the SFE and the seat element during insertion of the bone anchor if the bone anchor is implanted sufficiently close to the SFE such that the seat element and the SFE contact each other during insertion. As the bone anchor is inserted in the bone the seat element comes into contact with the SFE . The flared profile of the seat element allows the seat element to slide past the SFE without becoming caught on the SFE . Additionally contact with the flared profile of the seat element causes the SFE to be displaced away from the central axis of the shaft as the bone anchor is inserted deeper. When the bone anchor is inserted sufficiently deep that the SFE lies above the top surface of the seat element the displaced SFE suddenly snaps back to its original undisplaced position. The sudden change in SFE position and the sudden change in force on the bone anchor may be felt by a surgeon through instruments connected to the bone anchor and or heard. After the SFE snaps into place it is properly seated on the seat element .

According to other aspects of an exemplary embodiment the top surface of the seat element may not be circular. The first distance Rmay be a maximum distance and may be larger than a distance measured between the central axis of the bone anchor shaft and an outer edge of the top surface of the seat element in a different direction. The seat element may have a maximum seat distance in more than one direction. If the top surface of the seat element is not circular then a particular rotational orientation of the seat element relative to the SFE may be necessary for proper seating of the SFE . The distance Rof the top surface of the seat element should be directed toward the SFE . The method for adjusting the rotational orientation of the seat element depends on the structure of the bone anchor . If the seat element is rotatably coupled with the shaft then the seat element may be rotated to the proper orientation while the shaft is stationary. If the seat element is fixed to the shaft or integral with the shaft then the bone anchor shaft must be rotated to change the orientation of the seat element . This may result in the seat element being slightly higher or slightly lower than ideal because rotation to change the orientation of the seat element also changes an insertion depth for the bone anchor . If the top surface of the seat element is substantially non circular the seat element may not provide feedback to a surgeon in the manner discussed in the previous paragraph. The seat element may only make intermittent contact with the SFE during insertion if the seat element is affixed to the shaft or the SFE may never snap into position if the seat element is free to rotate with respect to the shaft .

After the SFE is seated on the seat element the clamp element is inserted along the shaft of the bone anchor and positioned in contact with the SFE . The clamp element may incorporate a securing element or alternately a separate securing element such as a nut may be inserted along the shaft and used to exert force on the clamping element to secure the SFE between the clamp element and the seat element . The clamp element the securing element and the bone anchor may all be sized dimensioned and configured for insertion into a patient through a minimally invasive surgical port such as a cannula. The extension portion of the shaft may be sized and dimensioned to guide insertion of portions of the bone anchor assembly into the patient. The extension portion of the shaft may be include of a breakaway portion disposed at a proximal end of the shaft and a machine threaded portion . The securing element may engage the threads in the machine threaded portion of the shaft to secure the SFE . The breakaway portion is designed to separate from the rest of the bone anchor after the SFE is secured to the bone anchor assembly . The breakaway portion may be configured to separate from the rest of the bone anchor when the securing element is sufficiently tightened.

As discussed above with respect to B and C to properly seat a round SFE with a SFE distance Rseparated from the shaft of the bone anchor by a separation distance L the first distance Rof the top surface of the seat element should be about equal to or greater than the sum of the distance of the SFE R the separation distance L and an outer radius Rof the shaft measured at distance equal to Rabove the top surface of the seat element . For an SFE that is not round the above description must be modified. The modification will be described with respect to SFE . To properly seat a SFE that is not necessarily circular for example elliptical SFE separated from a shaft of a bone anchor by a separation distance L the first distance Rof the top surface of the seat element should be about equal to or greater than the sum of the half the width of the SFE half of which is measured at a distance of half the height of the SFE half of above the top surface of the seat element . Ideally the exemplary bone anchor assembly should span a separation distance of at least 2 mm. Thus ideally the first distance Rof the top surface of the seat element should be greater than or about equal to the sum of half the width of the SFE half of the bone anchor shaft radius Rand 2 mm.

More than one bone anchor may be out of line with respect to some other bone anchors. Bone anchors may be inserted along one line in line then jog to another parallel line out of line depending on patient anatomy and other factors affecting bone anchor placement. illustrates a top view of an exemplary embodiment of a bone anchor assembly in use coupling out of line bone anchors and a previously inserted out of line SFE with in line bone anchors and an in line SFE . The bone anchor assembly seats a proximal end of the in line SFE on one portion of the seat element and seats a proximal end of the out of line SFE on an opposite portion of the seat element in this instance proximal refers to position relative to the bone anchor .

As illustrated in out of line bone anchors implanted adjacent to an out of line SFE may not be parallel to in line bone anchors and an in line SFE . Additionally there may not be a suitable bone anchor site evenly spaced between the proximal end of the in line SFE and the proximal end of the out of line SFE . An exemplary bone anchor assembly with the asymmetric seat element also see for a perspective view of the asymmetric seat element may be placed at suitable bone anchor site closer to the out of line SFE . The bone anchor assembly seats the in line SFE on a first portion of the seat element that extends toward the in line SFE and seats the out of line SFE on an opposite portion of the seat element coupling the out of line SFE with the in line SFE .

Another embodiment of the bone anchor assembly may use a double clamp element that is a combination clamp element that couples different types of spinal fixation elements to a bone anchor as illustrated in . The bone anchor assembly includes a bone anchor and a combination rod cable clamp element for clamping a cable to a top surface of the seat element and clamping a rod to an opposite portion of the top surface of the seat element. The rod may be displaced from the bone anchor . The cable may be surrounded by a spacing sleeve over portions of the cable the cable and the spacing sleeve forming a dynamic spinal rod. The combination rod cable clamp element may include a set screw for further securing the cable . Although the anchor assembly depicts a combination rod cable clamp element one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that embodiments including double clamp elements that are combination clamp elements that couple many different types of spinal fixation elements to a bone anchor fall within the scope of the present invention.

A bone anchor assembly with a double clamp element or a combination clamp element may be used to couple a newly inserted spinal fixation element and a previously inserted spinal fixation element with a bone anchor. The newly inserted spinal fixation element and the previously inserted spinal fixation element may be of a similar type or may be of different types. The previously inserted spinal fixation element may be part of an existing system that had been implanted in a previous surgery. For example the dynamic spinal rod formed by the cable and spacing sleeve may have been a part of an existing spinal fixation system. The bone anchor assembly may form part of an extension or an add on to an existing system spinal fixation system. To add on to the existing spinal fixation element system a bone anchor at an end of the previously inserted spinal fixation element the cable and spacing sleeve may be removed and replaced with a bone anchor assembly including a double clamp element or a combination clamp element suitable to clamp both the previously inserted spinal fixation element the cable and spacing sleeve and the newly inserted spinal fixation element the rod .

The bone anchor is inserted into a patient vertebra at a location separated from the SFE step . As the bone anchor is inserted a surgeon may receive tactile and or auditory feedback regarding a position of the seat element relative to the SFE step . If the first distance Ris a maximum seat distance the seat element may be rotated until the maximum seat distance is oriented toward the SFE . Rotating the seat element may include rotating the seat element while holding the shaft of the bone anchor stationary step or rotating the seat element may include rotating the shaft of the bone anchor step . The SFE is seated on the top surface of the seat element from the side step . The clamp element is inserted along the extension portion of the shaft of the bone anchor and positioned in contact with the SFE step . The method may include inserting the securing element along the extension portion of the shaft of the bone anchor and tightening the securing element against the clamp element step . The method may also include separating a breakaway portion of the shaft from the shaft and removing the breakaway portion from the patient step .

The bone anchor is inserted into a patient vertebra at a location adjacent to a first SFE and a second SFE step . As the bone anchor is inserted a surgeon may receive tactile and or auditory feedback regarding a position of the seat element relative to the first SFE and or the SFE step . If the first distance Ris a maximum seat distance the seat element may be rotated until the maximum seat distance is oriented toward the first SFE or the second SFE . The first SFE is seated on the top surface of the seat element from the side step . The second SFE is seated on the top surface of the seat element opposite the first SFE step . The double clamp element is inserted along the extension portion of the shaft and positioned in contact with the first SFE and the second SFE to clamp the first SFE and the second SFE against the seat element step . A securing element may be inserted along the extension portion of the shaft and used to secure the first SFE and the second SFE between the double clamp element and the seat element step . The method may also include separating the breakaway portion of the shaft from the shaft and removing the breakaway portion from the patient step .

While the figures depict exemplary embodiments of a bone anchor assembly for securing a SFE and methods of use one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that exemplary embodiments of a bone anchor assembly may couple with many different types of bone anchors including but not limited to bolts screw staples anchors hooks etc. Additionally exemplary embodiments of a bone anchor assembly may couple with many different types of spinal fixation elements including but not limited to plates PDS posterior dynamic stabilization devices cables spinal rods such as solid rods dynamic rods etc.

One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the invention based on the above described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited by what has been particularly shown and described except as indicated by the appended claims.

While the devices and methods of the present invention have been particularly shown and described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that various changes may be made in the form and details herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain many equivalents to the exemplary embodiments described specifically herein by using no more than routine experimentation. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the scope of the present invention and the appended claims.

