---

title: Distribution contents forming method, contents distributing method and apparatus, and code converting method
abstract: A script is scanned to detect character strings that match predetermined criteria. The detected character strings are sorted in order of their appearance frequency and are associated with substitute characters or character strings such that a character string having a greater appearance frequency than another character string is associated with substitute characters or character string having a same or smaller number of characters. The script is searched for a given character string, and the given character string is replaced with its associated substitute characters or character strings. The content is unidirectionally distributed whereby the plurality of character strings is not distributed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07653752&OS=07653752&RS=07653752
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 07653752
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070925
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 786 878 filed on Jul. 19 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 308 508 issued Dec. 11 2007 which is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT JP00 04644 filed Jul. 12 2000 which claims priority from Japanese Application Publication No. JP 11 198483 filed Jul. 13 1999 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates to a digital data distributing technique in a satellite digital broadcast communication of multimedia content or the like and more particularly to a technique for distributing digital data constructed by commands of a computer language.

In more detail the invention relates to a digital data distributing technique for distributing digital data in a markup language for example XML eXtensible Markup Language format using a tag which can be arbitrarily defined and more particularly to digital data distribution for improving a transmitting efficiency of distribution content comprising text data such as what is called a script or the like and an executing efficiency on the reception side.

In a technical field of a broadcast digitization of data is rapidly being promoted. A digital signal has a more excellent stability and a higher data compression ratio than those of an analog signal. According to the digital signal a larger number of channels than that of the analog signal can be assured in a predetermined band irrespective of a cable a ground wave and a satellite wave. Although the information in a document an audio sound and a video image are each quite different in the conventional information transmission by digitizing broadcast data they can be transmitted without being separated.

For example in case of digital data by transmitting various system information such as EPG Electric Program Guide or the like together with video information and audio information services to the user viewer can be improved the EPG incorporates a function for a recording reservation or the like to a VTR in addition to presenting information such as broadcast schedule program names and the like of broadcast programs .

Data in a digital format has a high affinity with information equipment such as a general computer system other than a television. For example a tuner card for a satellite broadcast is attached to the general computer system received EPG data is analyzed in the computer a program table is displayed as a window on a computer display and a program switching a recording reservation or the like can be realized by the operation of a mouse cursor. Naturally broadcast data can be also digitally recorded as it is onto a hard disk built in the computer.

By transmitting data such as video image audio sound and the like other than the broadcast program main body by using a band interactive performance of the broadcast program can be raised. For example in case of a broadcast program such that alternative quiz is provided by transmitting answers together with the video audio data on the satellite television broadcast receiver namely viewer side an answer menu button is prepared on the computer display and marking can be performed in response to the answering operation by a pointing device such as a mouse cursor or the like.

If the interactive performance is further raised not only a home use television receiver merely deals with video content but also it can be expected that it jumps as an information control tower. For example the television receiver can become an Internet terminal or an electronic commerce terminal.

In Japan the standardizing work regarding digital satellite data broadcast has been being progressed mainly by the ARIB Association of Radio Industries and Businesses . According to it in the digital satellite data broadcast in addition to the audio video data AV data constructing the satellite broadcast program main body digital transmission data accompanied by the broadcast program is distributed in parallel therewith. More specifically the program is propagated as a broadcast wave in a format of a transport stream which will be explained below constructed by multiplexing the AV data compressed by a predetermined compression system such as an MPEG Motion Picture Experts Group 2 or the like and the digital transmission data.

An example of broadcast program information which is multiplexed to the digital transmission data is the foregoing EPG Electric Program Guide electric program information . The broadcast program information can include particular information regarding the broadcast program main body such as title and date of the broadcast program main body casting of the program and the like. The kind of data included in the broadcast program information and its data structure are systematized to a certain extent in accordance with the service content which are provided by the program main body. For example there are information regarding a menu and ingredients in a cooking program a vote situation which is successively updated in an election spot news program a personal record regarding the batting or pitching of each player and a place of a team in a professional baseball relay and the like.

On the digital satellite data broadcast receiving system hereinafter simply referred to as receiving system side the broadcast program information is displayed by using a partial area of a display screen for displaying and outputting the broadcast program main body. The receiving system is usually constructed by a receiver set top box STB for receiving station selecting and decoding the broadcast wave and a television for displaying and outputting it and installed to an ordinary home.

A structure of content hereinafter referred to as distribution content which is distributed as digital transmission data will now be described with reference to .

As shown in the distribution content is constructed by various kinds of monomedia data such as still image motion image audio sound and the like in addition to text data and a display output control program hereinafter also referred to as a multimedia encoding application which integratedly deals with those monomedia data that is as multimedia and specifies a state of the broadcast program information. Reference link information for each monomedia data can be built in the display output control program.

In the foregoing standardizing work of the digital satellite data broadcast by the ARIB the use of an MHEG Multimedia and Hypermedia Expert Group has initially been examined as a format of describing the multimedia encoding application as distribution content. The MHEG is a kind of description language which defines data attributes and presumes an application such that multimedia content is displayed on the television and the viewer extracts desired information in a video on demand VOD or digital television broadcast. Like a Japanese CS digital broadcast SKYPerfecTV there is also a case where the MHEG 5 has already been used.

However according to the MHEG an encoding space is fixed and it lacks expandability. That is since it has to be described by using only the encoding space which has unconditionally been fixed for example even if one function API Application Programming Interface or the like is changed a considerable correcting work is needed. According to the MHEG a general recognition degree is low the data content described by the MHEG is not so frequently circulated and an affinity with a general computer is relatively low in terms of this meaning.

In the ARIB mentioned before therefore the standardizing work of a data broadcast based on an XML extended Markup Language is being examined in place of the MHEG.

According to the XML since a tag is arbitrarily defined that is there is no limitation in a method of describing attributes points that a degree of freedom is high an affinity with a general computer or Internet is high and the like can be mentioned as points which are more advantageous than those of the MHEG. A work to set the XML to a description language of the Internet of the next generation is also being progressed.

In case of using the XML as a standard language of the digital satellite broadcast information of the data for digital broadcast can be exchanged among various kinds of information equipment such as computer television telephone and the like. According to the XML since the attributes of the tag can be arbitrarily defined it is stronger against the data processes as compared with the HTML specified to a layout designation. Therefore the application of the XML to each field including an electronic commerce is also rapidly progressing.

A point that the arbitrary setting of the tag in an XML document means in other words that it is an object that a character string written in the document is handled as meaningful data. That is by the definition of the tag the tag data divided by each tag can be expressed as data having a meaning other than a mere display object. Further by defining a structure of the tag the XML document or the data in the document can be structured and described.

As already mentioned above in the ARIB the standardization of the digital satellite data broadcast is being progressed on the basis of the XML. More specifically the work is separately executed with respect to basic XML and advanced XML as an expanded edition of the basic XML. According to the basic XML it is specified that a presentation format which expresses an XML instance onto the display is described by using a tag.

On the other hand the advanced XML enables attribute information of the XML instance to be added. A rule defining a describing method of the attribute information that is grammar of the tag is a regulation called DTD Document Type Definition . In the basic XML the attribute information which is defined by the tag is fixed and the DTD is unnecessary. On the other hand in the advanced XML the DTD can be arbitrarily defined. For example the DTD can be unconditionally defined every field. The attribute information of the tag which is used here includes information that is necessary in the case where when different types of apparatuses such as television receiver and computer are connected each apparatus mutually understands the meaning of the content and processes the content and the like.

There is also a case where the XML instance itself does not incorporate style information regarding an expressing format. In this case an expressing method of the XML instance is described by style sheet as a document file different from the DTD.

The style sheet is a document file for converting for example the XML instance into a format to display and output it onto the display screen or converting into a print output format to a printer . The style sheet for the XML instance can be described by using particularly a language in an XSL extensible Stylesheet Language format a CSS Cascade Stylesheet format or an XSLT XSL Transformation format as a derivative standard thereof. In dependence on the description of the style sheet the same DTD content can be expressed by exactly another format by changing font or its size and color and the like. The style sheet is transmitted as a file different from the DTD.

Besides the style sheet with respect to the multimedia content comprising each monomedia such as audio sound still image motion image and the like in the XML instance or style sheet the operation can be also specified by a language called a script different from the XML or XSL. Although such a script is described by a script language such as JavaScript ECMAScript Jscript or the like according to the standard of the XML XSL or the like fundamentally it is specified that the script is described by ECMAScript ECMAScript is a script language standardized by European Computer Manufactures Association ECMA .

The distribution content comprising the XML document is accompanied with for example the DTD document and style sheet besides the XML document. However there is also a case where the DTD document is not included in the XML document or the style sheet is sent at a timing different from that of the distribution of the XML document. The description language of the distribution content is not always limited to the XML but can also use another markup language format such as SGML Standard Generalized Markup Language HTML or the like. For example if the XML document is applied to the TV broadcast and operates together with another real time type data and presentation is performed there is also a case where monomedia position information in a broadcast data module called URI Uniform Resource Identifier of various monomedia content is also built in the XML document main body.

On the receiving system side the received XML instance is parsing processed by a syntax analyzing program called XML Parser . That is the XML parser analyzes structures of the DTD document and XML instance and outputs a document object. The document object is a structured document whose tree structure has been formed in accordance with the tags in the original XML document. According to the display function of the receiving system by interpreting the structure of the document a layout or the like on the screen is determined and can be display outputted to the display.

In case of distributing digital data by transmitting means such as broadcast network communication or the like there is a method whereby the data content such as XML document script or the like is data compressed from the original text format to a description of a binary binary display format and transmitted.

However since a file structure of the binary format differs depending on a computer system or software it can become an obstacle of exchange of the content between an application and a terminal. As an upstream line of the digital satellite data broadcast the Internet which is connected on the basis of a TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol is presumed. According to this Internet there are historical circumstances such that by using a content distribution in a text format an environment which does not depend on the kind of terminal and the software has been established.

In the digital satellite data broadcast therefore a method of distributing the data content as they are in the text format has been examined in consideration of the affinity with the Internet and the compatibility of the content between platforms.

A size of text data as distribution content becomes a problem here. This is because a load of a transmission path increases and a transmitting efficiency decreases in proportion to the data size.

For example with the progress of the realization of a high function or the realization of an advanced additional value of the XML document a document size of the script which specifies the expressing format and operation increases. In future it is presumed that the data size of script will be larger than that of the XML document main body as a display target itself. An influence which is exerted on a load of a finite band by the distribution of the increased script is large.

Also in a receiving apparatus for receiving the distribution content it is necessary to prepare a buffer memory of a large capacity in order to receive a large amount of data causing an increase in costs. Since time that is required for loading into the memory also becomes long the executing efficiency deteriorates.

In case of using a general computer system as a receiving system usually since the memory of a large capacity has been installed as a standard memory the problem on the memory load is relatively small. On the other hand in case of a dedicated satellite broadcast receiver such as a set top box since a size of standard memory is generally small the distribution content of a large capacity is fatal.

It is an object of the invention to provide an excellent data distributing technique which can improve transmitting efficiency of a distribution of content comprising text data.

Another object of the invention is to provide an excellent data distributing technique which can improve execution efficiency in a receiving apparatus for receiving distribution content comprising text data and reduce a memory load.

The invention is made in consideration of the above problems and according to the first aspect of the invention there is provided a method of forming distribution content comprising 

searching the inside of a script comprising a plurality of characters or character strings formed as one of modules constructing the distribution content and extracting the characters or character string having high redundancy and

replacing the characters or character string having high redundancy extracted from the script with characters or character string having low redundancy. The characters or character string having high redundancy corresponds to for example a function name a variable name or the like.

The distribution content forming method according to the first aspect of the invention can further include a step of temporarily storing the distribution content obtained after the replacement before distributing the distribution content.

In the step replacing the characters or character string having high redundancy with the characters or character string having low redundancy the use of a system reserved word as a character string having low redundancy can be also eliminated. This is because if up to the system reserved word is extracted and replaced with other characters or character string it is accompanied with a change in meaning which the original script inherently has that is a change in operation content which are specified by the script and it is improper to permit such a replacement.

The distribution content forming method can further include the steps of extracting a sentence comprising characters or character string which is not concerned with processes which are executed on the reception side of the distribution content and deleting the extracted sentence. The sentence comprising characters or character string which is not concerned with the processes here corresponds to for example a comment sentence divided by a predetermined delimiter.

The distribution content forming method can further include a step of storing an appearance frequency in the script with respect to each of the characters or character string extracted by the step of extracting the characters or character string of the high redundancy and in the step of replacing the characters or character string of the high redundancy with the characters or character string of the low redundancy the characters or character string having a large appearance frequency can be also replaced with the characters or character string whose number of characters is small. Since the characters or character string of the large appearance frequency is expressed by the characters or character string whose number of characters is small a data compressing effect is raised.

According to the second aspect of the invention there is provided a content distributing method or apparatus for distributing content constructed by a plurality of data modules comprising 

a step or means for searching the inside of the data module described in a script language format constructed by a plurality of characters or character strings and extracting the characters or character string having high redundancy 

a step or means for replacing the characters or character string of the high redundancy extracted in a script with the characters or character string having low redundancy 

a step or means for distributing the stored data module. The characters or character string of the high redundancy here corresponds to for example a function name or a variable name.

In the step or means for replacing the characters or character string of the high redundancy with the characters or character string of the low redundancy the use of a system reserved word as a character string of the low redundancy can be also eliminated. This is because if even the system reserved word is extracted and replaced with other characters or character string it is accompanied with a change in meaning which the original script inherently has that is a change in operation content which are specified by the script and it is improper to permit such a replacement.

The content distributing method or apparatus according to the second aspect of the invention can further include a step or means for extracting a sentence constructed by the characters or a character string which is not concerned with processes which are executed on the reception side of the distribution content and a step or means for deleting the extracted sentence. The sentence constructed by the characters or a character string which is not concerned with the processes here corresponds to a comment sentence divided by a predetermined delimiter.

The content distributing method or apparatus according to the second aspect of the invention can further include a step or means for storing an appearance frequency in the script with respect to each of the characters or character string extracted in the step of extracting the characters or character string of the high redundancy and in the step or means for replacing the characters or character string of the high redundancy with the characters or character string of the low redundancy the characters or character string of the large appearance frequency can be also replaced with the characters or character string whose number of characters is small. Since the characters or character string of the large appearance frequency is expressed with the characters or character string whose number of characters is small a data compressing effect is raised.

According to the third aspect of the invention there is provided a method of converting a source code constructed by a plurality of characters or character strings having a meaning regarding computer processes comprising 

searching the inside of the source code and extracting characters or character string having high redundancy and

replacing the extracted characters or character string of the high redundancy with characters or character string having low redundancy. The character string of the high redundancy here corresponds to for example a function name or a variable name.

In the code converting method according to the third aspect of the invention in the step of replacing the characters or character string of the high redundancy with the characters or character string of the low redundancy the use of a system reserved word as a character string of the low redundancy can be also eliminated. This is because if even the system reserved word is extracted and replaced with other characters or character string it is accompanied with a change in meaning which the original script inherently has that is a change in operation content which are specified by a script and it is improper to permit such a replacement.

The code converting method according to the third aspect of the invention can further include the steps of extracting a sentence constructed by characters or a character string which is not concerned with the execution of the code in the source code and deleting the extracted sentence. The sentence constructed by the characters or character string which is not concerned with the execution of the code here corresponds to a comment sentence divided by a predetermined delimiter.

The code converting method according to the third aspect of the invention can further include a step or means for storing an appearance frequency in the script with respect to each of the characters or character string extracted in the step of extracting the characters or character string of the high redundancy and in the step or means for replacing the characters or character string of the high redundancy with the characters or character string of the low redundancy the characters or character string having a large appearance frequency can be also replaced with the characters or character string whose number of characters is small. Since the characters or character string of the large appearance frequency is expressed by the characters or character string whose number of characters is small a data compressing effect is raised.

In the digital satellite data broadcast the invention can be preferably applied to digital transmission data which is distributed together with a broadcast program particularly to a data file described in a text format in the transmission data.

The module constructing the digital transmission data comprises various kinds of monomedia data such as still image motion image audio sound and the like and a display output control program for integratedly treating with those monomedia data that is as multimedia and specifying a state of broadcast program information below such a program is also referred to as a multimedia encoding application .

Among the files in the module one of the files constructed by text format data is a display output control program and its content is described by a markup description language XML SGML HTML or the like in which data attributes are defined by a tag.

Another text format data included in the module is a script which specifies the operation of the various media data such as audio sound still image motion image and the like. The script can be described by a script language such as JavaScript ECMAScript JScript or the like according to the standard of XML XSL or the like it is fundamentally specified so as to describe it by ECMAScript .

The display output control program itself described in the XML format or the like is a program in which the information itself which is screen displayed or print outputted is specified and since a change of the content of the text data is accompanied with a change in meaning of the data itself that is the operation specified by the program it is improper to permit such a change.

On the other hand in case of the script the function name or variable name included in the code the comment sentence or the like includes redundancy and it is fatal on a transmitting efficiency. The function name variable name or the like has inherently been named by a person who made the script for the purpose of convenience of improving the readability in the coding or debugging operation or in accordance with a personal favor and they have no relation with the operating function which is specified by the script itself. In other words those function name and variable name can be exchanged with other character string while maintaining the operating function of the script itself. The comment sentence has no relation with the execution of the script and can be also omitted.

The invention is made by paying attention to the redundancy incorporated by the script described in such a text format. In brief according to the invention a data size of the script is reduced by replacing the function name or variable name which exists in the script and comprises a relatively long character string with a shorter character string for example one alphabetical character . The data size is further reduced by deleting a comment sentence in the script.

The function name or variable name in the script has been named by the person who made the script for the purpose of convenience of keeping the readability by human eyes of each function or variable and is constructed by a relatively long character string having a meaning which a person can understand. Although the comment sentence is embedded into the source code in order to memorize the function of each portion for example a routine sentence or the like in the script the comment sentence itself does not contribute to the realization of the function of the script.

Although the function name or variable name constructed by the long character string and the comment sentence have a meaning up to a position of the debug there is no need to have a meaning which can be interpreted by the person after the debug. Particularly in case of applying them to unidirectional content distribution such as a satellite data broadcast there is no need to consider the reuse of the source code at the stage after the transmission. In other words even if the function name or variable name in the script is replaced with another short character string or it becomes difficult for the person to interpret the meaning and contents of the source code because of the deletion of the comment sentence there is hardly an adverse influence.

By applying the invention to the digital transmission data in the digital satellite data broadcast the size of transmission data can be reduced and a transmitting efficiency is improved upon distribution.

Since the size of reception data decreases in the broadcast server it is sufficient to merely prepare a reception memory of a relatively small capacity and it contributes to the reduction of costs. Since a length of character string of the function name or variable name in the script is minimized a size of function table or variable table which is allocated to the memory from an interpreter for executing the script can be reduced. Thus an overhead at the time when the function or variable is called decreases. That is an executing efficiency of the script is improved a capacity of the memory can be reduced so that the costs for the receiver can be reduced. The user of the receiver that is viewer can expect a system of a higher reacting speed owing to the improvement of the executing efficiency.

Further objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent by the more detailed description in conjunction with the embodiments of the invention which will be explained below and the drawings.

One or more broadcast servers exist on the ground. The satellite exists in the sky fairly over the earth. The receiver decoder corresponds to an ordinary home or the like. Actually a great number of receivers decoders exist on the ground. The data distribution that is the broadcast via the broadcast server and satellite is unidirectional communication.

In the digital data distribution data is transmitted at a transfer rate of 10 to 50 Mbps. The broadcast server multiplexes AV data constructing a broadcast program main body and digital transmission data including program information accompanied by the broadcast program and distributes. The AV data is ordinarily compressed in an MPEG Motion Picture Experts Group 2 format and transmitted.

A module comprising various monomedia data such as text still image motion image audio sound and the like and multimedia encoding application as a program for controlling display and output of those monomedia data has been data carrouseled and stored in the digital transmission data. The multimedia encoding application includes a DTD document which has been described in an XML eXtensible Markup Language language format and defines a type of document and a style sheet described in a language format such as XSL or the like however there is also a case where the DTD document and or the style sheet is not included in the distribution content . A script to specify the operation of the audio sound still image motion image or the like is included in each module.

Each receiver decoder and broadcast server can be also bidirectionally connected by a wide area network such as the Internet a dedicated line not shown or the like. In this case the Internet can be used as an upstream line directing from the receiver decoder to the broadcast server . For example a partially on demand broadcast service using the Internet can be also provided. In this case however it is desirable that they are connected by a high speed analog telephone line of 56 kbps or more high speed wireless communication of about 10 to 64 kbps ISDN Integrated Services digital Network of 128 kbps or a cable on the class of 5 to 30 Mbps.

The producing unit corresponds to the scene where content of the broadcast program is produced. The producing unit produces an XML document describing the contents of the data broadcast a script which specifies the operation of the XML document and information such as AV data or the like as a main body of the broadcast program and stores them into local storing devices and of a large capacity respectively.

The XML document and the script correspond to resources which will be explained below refer to of the resource of each module constructing the digital transmission data. The digital transmission data is subjected to an editing process such as coding debug or the like on an editing system . The substance of the editing system may be a general computer system called a workstation or personal computer.

The XML document is a markup language mentioned before using the tag which can be arbitrarily defined and a DTD document which defines a document type can be also annexed. The XML document in this case is a data main body for output in the receiver decoder . The script is a script which specifies the operation of the XML document and is a file in a text format described by a script language such as JavaScript ECMAScript JScript or the like according to the standard of XML XSL or the like it is fundamentally specified so as to describe the script by ECMAScript . The digital transmission data can also include multimedia content such as audio data still image data and the like besides the XML document and script.

Those distribution content produced and stored in the producing unit is transferred to the sending unit via for example an LAN Local Area Network established in the broadcast server .

In the sending unit sending data is packetized by each of a content transmitting system a baseband control system and an AV encoder and transferred to the transmitting unit . The AV encoder encoding compresses the AV data as a main body of the broadcast program by a compression system such as MPEG2 or the like.

In the transmitting unit the data of the content system is encoded in a multimedia encoding unit and transferred to a content transmitting system . A synthesizing unit synthesizes output data of each of the content transmitting system and an AV data transmitting system . In a modulating unit a synthesis signal is RF modulated and transmitted to the receiver decoder through an RF transmission path.

On the RF transmission path the RF signal is first transmitted to the satellite from a transmitting antenna installed in the broadcast server and subsequently received by a receiving antenna of the receiver decoder via the satellite .

The broadcast wave received by the antenna not shown is supplied to a tuner . The broadcast wave conforms with a specified format and includes for example program guide information EPG Electric Program Guide and the like. As a broadcast wave a wired broadcast wave or a ground wave other than the foregoing broadcast wave can be used and it is not particularly limited.

The tuner performs tuning of the broadcast wave of a predetermined channel that is station selection and outputs reception data to a subsequent demodulator in accordance with an instruction from the CPU . The demodulator demodulates the digitally modulated reception data. A construction of the tuner can be properly changed or expanded in accordance with whether the transmitted broadcast wave is an analog wave or a digital wave.

The demodulated digital data is transport stream constructed by multiplexing the AV data which was MPEG2 compressed and the digital transmission data. The former AV data is a video image and audio information constructing the broadcast program main body. The latter digital transmission data is data accompanied by the broadcast program main body and includes for example EPG Electric Program Guide . The digital transmission data will be explained in detail below. The transport stream is classified into what is called transport layer in an OSI open Systems Interconnection reference model.

A TS decoder interprets the transport stream separates it into the MPEG2 compressed AV data and the digital transmission data sends the former to an AV decoder and transmits the latter to the CPU via the bus . In the TS decoder a memory A for storing operation data can be also equipped for its own local

When the real time AV data compressed by the MPEG2 system is received from the TS decoder the AV decoder separates it into compression video data and compression audio data. The video data is subjected to an MPEG2 decompressing process thereby reproducing the original video signal. The audio data is PCM Pulse Code Modulation decoded and thereafter synthesized with an additional sound thereby forming a reproduction audio signal. In the AV decoder a memory A for storing operation data can be also equipped for its own local. The reproduction video signal is displayed and outputted onto a display via a multiplexer B. The reproduction audio signal is outputted to a speaker via a multiplexer A and generated as a sound.

A user interface control unit is a module for processing the input operation from the user and has for example operation buttons switches not shown for allowing the user to directly and manually operate and has a function for receiving a remote operation from a remote controller via an infrared ray IR or the like. The control unit can also include a display panel or an LED indicator not shown for displaying the current set content.

One of the operation buttons which the user interface control unit has or one of operation buttons which the remote controller has is allocated to a button for validating or invalidating a display output from an OSC display controller that is display output such as program information or the like based on the digital transmission data .

The CPU Central Processing Unit is a main controller for integratedly controlling the whole operation of the receiving system A. The CPU can execute processes of the digital transmission data which is transferred via the bus . The digital transmission data is described in the XML eXtensible Markup Language language format which will be explained below . The CPU can execute processing software which will be explained below such as XML parsing browsing display output or print output and the like for the XML document on a platform that is provided by the operating system OS .

An RAM Random Access Memory is a writable volatile memory which is used for loading an executing program code of the CPU or writing operation data of the executing program. An ROM Read Only Memory is a read only memory for permanently storing a self diagnosis and initializing program which is executed at the time of turn on of a power source of the receiving system A and storing microcodes for operation of the hardware.

A serial input output SIO controller is a peripheral controller for executing a serial data exchange with equipment out of the receiving system A. A high speed modem for example a transfer rate is equal to 56 kbps for modulating and demodulating transmission data on an analog telephone line is externally connected to a serial port which is prepared by the SIO controller . By PPP Point to Point Protocol connecting to a predetermined access point not shown by the high speed modem the receiving system A is connected to the Internet as a wide area network.

An IEEE1394 interface is a serial high speed interface which can transmit and receive data at a transfer rate of about tens of MBps. External equipment corresponding to IEEE1394 can be connected to the IEEE1394 port in a daisy chain or tree manner. For example a video camera a scanner not shown and the like can be mentioned as equipment corresponding to IEEE1394.

A hard disk drive HDD is an external storing device for storing the program data and the like in a file format of a predetermined format and usually has a relatively large capacity of about a few GB. The HDD is connected to the bus via a hard disk interface .

A card interface is a device for realizing bus protocol between a card type device inserted in a card slot and the bus . As an example of the card type device there is a PC card having a credit card size constructed as a cartridge type. The PC card conforms with the specification PC Card Standard specified by the PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card Interface Association and the JEIDA Japan Electronic Industry Development Association in cooperation with each other.

As an example of the PC card there is a memory card constructed by a non volatile erasable and rewritable memory chip such as an EEPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM or the like. If the receiving system A is cheaply constructed in a relatively small size there is a case where it is difficult on design to install the HDD of a large capacity and a large volume. In such a case it is presumed that it is preferable to apply a detachable and portable memory card to the system A. However the detachable memory is not limited to a form factor of the PC card but may be also what is called Memory Stick trademark .

The display controller is a dedicated controller for controlling a display output of broadcast program information or the like based on the digital transmission data.

In the digital satellite data receiving system A the CPU controls the station selecting operation of the tuner and performs a display control of the program information and the like in accordance with commands inputted from the user via the user interface control unit . That is the CPU processes the data for digital broadcast transferred from the TS decoder converts into data for display and supplies it to the display controller . The display controller generates an image signal of the program information on the basis of the display data and supplies to the multiplexer B. The CPU also processes the audio data included in the data for digital broadcast and supplies it to the multiplexer A via the bus . The multiplexers A and B multiplex the display data and audio data supplied from the CPU to the video data and audio data as a broadcast program main body that is outputted from the AV decoder and externally output to the display and speaker respectively. Processes of the data for digital broadcast will be described in detail below.

The digital tuner card comprises the tuner demodulator TS decoder AV decoder RAMs A and A and multiplexers A and B. A construction and functions of the system are almost the same as those of the hardware block having the same reference numerals shown in . The digital satellite broadcast tuner card is connected to a system bus PCI bus in the computer system via a bus interface PCI interface shown .

The broadcast wave received from the antenna not shown is station selected by the tuner and demodulated by the demodulator . The TS decoder interprets the transport stream and separates it into the MPEG2 compressed AV data and the digital transmission data. The AV data is supplied to the AV decoder processed in a manner similar to that mentioned above and externally outputted to the display speaker or the like. The digital transmission data is transferred to the computer system side via the PCI interface and processed by the CPU in the system which will be explained below .

On the other hand the general computer system includes a printed circuit board not shown on which main circuit components as well as the CPU which will be explained below are mounted. The board is also called mother board . The foregoing tuner card is provided in a form of for example adapter card and inserted into a bus slot not shown arranged on the mother board.

The tuner card is not limited to the form of the adapter card but is provided in a form of a PC card which conforms with the specification set by the PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association JEIDA Japan Electronic Industry Development Association and inserted into the PC card slot which will be explained below and is also assembled in the system construction of the computer system .

The CPU is a main controller for integratedly controlling the whole operation of the computer system . The CPU according to this example can execute various software programs which will be explained below for XML content processes such as XML parsing XSL processing browsing and the like on the platform that is provided by the operating system OS .

A processor bus connected directly to an external pin of the CPU is mutually connected to the system bus via a bus bridge .

The bus bridge in the embodiment includes a memory controller for controlling a memory access to the RAM in addition to a data buffer for absorbing a speed difference between the processor bus and the system bus .

The RAM Random Access Memory is a writable volatile memory which is used for loading executing program codes of the CPU and writing operation data of the executing program. Usually it is constructed by a plurality of DRAM dynamic RAM chips.

The system bus is a common signal transmission path including an address bus a data bus a control bus and the like. For example a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect bus corresponds to it. Various peripheral equipment which conform with the PCI interface specification are mutually connected onto the system bus . As an example of the peripheral equipment there is the digital satellite broadcast tuner card mentioned above. A unique I O address or memory address has been allocated to each peripheral equipment on the bus . The CPU more strictly speaking the program which is executed by the CPU can realize the transfer of data and commands to the desired peripheral equipment by designating the I O address or memory address .

The ROM Read Only Memory is a read only memory for permanently storing a self diagnosis program POST which is executed upon turn on of a power source of the computer system and a basic input output system BIOS for hardware operation. The ROM can be constructed by for example an EEPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM which can perform the electrical erasing and rewriting operation.

The serial input output SIO controller is a peripheral controller for serially exchanging data with external equipment of the computer system . The high speed modem for example transfer rate is equal to 56 kbps for modulating and demodulating transmission data on an analog telephone line is externally connected to a serial port which is prepared by the SIO controller . The computer system that is receiving system B is connected to the Internet by PPP Point to Point Protocol connecting to a predetermined access point not shown by the high speed modem .

The IEEE1394 interface is a serial high speed interface which can transmit and receive data at about tens of MBps. External equipment corresponding to IEEE1394 can be connected to the IEEE1394 port in a daisy chain or tree manner. For example the video camera scanner not shown and the like can be mentioned as equipment corresponding to IEEE1394.

The hard disk drive HDD is an external storing device for storing the programs data and the like in a file format of a predetermined format and usually has a relatively large capacity of about a few GB. The HDD is connected to the system bus via the hard disk interface . As an interface standard for connecting the hard disk drive to the computer system for example there is IDE Integrated Drive Electronics SCSI Small Computer System Interface or the like.

A keyboard mouse controller KMC is a dedicated controller for processing a user input from a keyboard a mouse or the like. The KMC issues an interrupting request to the CPU in response to a scan code input from the keyboard or the detection of a coordinate instruction input from the mouse . In the embodiment in addition to the ordinary command input to the computer system the input operation such as selection of the channel or the like to the receiving system B can be also performed through the keyboard or mouse .

One of function keys which the keyboard has or one of menu buttons arranged on the display has been allocated to a button for operating the validation or invalidation of the display output that is display output of the program information or the like based on the digital transmission data from a video controller .

The card interface is a device for realizing a bus protocol between the bus and the card type device inserted into the card slot . As an example of the card type device there is a PC card having a credit card size constructed in a cartridge type. The PC card conforms with the specification PC Card Standard set by the PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card Interface Association and the JEIDA Japan Electronic Industry Development Association in cooperation with each other.

As an example of the PC card there is a memory card constructed by a non volatile erasable and rewritable memory chip such as an EEPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM or the like. If the digital satellite broadcast receiving system B is cheaply constructed in a relatively small size there is a case where it is difficult on design to install the HDD having a large capacity and a large volume. In such a case it is presumed that it is preferable to apply a detachable and portable memory card to the receiving system B. The detachable memory is not limited to a form factor of the PC card but may be also what is called Memory Stick trademark .

The video controller is a dedicated controller for controlling a screen display in accordance with a draw command from the CPU and has a frame memory VRAM for temporarily storing draw information. To preferably embody the present invention it is desirable that the video controller has drawing ability for example SVGA Super video Graphics Array or XGA extended Graphics Array over a VGA Video Graphic Array .

In the digital satellite broadcast receiving system B the CPU controls the station selecting operation of the tuner in accordance with a command inputted from the user via the keyboard or mouse and performs a display control of the program information and the like. That is the CPU processes the digital broadcast data supplied from the TS decoder converts it into the display data and supplies to the video controller . The video controller forms an image signal of the program information on the basis of the display data and supplies it to the multiplexer B. The CPU also processes the audio data included in the digital broadcast data and supplies it to the multiplexer A via the bus . The multiplexers A and B multiplex the display data and audio data supplied from the CPU to the video data and audio data as a broadcast program main body that is outputted from the AV decoder and externally output to the display and speaker respectively. The processes of the digital broadcast data will be described in detail below.

To construct the satellite digital data receiving system many electric circuits and the like besides the component elements shown in are necessary. However since they are well known to those in the ordinary skill in the art and do not construct the essence of the present invention they are omitted in the specification. It should be noted that to avoid complicated connection of the drawings only a part of the connections between the hardware blocks in the diagrams is illustrated.

For example although not shown in the receiving system can also have an external storing device such as FDD Floppy Disc Drive CD ROM drive or MO drive in which a portable recording media such as FD Floppy Disc trademark CD ROM MO Magneto Optical disc or the like is inserted and a data access can be performed.

A hardware control layer as a bottom layer has an object to absorb a difference of the hardware from upper software such as an operating system OS or the like and executes the direct input output operation to each hardware and processes corresponding to a hardware interruption.

The hardware control layer is provided to the digital satellite broadcast receiving system for example in a form such as BIOS Basic Input Output System which has permanently stored in the ROM or device driver installed in the HDD .

The operating system OS is basic software for integratedly managing the hardware and software in the satellite broadcast receiving system . The OS includes subsystems such as file manager for managing the recording of files on the HDD memory manager for managing a memory space resource manager for managing distribution of system resources scheduler for managing the task execution window system for controlling a window display on the display and the like.

A system service is a set of functions for allowing an upper program such as an application or the like to call each function from the OS. An API Application Programming Interface or run time library or dynamic link library corresponds to it. Owing to the existence of the system service the application does not need to directly operate each hardware and the unity of the hardware operation is assured.

The XML application is a program for controlling a state of the display output or the like of the data broadcast and is an XML document described by a language with a tag which can perform an arbitrary definition such as XML. Each XML document can be also accompanied with a style sheet such as DTD document for definition of a document style XSL document which specifies a display format or XSLT as a derivative standard of CSS or XSL or the like.

The XML parser is a software program for analyzing the XML document by using the DTD document and transfers the document object as an analysis result to the XSL processor. The document object is a structured document in which a tree structure has been formed in accordance with the tag in the original XML document.

Subsequently in the satellite data receiving system a processing procedure for receiving the broadcast data will be described with reference to .

In the digital satellite broadcast system as shown in a broadcast wave is first transmitted from the broadcast server to the satellite and transferred from the satellite to the receiver decoder . The contents of the transmission broadcast wave is constructed by video and audio data AV data constructing the satellite broadcast program main body and digital transmission data accompanied by the broadcast program main body.

As already mentioned the TS decoder interprets the transport stream and separates into the AV data portion and the digital transmission data portion. The AV data portion is processed by the AV decoder . The digital transmission data portion is processed by the CPU .

The digital transmission data portion comprises a plurality of modules. Each module includes an EPG advertisement information and other various information associated by the broadcast program main body. The digital transmission data portion has been formed as a data carrousel merry go round data . Each module repetitively appears during the broadcast of the program main body thus the receiving system as a viewer can obtain the module at an arbitrary timing in the program broadcast period and a memory for cache can be omitted . An automatic start flag for synchronizing with a display output timing of the module can be embedded into the MPEG2 compressed AV data.

Each resource element constructing the module is an independent file having a predetermined format. The audio data is described by for example an audio dedicated file format such as AIFF WAV AAC or the like. The still image is described by an image dedicated file format such as JPEG PNG GIF or the like. The head resource location information describes the position information of each resource element in the module.

The multimedia encoding application is a program for controlling a state of display and output of the EPG advertisement information and other various data broadcast accompanied by the broadcast program main body and is an XML application described in the XML eXtensible Markup Language format. However it is not necessarily limited to the XML language but can be also described in another markup language format such as SGML HTML or the like. The XML document can include the DTD document for defining a document type. Since the style information which designates the actual expressing format is not incorporated in the XML document a style sheet can be also annexed.

The style sheet is a data file in which an actual expressing format of the XML document as output content further it can also include multimedia content such as other audio sound still image and the like has been specified. The style sheet is a document file described in the XSL eXtensible Stylesheet Language format for converting the XML document into a format for displaying and outputting onto the display or converting into a print output format to the printer not shown .

Separately from the style sheet a script in which the operation of the multimedia content comprising various monomedia data such as audio sound text still image motion image and the like has been specified can be also distributed for example the script is described by a script language such as JavaScript ECMAScript Jscript or the like. However according to the standard of XML XSL or the like it is fundamentally specified so that it is described by ECMAScript .

On the receiving system side necessary one of the received distribution content is temporarily stored in a local storing device such as an HDD or memory card of the system .

In a unidirectional transmission environment like a satellite broadcast the content described by the standard XML language is transmitted in a form in which the XML document and the style sheet are contained together so long as the style sheet which is used is not limited.

In the embodiment with respect to the digital transmission data portion in the broadcast content besides a case where the output content XML document and the style sheet XSL document CSS document or the like are contained together a case of the transmission of only the XML document main body or the transmission of only the XSL document is also presumed. The XSL document can be supplied in a form of transmission or distribution other than the broadcast for example it can be supplied by a file download via the network such as Internet or supplied from a portable memory medium such as FD CD ROM MO Memory Stick trademark or the like in which the XSL document has been held.

In the receiving system according to the embodiment the supplied XML document and XSL document or CSS document or the like are separated and stored. That is the HDD or memory card to store the supplied document files is provided with a document main body holding unit for holding and managing only the XML document however the DTD document can be also contained and a style sheet holding unit for holding and managing only the XSL document as a style sheet.

Subsequently in the digital satellite broadcast receiving system a processing procedure for allowing the broadcast server to transmit the digital transmission data portion will be described.

As already been mentioned above the content which is distributed by the broadcast server includes the digital transmission data in addition to the MPEG2 compressed AV data as a broadcast program main body. As described with reference to each module constructing the digital transmission data includes two files constructed by the text format data. One of them is an output data file and its content is described by a markup description language XML HTML or the like in which the data attributes are defined by a tag.

Another text format data included in the module is a script which specifies the operation of various media data such as audio sound still image motion image and the like. For example this script is described by a script language such as JavaScript ECMAScript JScript or the like according to the standard of XML XSL or the like it is fundamentally specified so as to describe it by ECMAScript . The script is a script in which the processing procedure for allowing the software to execute is described in a text format and ordinarily used for automating a series of processes in which operating procedures which can be controlled by the end user have been combined on the application or OS.

In the output data itself described in the XML format or the like the information itself which is screen displayed or print outputted is specified and it is improper to permit the change in content of the text data of it.

On the other hand the function name variable name comment sentence or the like included in the source code of the script includes redundancy and is fatal on the transmitting efficiency. The function name variable name or the like has inherently been named by the person who made the script for the purpose of convenience of readability by human eyes or the like or in accordance with a personal favor and has no relation with the operating function that is specified by the script itself. In other words those function name and variable name have exchangeability with another character string while maintaining the operating function of the script itself. The comment sentence has no relation with the execution of the script and can be also omitted.

The invention is made by paying attention to the redundancy incorporated by the script described in such a text format. In brief according to the invention the data size of the script is reduced by replacing the function name or variable name which exists in the script and comprises a relatively long character string with a shorter character string for example one alphabetical character . Further the data size is reduced by deleting the comment sentence in the script.

In a processing routine for converting the script file in the text format is shown in a form of a flowchart. For example the script file conversion processing routine is executed by the program producer in the broadcast server more specifically speaking the editing system of the producing unit refer to after completion of the making of the digital transmission data. Each step of the flowchart will be described below.

First in step S a character string of low redundancy hereinafter referred to as application characters that is to be substituted for a character string of high redundancy and a variable i are set to initial values. In the embodiment one alphabetical character is used as application characters in the ascending order. It is assumed that when the application characters start from A and reach Z the number of characters is increased one by one in the ascending order such as AA AB AC . . . ZZ AAA . . . .

The ECMAScript has a rule such that the reserved word starts from a small letter. Therefore if the script as a processing target is described in the ECMAScript format by specifying that the application characters start with a capital letter the coincidence with the reserved word of the ECMAScript can be easily eliminated. In this case therefore a discrimination about whether the application characters coincide with the reserved word of the script or not step S in which will be explained below is unnecessary.

Subsequently in step S by scanning the script as a processing target the character strings of the high redundancy are extracted and listed.

The character strings of the high redundancy here are for example the function name and variable name. They have the high redundancy as a result of using the words having a meaning in order to raise the readability by human eyes for coding or debugging. For example the function name and variable name can be extracted from the script in accordance with the following rules. That is 

 2 The content in the parentheses which follows just after the function name is a train of a variable name and a comma.

Subsequently the first element that is the original function name and variable name in the list is extracted step S . By applying the application characters to this element a new function name or variable name is set and a correspondence relation between the element and the application characters is stored in a correspondence table step S . The formed correspondence table is shown in Table 1 which will be explained below.

In step S a discrimination of whether or not the application characters have reached Zn is carried out namely it is determined whether the application characters is a character string consisting of only the letter Z where the number n of character strings is expressed by the power of n .

If the discrimination result is NO step S follows and the application characters are updated to the next character string in the ascending order of the alphabet. If the discrimination result is YES step S follows and the application characters are increased by one character in the ascending order of the alphabet for example if the application characters are equal to Z they are updated to AA and if the application characters are equal to ZZ they are updated to AAA .

Subsequently in step S i is increased by 1 and the processing routine advances to the next element in the list. In step S it is determined whether an unprocessed element remains in the list. If an unprocessed entry remains the processing routine is returned to step S and processes similar to those mentioned above are repetitively executed to the next element. If all of the elements in the list have been registered into the correspondence table the processing routine advances to a subsequent script substitution processing routine S . In this routine the application characters of the low redundancy are substituted for the redundant character string such as function name variable name etc. in the original script thereby compressing the size of script. The whole processing routine is finished.

The script substituting process in step S is a processing routine which has separately been defined and its processing procedure is shown in in a form of a flowchart. Each step in the flowchart will now be described.

First in step S one entry is extracted from the correspondence table refer to Table 1 . Subsequently in step S one sentence is extracted from the original script. It is now assumed that the sentence here indicates a character string from a blank to the next blank or the next new paragraph position and no blank is included.

In step S a discrimination of whether or not the variable name or function name specified by the entry exists in the sentence is carried out. If the discrimination result is NO next step S is skipped. If the discrimination result is YES the corresponding application characters are substituted for the variable name or function name in step S.

Subsequently in step S whether or not the sentence is a comment sentence is discriminated. If it is a script in the ECMAScript format the comment sentence is a character string to the next new paragraph position after a delimiter . If the discrimination result is YES step S follows and this comment sentence is deleted from the script.

Subsequently in step S it is tried to obtain the next sentence. In step S whether or not the sentence is the last sentence is discriminated. If another sentence remains the processing routine is returned to step S and processes similar to those mentioned above are repetitively executed to the next sentence.

If the sentence is the last sentence whether the entry is the last entry in the correspondence table or not is discriminated step S . If another entry remains the processing routine is returned to step S and processes similar to those mentioned above are repetitively executed with respect to the correspondence relation which is specified by the next entry. If the processes regarding all of the correspondence relations are completed the processing routine is finished.

It is desirable that the script converting process is executed when the script is formed in the producing unit and the script obtained after the converting process is stored as a resource into the storing device of a large capacity. Although a method of converting the script just before sending instead of converting at the timing just after the formation of the script is also considered in this case since a module size of resource is changed there is a possibility that it is necessary to reconstruct the module. It is therefore preferable to execute the converting process upon formation of the script. For example in the case where one module has been divided into two or more modules and stored before the converting process due to a limitation of the module length there is also a case where it is fitted within a single module length by the converting process. 

In the original source code the character string for example buildArray or the like which follows just after a reserved word function is a function name and becomes a target to be replaced with a shorter character string.

A substituted character string for example temporary argument or the like of the left side corresponds to a variable name and becomes a target to be similarly replaced with a short character string. Although the variables defined in the script have been mentioned the essence of the invention is not limited to them. For example the substituting process to the short character string can be also similarly applied to a variable as an operator which operates the attributes of the display encoding data in the document such as XML HTML or the like.

A character string which starts from the delimiter and reaches the line end is a comment sentence. In the substituting process according to the embodiment one sentence starting from is searched in the source code and all of the characters to the line end are ignored namely deleted.

A correspondence table shown in the following Table 1 is formed as a result obtained by executing the converting process shown in to the original source code shown in . The extracted character string of high redundancy such as variable name function name or the like is converted into application characters of low redundancy.

As will be understood with reference to the variable name or function name in the original source code is replaced with one alphabetical character and the comment sentence is deleted. As will be visually recognized from the diagram a code amount is largely reduced and a transmitting efficiency is remarkably improved.

After the converting process the processes themselves specified by the script are the same as those before conversion. Therefore in the satellite broadcast receiving system which receives the converted script the execution system of the script can similarly handle it irrespective of whether the size reducing process has been performed or not.

The minimization of the character string length of the function name or variable name in the script is preferable also from a viewpoint of the executing efficiency in the receiving system . This is because the size of function table or variable table which is allocated to the memory by the interpreter for executing the script can be reduced so that an overhead at the time when the function or variable is called decreases.

According to the script conversion processing routine shown in by converting the function name or variable name which is redundant because it has the readability into the short character string from which the redundancy has been removed that is into the application characters the size of script can be compressed to a preferable size.

If the number of function names and variable names as substitution targets is equal to or less than 26 that is if it is equal to or less than the total number of alphabetical characters even if the substituting processes to the application characters are executed in any order the sizes after the conversion are the same.

On the other hand if the number of substitution targets exceeds 26 the application characters of two or more characters besides the application character of one character are used refer to step S in . By substituting a short character string for a longer character string a higher data compressing effect is obtained.

In an example of another script conversion processing routine different from that shown in is shown in a form of a flowchart. In the flowchart attention is paid to data compressing efficiency. That is a step S of sorting the elements in the list again is inserted between steps S and S. That is in step S the elements in the list are sorted again in the order from the element of the large appearance frequency in the script. Thus in the subsequent substituting processes the characters or character string of a large appearance frequency is replaced with characters or character string whose number of characters is small so that the data compressing effect results.

In the routine shown in discrimination of whether or not the updated application characters are a system reserved word is carried out step S between steps S and S. If the updated application characters are the reserved word the processing routine is returned to step S and they are removed from the targets of the character string conversion. This is because if they are converted into the reserved word the inherent meaning of the original script that is the operation specified by the script is changed so that it is improper to permit such a conversion.

The function name and variable name in the script have been named by the person who made the script for convenience of keeping the readability by human eyes of each function name or variable name and each of them is constructed by a relatively long character string having a meaning which can be understood by the person. Although the comment sentence is embedded into the source code in order to memorize the function of each portion for example routine sentence or the like in the script the comment sentence itself does not contribute to the realization of the function.

Although the function name or variable name consisting of a long character string and the comment sentence have a meaning to a position of the debug it is unnecessary to have the meaning which can be interpreted by the person after the debug. Particularly in case of applying the system to the unidirectional content distribution like a satellite broadcast there is no need to consider the reuse of the source code at the stage after the transmission. In other words even if the function name or variable name in the script is replaced with another short character string or the comment sentence is deleted and the source code loses the readability by human eyes there is hardly any trouble by it.

By applying the invention to the digital transmission data in the digital satellite data broadcast the size of transmission data can be reduced and the transmitting efficiency is improved upon distribution.

In the receiver decoder since the size of reception data decreases it is sufficient to merely prepare a reception memory of a relatively small capacity so that the costs are reduced. Since the character string length of the function name or variable name is minimized a size of function table or variable table which is allocated to the memory by the interpreter for executing the script can be reduced. Thus the overhead at the time when the function or variable is called decreases. That is the executing efficiency of the script is improved the memory capacity is reduced so that the costs for the receiver can be decreased.

The present invention has been described in detail above with reference to the specific embodiments. However it will be obviously understood that many modifications and variations of the embodiments are possible to those with ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. That is the invention has been disclosed in a form of embodiments and should not be limitatively interpreted. To judge the essence of the invention the scope of claims should be considered.

As described in detail above according to the invention it is possible to provide an excellent data distributing technique which can improve the transmitting efficiency of the distribution content comprising the text data.

According to the invention it is possible to provide an excellent data distributing technique which can improve the executing efficiency of the receiving apparatus for receiving the distribution content comprising the text data and reduce a memory load.

In case of applying the invention to the distribution of digital data of the digital satellite broadcast or the like a data amount can be reduced without changing the processing contents of the style sheet described in the text format. Thus in the broadcast server as a content distributing source the transmitting efficiency of the distribution content can be improved while keeping the conventional forming operation of the style sheet.

On the receiver decoder side since the size of reception data decreases it is sufficient to merely prepare the reception memory of a relatively small capacity so that the costs can be reduced.

Further since the length of character string of the function name or variable name in the script is minimized the size of function table or variable table which is allocated to the memory by the interpreter for executing the script can be reduced. Thus the overhead at the time when the function or variable is called decreases and the executing efficiency of the script is improved. Therefore the user namely viewer of the receiver can expect a higher reacting speed of the system owing to the improvement of the executing efficiency.

On the broadcast server side which distributes the script since the meaning and contents of the scripts before and after the conversion are not changed the script can be driven on the reception side by using the existing interpreting software. In other words an extra software development is unnecessary.

Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the present invention. It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

