---

title: Macromolecular conjugates of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein inhibitors and uses therefor
abstract: Provided herein are bioactive agents comprising a compound that inhibits the ion transport activity of a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) and that is linked to a macromolecule that interacts with a cell that expresses CFTR. The bioactive agents described herein are useful for treating diseases, disorders, and sequelae of diseases, disorders, and conditions that are associated with aberrantly increased CFTR activity, for example, secretory diarrhea.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08552067&OS=08552067&RS=08552067
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08552067
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071219
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 876 616 filed Dec. 22 2006 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. P30 DK72517 and R01 HL73856 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Agents are needed for treating diseases and disorders related to aberrant cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR such as increased intestinal fluid secretion secretory diarrhea and polycystic kidney disease. Small molecule conjugates are described herein that are potent inhibitors of CFTR activity and that may be used for treating such diseases and disorders.

Diarrheal disease in children is a global health concern approximately four billion cases among children occur annually resulting in two million deaths. Travelers diarrhea affects approximately 6 million people per year. Antibiotics are routinely used to treat diarrhea however the antibiotics are ineffective for treating many pathogens and the use of these drugs contributes to development of antibiotic resistance in other pathogens.

The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR is a cAMP activated chloride Cl channel expressed in epithelial cells in mammalian airways intestine pancreas and testis. Certain mutations in CFTR lead to the hereditary disease cystic fibrosis see e.g. Quinton 79 S3 S22 1999 Boucher 23 146 58 2004 . CFTR is expressed in enterocytes in the intestine and in cyst epithelium in polycystic kidney disease see e.g. O Sullivan et al. 32 976 983 1998 Sullivan et al. 78 1165 91 1998 Strong et al. 93 347 54 1994 Mall et al. 126 32 41 2004 Hanaoka et al. 270 C389 C399 1996 Kunzelmann et al. 82 245 289 2002 Davidow et al. 50 208 18 1996 Li et al. 66 1926 38 2004 Al Awqati 110 1599 1601 2002 Thiagarajah et al. 3 594 99 2003 . Hormones toxins such as cholera toxin and increased cellular Ca lead to an increase in cAMP activation of cAMP dependent protein kinase which phosphorylates the CFTR Cl channel.

CFTR provides a pathway for the movement of Cl ions across the apical membrane and thus regulates the rate of transepithelial salt and water transport. CFTR mediates transepithelial fluid secretion in secretory diarrhea therefore inhibitors of CFTR function may be useful therapeutics for treating this disease. The morbidity and mortality associated with secretory diarrhea indicate an imperative need for potent inhibitors of CFTR activity.

Briefly stated provided herein are bioactive agents compositions and methods that are useful for treating diseases and disorders related to or associated with aberrantly increased CFTR transporter activity. The methods include administration to a subject as provided herein such as a human or other warm blooded animal in need thereof an effective amount of at least one bioactive agent described herein. In one embodiment the bioactive agent has the following formula I A J M wherein n 1 to 500 and n 0 or 1 A is a compound that inhibits activity of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR J is a spacer and M is a macromolecular moiety capable of interacting with a cell that expresses CFTR.

In a more specific embodiment the compound A has a structure of formula A1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof such that the bioactive agent has the formula I a A J M as follows 

Ris phenyl heteroaryl quinolinyl anthracenyl or naphthalenyl or Ris H or Calkyl and R W and Q join together to form a 5 to 7 membered homocyclic or heterocyclic ring 

Ris phenyl optionally substituted with any one or more of hydroxyl Calkyl Calkoxy carboxy halo nitro cyano SOH S O NH aryl and heteroaryl 

Ris H Calkyl phenyl CH CH C O OH CH CH NRR Z NRNR Z or CH CH O CH CHZ wherein x 0 7 y 0 7 and Z is a disaccharide or a synthetic polymer selected from polyoxyalkyl polyether polyethylene glycol PEG polypropylene glycol polyhydroxyethyl glycerol a dendrimer and polyalkylimine 

Ris H alkyl oxo phenyl carboxy aryl heterocycle C O NHNRR C O NHN R NRR C O NHNHC S NRR C O NHNHC O NRR C O NHNHC O CRR C O R CH CH Rwherein z is 0 7 CHCHO Rwherein p is 0 500 or CHCHNHR 

each of R R R and Ris the same or different and independently H Calkyl cycloalkyl phenyl or phenylalkyl 

Ris H Calkyl cycloalkyl phenyl alkylphenyl or a synthetic polymer selected from polyoxyalkyl polyether polyethylene glycol PEG polypropylene glycol polyhydroxyethyl glycerol a dendrimer and polyalkylimine 

wherein J is a spacer that comprises a first end and a second end wherein the spacer is attached to the compound of formula A1 at the first end of the spacer through a first linker functional group and wherein the spacer is attached to the macromolecular moiety M at the second end of the spacer through a second linker functional group and wherein the first end of the spacer is attached to compound A1 at one or more of R R R Ror R 

Additional embodiments of bioactive agents having a structure of the formulae I b I h are described in detail herein. Also provided herein is a method of treating a disease or disorder associated with aberrantly increased ion transport by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR the method comprising administering to a subject the bioactive agent as described above and in further detail herein any one of the bioactive agents having a structure of any one of the formula I and subformulae I a I h wherein ion transport by CFTR is inhibited. In a particular embodiment the disease or disorder is secretory diarrhea.

Also provided herein are compositions that comprise at least one of the bioactive agents having a structure of any one of formula I or subformulae I a I h as described above and herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

In another embodiment a method is provided for treating a disease or disorder associated with aberrantly increased ion transport by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR the method comprising administering to a subject any of the aforementioned compositions comprising at least one bioactive agent having a structure of any one of formula I or subformulae I a I h as described above and herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein ion transport by CFTR is inhibited. In one embodiment the disease or disorder is aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion. In another embodiment the disease or disorder is secretory diarrhea. In certain specific embodiments secretory diarrhea is caused by an enteric pathogen. In particular embodiments the enteric pathogen is rotavirus and . In still another embodiment the secretory diarrhea is induced by an enterotoxin. In a specific embodiment the enterotoxin is a cholera toxin a toxin a toxin a toxin or a toxin. In another particular embodiment secretory diarrhea is a sequelae of ulcerative colitis irritable bowel syndrome IBS AIDS chemotherapy or an enteropathogenic infection. In certain embodiments the subject is a human or non human animal. In a more specific embodiment method of treating secretory diarrhea comprising administering to a subject a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and at least one bioactive agent having a structure of any one of formula I or subformulae I a I h as described above and herein. In certain embodiments the subject is a human or non human animal.

In another embodiment a method is provided for inhibiting ion transport by a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR comprising contacting a a cell that comprises CFTR and b the bioactive agent having a structure of any one of formula I or subformulae I a I h as described above and herein under conditions and for a time sufficient for the CFTR and the compound to interact thereby inhibiting ion transport by CFTR.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an agent includes a plurality of such agents and reference to a cell or the cell includes reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof e.g. plurality of cells known to those skilled in the art and so forth. The term about when referring to a number or a numerical range means that the number or numerical range referred to is an approximation within experimental variability or within statistical experimental error and thus the number or numerical range may vary between 1 and 15 of the stated number or numerical range. The term comprising and related terms such as comprise or comprises or having or including is not intended to exclude that in other certain embodiments for example an embodiment of any composition of matter composition method or process or the like described herein may consist of or consist essentially of the described features.

Specific inhibitors of CFTR activity useful for altering intestinal fluid secretion include the non absorbable glycine hydrazide compounds and malonic hydrazide compounds see e.g. Muanprasat et al. 124 125 37 2004 Sonawane et al. 20 130 32 2006 . Effective glycine hydrazide and malonic hydrazide inhibitors had an ICof approximately 5 M. Binding of compounds with micromolar ICto CFTR expressed in intestinal lumen may be readily reversed particularly by washout of the compound from the intestine by rapid intestinal fluid transit in a subject affected with secretory diarrhea. The disclosure herein relates to the discovery of significantly improved bioactive agents that are inhibitors of CFTR activity and which include hydrazide compound conjugates that are minimally absorbable by cells and thus minimize potential cellular and systemic toxicity.

The bioactive agents described herein may therefore be used for treating diseases and disorders associated with aberrantly increased CFTR mediated transepithelial fluid secretion. Such diseases and disorders include secretory diarrhea which may be caused by enteropathogenic organisms including bacteria viruses and parasites such as but not limited to rotavirus and or by toxins such as cholera toxin and toxin. The bioactive agents described herein may also be useful for treating secretory diarrhea that is a sequelae of a disease disorder or condition including but not limited to AIDS administration of AIDS related therapies chemotherapy and inflammatory gastrointestinal disorders such as ulcerative colitis inflammatory bowel disease IBD and Crohn s disease.

Small molecule inhibitors of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR which is a cAMP activated chloride Cl channel include thiazolidinone compounds see e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0235800 and glycine hydrazide oxamic hydrazide and malonic hydrazide compounds see e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0239740 see also e.g. Salinas et al. 19 431 33 2005 Thiagarajah et al. 18 875 77 2004 . Any one of these compounds may be conjugated to i.e. linked attached joined covalently bonded to a macromolecule that is capable of binding to i.e. associating by ionic interaction coulombic forces hydrophobic hydrophilic lipophilic interaction hydrogen bonding or any combination thereof to a cell that expresses CFTR. Without wishing to be bound by theory these minimally absorbable macromolecular conjugates may have increased potency compared with a non conjugated compound in part because the conjugated compounds are not washed away from the intestinal lumen.

The hydrazide compounds including malonic hydrazide compounds described herein are conjugated to macromolecules e.g. lectins synthetic polymers and other cell binding moieties and have submicromolar potency. These compounds may therefore be used for treating diseases and disorders associated with aberrantly increased CFTR mediated transepithelial fluid secretion such as secretory diarrhea.

A bioactive agent described herein has the following formula I A J M wherein n 1 to 500 and n 0 to 1 A is a compound that inhibits activity of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR J is a spacer and M is a cell binding macromolecular moiety capable of binding to associating with or in some manner interacting with a cell that expresses CFTR. Cell binding moieties which are described in greater detail herein include but are not limited to a lectin a lectin mimetic a cell receptor ligand polylysine a saccharide e.g. a disaccharide or a polysaccharide a synthetic polymer an antibody that specifically binds to a cell surface receptor an antibody that specifically binds to the extracellular domain of a cell transmembrane polypeptide and a peptide.

In one embodiment the compound A moiety of the agent of formula I is a glycine hydrazide oxamic hydrazide acetic acid hydrazide or a malonic hydrazide MalH conjugated i.e. linked attached and preferably covalently bonded to a cell binding moiety M via a spacer J. These bioactive agents are highly water soluble bind to an external surface of the CFTR pore and exhibit minimal systemic absorption into cells i.e. a minimum amount of a compound is transported into a cell .

In one embodiment the bioactive agent has the following formula I A J M wherein n 1 to 500 and n 0 or 1 A is a compound that inhibits activity of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR J is a spacer and M is a macromolecular moiety capable of interacting with a cell that expresses CFTR i.e. a cell binding moiety . In certain specific embodiments n 1 to 10 1 to 15 1 to 20 1 to 25 1 to 50 1 to 100 1 to 200 1 to 250 1 to 300 or 1 to 400 or any integer between any of the aforementioned ranges.

In a more specific embodiment the compound A has a structure of formula A1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof such that the bioactive agent has the formula I a A1 J M as follows 

Ris phenyl optionally substituted with any one or more of hydroxyl Calkyl Calkoxy carboxy halo nitro cyano SOH S O NH aryl and heteroaryl 

Ris H Calkyl phenyl CH CH C O OH CH CH NRR Z NRNR Z or CH CH O CH CHZ wherein x 0 7 y 0 7 and Z is a disaccharide or a synthetic polymer selected from polyoxyalkyl polyether polyethylene glycol PEG polypropylene glycol polyhydroxyethyl glycerol a dendrimer and polyalkylimine 

Ris H alkyl oxo phenyl carboxy aryl heteroaryl C O NHNRR C O NHN R NRR C O NHNHC S NRR C O NHNHC O NRR C O NHNHC O CRR C O R CH CH Rwherein z is 0 7 CHCHO Rwherein p is 0 500 or CHCHNHR 

each of R R R and Ris the same or different and independently H Calkyl cycloalkyl phenyl or phenylalkyl 

Ris H Calkyl cycloalkyl phenyl alkylphenyl or a synthetic polymer selected from polyoxyalkyl polyether polyethylene glycol PEG polypropylene glycol polyhydroxyethyl glycerol a dendrimer and polyalkylimine 

wherein J is a spacer that comprises a first end and a second end wherein the spacer is attached to the compound of formula A1 at the first end of the spacer through a first linker functional group and wherein the spacer is attached to the macromolecular moiety M at the second end of the spacer through a second linker functional group and wherein the first end of the spacer is attached to compound A1 at one or more of R R R Ror R 

In certain embodiments Ris substituted phenyl wherein the phenyl is substituted with one two or three halo one or two carboxy one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo and one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo one or two hydroxyl and one Calkoxy one or two halo one hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy or one halo one or two hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy wherein halo is bromo chloro fluoro or iodo. In other certain specific embodiments Ris substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with halogen or carboxy. In yet other specific embodiments Ris di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo mono hydroxyl phenyl mono halo di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo tri hydroxyl phenyl di halo mono hydroxyl phenyl di halo di hydroxyl phenyl di halo tri hydroxyl phenyl or mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy mono or di alkoxy phenyl i.e. mono halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl di halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl di halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl or di halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl . In certain specific embodiments Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is bromo chloro fluoro or iodo. In a more specific embodiment the halo is bromo. In particular specific embodiments Ris 3 5 dibromo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dibromo 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 4 bromophenyl 4 carboxyphenyl and 3 5 dibromo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl.

In other specific embodiments of the bioactive agent formula I a Ris Calkyl that is optionally substituted with C O OH C O OR SH SR SOR S O NRR S O R SRC O NRR OS O R NRR or S O ORwherein Rand Rare the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl alkoxy aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl aryloxy arylalkoxy heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocycloalkyl or substituted heterocyclealkyl.

In yet other specific embodiments of the bioactive agent formula I a Ris unsubstituted phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with one or more of hydroxy Calkyl halo aryl or aryloxy. Halo is chloro fluoro iodo and in certain specific embodiments halo is chloro. In another specific embodiment Ris substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with methyl. In yet another specific embodiment Ris quinolinyl or anthracenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl Calkyl or Calkoxy. In other embodiments Ris 2 naphthalenyl or 1 naphthalenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl SH SOH Calkyl Calkoxy aryl or aryloxy. In more specific embodiments Ris mono halo naphthalenyl di halo naphthalenyl tri halo naphthalenyl mono hydroxy naphthalenyl di hydroxy naphthalenyl tri hydroxy naphthalenyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl tri alkoxy naphthalenyl mono aryloxy naphthalenyl di aryloxy naphthalenyl mono alkyl naphthalenyl di alkyl naphthalenyl tri alkyl naphthalenyl mono hydroxy naphthalene sulfonic acid mono hydroxy naphthalene disulfonic acid mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy naphthalenyl mono alkyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl or mono alkyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl. In still more specific embodiments Ris 2 chlorophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 dichlorophenyl 4 methylphenyl 2 anthracenyl or 6 quinolinyl. In other particular embodiments Ris quinolinyl or anthracenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl Calkyl or Calkoxy.

In other specific embodiments of the bioactive agent formula I a each of Rand Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen oxo methyl or ethyl. In another specific embodiment Ris oxo. In a particular embodiment Ris hydrogen Ris hydrogen methyl or ethyl Ris mono halo phenyl di halo phenyl or naphthalenyl Ris di halo mono hydroxyl phenyl or di halo di hydroxyl phenyl and Ris hydrogen or methyl.

In certain specific embodiments n 1 to 10 1 to 15 1 to 20 1 to 25 1 to 50 1 to 100 1 to 200 1 to 250 1 to 300 or 1 to 400 or any integer between any of the aforementioned ranges.

In another embodiment of the bioactive agent described above each of W and D is N Q is C and each of Rand Ris H and the compound A has a structure of formula A2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof such that the bioactive agent has the formula I b A2 J M as follows 

wherein Ris phenyl heteroaryl quinolinyl anthracenyl or naphthalenyl. In certain embodiments each of R R and Rare as defined for a compound of formula A1. In certain other embodiments Ris substituted phenyl and wherein the phenyl is substituted with one two or three halo one or two carboxy one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo and one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo one or two hydroxyl and one Calkoxy one or two halo one hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy or one halo one or two hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy wherein halo is bromo chloro fluoro or iodo. In yet other specific embodiments Ris di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo mono hydroxyl phenyl mono halo di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo tri hydroxyl phenyl di halo mono hydroxyl phenyl di halo di hydroxyl phenyl di halo tri hydroxyl phenyl or mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy mono or di alkoxy phenyl i.e. mono halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl di halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl di halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl or di halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl . In certain specific embodiments Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is bromo chloro fluoro or iodo. In a more specific embodiment halo is bromo. In other certain embodiments Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. In other specific embodiments halo is bromo.

In other embodiments of a bioactive agent that has the formula I b Ris unsubstituted phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with one or more of hydroxy Calkyl aryl aryloxy or halo wherein halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. In a more specific embodiment halo is chloro. In another specific embodiment Ris substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with methyl. In still another specific embodiment Ris quinolinyl or anthracenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl Calkyl or Calkoxy. In certain specific embodiments Ris 2 naphthalenyl or 1 naphthalenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl SH SOH Calkyl aryl aryloxy or Calkoxy. In other specific embodiments Ris mono halo naphthalenyl di halo naphthalenyl tri halo naphthalenyl mono hydroxy naphthalenyl di hydroxy naphthalenyl tri hydroxy naphthalenyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl tri alkoxy naphthalenyl mono aryloxy naphthalenyl di aryloxy naphthalenyl mono alkyl naphthalenyl di alkyl naphthalenyl tri alkyl naphthalenyl mono hydroxy naphthalene sulfonic acid mono hydroxy naphthalene disulfonic acid mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy naphthalenyl mono alkyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl or mono alkyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl. In yet another specific embodiment Ris 2 chlorophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 4 methylphenyl 2 anthracenyl or 6 quinolinyl. In other particular embodiments Ris quinolinyl or anthracenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl Calkyl or Calkoxy.

In other embodiments of a bioactive agent that has the formula I b each of Rand Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen oxo methyl or ethyl. In another particular embodiment Ris oxo. In other particular embodiments Ris hydrogen oxo or methyl. In still another specific embodiment Ris 3 5 dibromo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl or 3 5 dibromo 4 hydroxyphenyl.

In another embodiment provided herein is a bioactive agent having the following formula I A J M wherein n 1 to 500 and n 0 or 1 wherein the compound A has a structure of formula A3 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof such that the bioactive agent has the formula I c A3 J M as follows 

Ris phenyl optionally substituted with any one or more of hydroxyl Calkyl Calkoxy carboxy halo nitro cyano SOH S O NH aryl and heteroaryl 

Ris H alkyl oxo phenyl heterocycle aryl carboxy C O NHNRR C O NHN R NRR C O NHNHC S NRR C O NHNHC O NRR C O NHNHC O CRR C O R CH CH Rwherein z is 0 7 CHCHO Rwherein p is 0 500 or CHCHNHR 

Ris H Calkyl cycloalkyl phenyl alkylphenyl or a synthetic polymer selected from polyoxyalkyl polyether polyethylene glycol PEG polypropylene glycol polyhydroxyethyl glycerol a dendrimer and polyalkylimine 

wherein J is a spacer that comprises a first end and a second end wherein the spacer is attached to the compound of formula A3 at the first end of the spacer through a first linker functional group and wherein the spacer is attached to the macromolecular moiety M at the second end of the spacer through a second linker functional group and wherein the first end of the spacer is attached to compound A3 at one or more of R R R or R and wherein when n 0 M forms a direct bond with at least one of R R R or R.

In a particular embodiment of the bioactive agent of formula I c Ris oxo. In another particular embodiment Ris substituted phenyl and wherein the phenyl is substituted with one two or three halo one or two carboxy one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo and one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo one or two hydroxyl and one Calkoxy one or two halo one hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy or one halo one or two hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy. In yet other specific embodiments Ris di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo mono hydroxyl phenyl mono halo di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo tri hydroxyl phenyl di halo mono hydroxyl phenyl di halo di hydroxyl phenyl di halo tri hydroxyl phenyl or mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy mono or di alkoxy phenyl i.e. mono halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl di halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl di halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl or di halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl . In certain specific embodiments Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is bromo chloro fluoro or iodo. In a more specific embodiment the halo is bromo. In a more specific embodiment Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. In a specific embodiment halo is bromo.

In another particular embodiment of the bioactive agent of formula I c Ris unsubstituted phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with one or more of hydroxy Calkyl aryl aryloxy or halo wherein halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. In a specific embodiment halo is chloro. In another specific embodiment Ris substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with methyl. In yet another embodiment Ris quinolinyl or anthracenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl Calkyl or Calkoxy. In still another embodiment Ris 2 naphthalenyl or 1 naphthalenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl SH SOH Calkyl aryl aryloxy or Calkoxy. In certain embodiments Ris mono halo naphthalenyl di halo naphthalenyl tri halo naphthalenyl mono hydroxy naphthalenyl di hydroxy naphthalenyl tri hydroxy naphthalenyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl tri alkoxy naphthalenyl mono aryloxy naphthalenyl di aryloxy naphthalenyl mono alkyl naphthalenyl di alkyl naphthalenyl tri alkyl naphthalenyl mono hydroxy naphthalene sulfonic acid mono hydroxy naphthalene disulfonic acid mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy naphthalenyl mono alkyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl or mono alkyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl wherein halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. In yet other specific embodiments Ris 2 chlorophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 4 methylphenyl 2 anthracenyl or 6 quinolinyl. In other particular embodiments Ris quinolinyl or anthracenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl Calkyl or Calkoxy. In a more specific embodiment each of Rand Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen oxo methyl or ethyl. In a more specific embodiment Ris oxo.

In certain specific embodiments n 1 to 10 1 to 15 1 to 20 1 to 25 1 to 50 1 to 100 1 to 200 1 to 250 1 to 300 or 1 to 400 or any integer between any of the aforementioned ranges.

In another embodiment provided herein is a bioactive agent having the following formula I A J M wherein n 1 to 500 and n 0 or 1 wherein the compound A has a structure of formula A4 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof such that the bioactive agent has the formula I d A4 J M as follows 

Ris phenyl optionally substituted with any one or more of hydroxyl Calkyl Calkoxy carboxy halo nitro cyano SOH S O NH aryl and heteroaryl 

J is a spacer that comprises a first end and a second end wherein the spacer is attached to the compound of formula A4 at the first end of the spacer through a first linker functional group and wherein the spacer is attached to the macromolecular moiety M at the second end of the spacer through a second linker functional group and wherein the first end of the spacer is attached to compound A4 at Ror Ror both Rand R 

In certain specific embodiments Ris substituted phenyl and wherein the phenyl is substituted with one two or three halo one or two carboxy one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo and one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo one or two hydroxyl and one Calkoxy one or two halo one hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy one halo one or two hydroxyl or one or two Calkoxy. In yet other specific embodiments Ris di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo mono hydroxyl phenyl mono halo di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo tri hydroxyl phenyl di halo mono hydroxyl phenyl di halo di hydroxyl phenyl di halo tri hydroxyl phenyl or mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy mono or di alkoxy phenyl i.e. mono halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl di halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl di halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl or di halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl . In certain specific embodiments Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is bromo chloro fluoro or iodo. In a more specific embodiment the halo is bromo. In yet other specific embodiments Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is chloro bromo fluoro or iodo. In certain specific embodiments halo is bromo. As noted below in the definitions a substituted alkyl cycloalkyl or heterocyclealkyl may be further substituted. For example phenoxy is a substituted phenyl which may be further substituted with any of the substituents defined herein.

In another particular embodiment of the bioactive agent of formula I d Ris unsubstituted phenyl or phenoxy or substituted phenyl or phenoxy wherein phenyl or phenoxy is substituted with one or more of hydroxy Calkyl aryl aryloxy or halo wherein halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. In a specific embodiment halo is chloro.

In another specific embodiment Ris substituted phenyl wherein phenyl is substituted with methyl. In still another embodiment Ris 2 naphthalenyl or 1 naphthalenyl naphthoxy or naphthylthio optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl SH SOH Calkyl aryl aryloxy or Calkoxy. In certain embodiments naphthalenyl naphthoxy or naphthylthio may be substituted. The following exemplify certain substituted naphthalenyl naphthoxy or naphthylthio groups using naphthalenyl as the exemplary naphthyl group Ris mono halo naphthalenyl di halo naphthalenyl tri halo naphthalenyl mono hydroxy naphthalenyl di hydroxy naphthalenyl tri hydroxy naphthalenyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl tri alkoxy naphthalenyl mono aryloxy naphthalenyl di aryloxy naphthalenyl mono alkyl naphthalenyl di alkyl naphthalenyl tri alkyl naphthalenyl mono hydroxy naphthalene sulfonic acid mono hydroxy naphthalene disulfonic acid mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy naphthalenyl mono alkyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl or mono alkyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl wherein halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. In yet other specific embodiments Ris 2 chlorophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 chlorophenyl or 4 methylphenyl.

In certain specific embodiments n 1 to 10 1 to 15 1 to 20 1 to 25 1 to 50 1 to 100 1 to 200 1 to 250 1 to 300 or 1 to 400 or any integer between any of the aforementioned ranges.

In one embodiment of the bioactive agent described above A J M compound A has a structure of subformula A5 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof wherein R R and Rare as defined above for a compound having the formula A1 and wherein each of W and D is N Q is C and each of Rand Ris H such that the bioactive agent has the formula I e A5 J M as follows 

wherein Ris phenyl optionally substituted with at least one hydroxyl halo Calkyl Calkoxy carboxy or S O O isocyanate isothiocyanate carboxyester activated carboxy ester SH or maleimide. In other specific embodiments Ris 3 5 dibromo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dibromo 4 hydroxphenyl or 2 4 phenyldisulfonate. In certain embodiments Ris 2 naphthalenyl or 1 naphthalenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl SH SOH Calkyl aryl aryloxy or Calkoxy. In other certain embodiments Ris substituted phenyl and wherein the phenyl is substituted with one two or three halo one or two carboxy one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo and one two or three hydroxyl one or two halo one or two hydroxyl and one Calkoxy one or two halo one hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy or one halo one or two hydroxyl and one or two Calkoxy wherein halo is bromo chloro iodo or fluoro in a more specific embodiment halo is bromo. In yet other specific embodiments Ris di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo mono hydroxyl phenyl mono halo di hydroxyl phenyl mono halo tri hydroxyl phenyl di halo mono hydroxyl phenyl di halo di hydroxyl phenyl di halo tri hydroxyl phenyl or mono or di halo mono or di hydroxy mono or di alkoxy phenyl i.e. mono halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl mono halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl mono halo di hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl di halo mono hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl di halo di hydroxy mono alkoxy phenyl or di halo mono hydroxy di alkoxy phenyl . In certain specific embodiments Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is bromo chloro fluoro or iodo. In a more specific embodiment the halo is bromo. In still yet other embodiments Ris 2 3 or 4 halophenyl 3 5 dihalophenyl 2 3 or 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 halo 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 5 dihalo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 carboxyphenyl wherein halo is chloro fluoro iodo and bromo. In a specific embodiment halo is bromo.

In certain specific embodiments n 1 to 10 1 to 15 1 to 20 1 to 25 1 to 50 1 to 100 1 to 200 1 to 250 1 to 300 or 1 to 400 or any integer between any of the aforementioned ranges.

In another embodiment the bioactive agent of formula I wherein each of W and D is N Q is C Ris defined as for the compound of formula A1 and each of R Rand Ris H such that compound A has a structure of formula A6 wherein the first end of J is attached at Rsuch that the bioactive agent has the following formula I f A6 J M 

wherein each of RR R R and Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen hydroxy halo Calkyl Calkoxy or carboxy. In certain particular embodiments each of Rand Ris halo and each of Rand Ris hydroxyl or wherein each of Rand Ris halo and Ris hydroxyl. In more specific embodiments halo is bromo. In other specific embodiments Ris 2 naphthalenyl or 1 naphthalenyl optionally substituted with one or more of halo hydroxyl SH Calkyl and Calkoxy 2 chlorophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 dichlorophenyl 4 methylphenyl 2 anthracenyl or 6 quinolinyl. In yet other specific embodiments Ris H Ris Calkyl and J is attached at R. In yet another specific embodiment Ris oxo Ris Calkyl and J is attached at R. In certain specific embodiments n 1 to 10 1 to 15 1 to 20 1 to 25 1 to 50 1 to 100 1 to 200 1 to 250 1 to 300 or 1 to 400 or any integer between any of the aforementioned ranges.

In one embodiment the bioactive agent of any one of formula I and subformulae I a I f described herein the spacer J is selected from DIDS 4 4 diisothiocyanatostilbene 2 2 disulfonic acid bis polyethylene glycol bis imidazoyl carbonyl N 2 pyridyldithio ethyl 4 azidosalicylamide and maleimidoethyl succinimidyl succinate. In a more specific embodiment J is selected from structures J1 J30 as set forth in Table 1.

In another embodiment the bioactive agent of any one of formula I and subformulae I a I f described herein M is selected from a lectin a cell receptor ligand polylysine a saccharide a synthetic polymer an antibody that specifically binds to a cell surface receptor an antibody that specifically binds to the extracellular domain of a cell transmembrane polypeptide an antibody that specifically binds to CFTR an antibody that specifically binds to a cellular polypeptide that co expresses with CFTR and a cell penetrating peptide. In certain embodiments M is a lectin selected from a jack bean lectin a wheat germ lectin a tomato lectin an asparagus pea lectin a scarlet runner bean lectin a pea lectin a chick pea lectin soybean lectin and lentil lectin and a potato lectin. In more specific embodiments the lectin is a jack bean lectin and wherein the jack bean lectin is Concanavalin A and yet in other specific embodiments the lectin is a wheat lectin or a tomato lectin.

In one embodiment the bioactive agent of formula I f has Rthat is 2 naphthalenyl or 4 chlorophenyl Rand Rare H Rand Rare bromo Ris hydroxyl J is DIDS and M is a lectin and wherein the bioactive agent has a structure of the following formula I g or I h 

In particular embodiments the lectin is a jack bean lectin a wheat lectin a tomato lectin an asparagus pea lectin a scarlet runner bean lectin a pea lectin a chick pea lectin a soybean lectin a lentil lectin or a potato lectin.

In another embodiment of the bioactive agent of formula I f Ris 2 naphthalenyl Ris H Rand Rare each halo Ris hydroxyl Ris H or hydroxyl J is DIDS and M is a synthetic polymer such that the bioactive agent has a structure of the following formula I h 

wherein n 1 10. In certain specific embodiments the polymer is a polyamidoamine dendrimer or a polyalkylamine.

In another embodiment the bioactive agent having a formula of I f wherein Ris oxo Ris Calkyl and J is attached at Rand wherein J has the structure J30

In certain embodiments in formula I and subformulae I a I f described herein compound A has a naphthalenyl as the substituent R. As described herein the naphthalenyl may be 1 naphthalenyl or 2 naphthalenyl and may be optionally substituted. Exemplary substituted naphthalenyl groups include the following a mono halo naphthalenyl such as 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 chloronaphthalenyl di halo naphthalenyl such as 3 4 or 5 6 or 5 7 or 5 8 dichloronaphthalenyl a mono hydroxy naphthalenyl such as 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 hydroxynaphthalenyl a di hydroxy naphthalenyl 1 8 3 4 dihydroxynaphthalenyl a mono alkoxy naphthalenyl such as 1 3 5 6 7 or 8 methoxynaphthalenyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl such as 5 8 dimethoxynaphthalenyl tri alkoxy naphthalenyl such as 1 4 8 trimethoxynaphthalenyl a mono alkyl naphthalenyl such as 1 3 4 5 or 6 methylnaphthalenyl di alkyl naphthalenyl such as 4 5 4 6 dimethynaphthalenyl a mono hydroxy naphthalene sulfonic acid such as 4 hydroxy 2 naphthalene sulfonic acid 8 hydroxy 3 6 disulfo naphthalenyl mono alkyl mono or di alkoxy naphthalenyl such as 1 methyl 5 6 dimethoxynaphthalenyl. In certain embodiments Ris mono halo naphthalenyl di halo naphthalenyl mono hydroxy napthalenyl a di hydroxy napthalenyl mono alkoxy napthalenyl di alkoxy napthalenyl tri alkoxy napthalenyl mono alkyl napthalenyl di alkyl napthalenyl mono hydroxy mono napthalene sulfonic acid mono hydroxy napthalen disulfonic acid mono alkyl mono alkoxy naphthalenyl or mono alkyl di alkoxy naphthalenyl. In other embodiments the substituent or substituents may be aryl or aryloxy.

Also in certain embodiments compound A described herein has Rthat may be an optionally substituted phenyl. As described above or in addition to the description above the substituent Ris in certain embodiments optionally substituted as follows. In certain embodiments the phenyl is substituted with halo and in particular embodiments the halo is bromo. For example Rincludes a mono halo phenyl such as 2 3 or 4 bromophenyl. In other embodiments Ris a mono hydroxyphenyl such as 2 3 4 hydroxyphenyl or is a di hydroxyl phenyl such as 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl. In other embodiments Ris substituted with two or more different substituents such as for example a mono or di halo mono di or tri hydroxy phenyl such as 3 5 dibromo 2 4 6 trihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dibromo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl 3 5 dibromo 4 hydroxyphenyl or 3 bromo 4 hydroxyphenyl or a mono or di halo mono or di hydroxyl mono or di alkoxy phenyl such as 3 5 dibromo 2 hydroxy 4 methoxyphenyl.

Also provided herein are compositions including pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically i.e. physiologically acceptable excipient and any one of the bioactive agents of any one of formula I and subformulae I a I h described herein. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are discussed in further detail herein.

Also provided herein are methods of using the bioactive agents having a structure of any one of formula I and subformulae I a I h and compositions comprising these agents which are summarized below and discussed in greater detail herein. In one embodiment a method is provided for treating a disease or disorder associated with aberrantly increased ion transport by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR the method comprising administering to a subject the bioactive agent having a structure of any one of formula I and subformulae I a I h described herein or a composition comprising the bioactive agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein ion transport by CFTR is inhibited i.e. ion transport is inhibited slowed reduced abrogated blocked or prevented in a statistically or biologically significant manner . Thus the bioactive agent or composition comprising the bioactive agent is administered in an amount effective to inhibit efflux of the ion from the cell into extracellular space or environment . In one embodiment the disease or disorder is aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion or secretory diarrhea. In certain embodiments secretory diarrhea is caused by an enteric pathogen wherein the enteric pathogen is any one of rotavirus and

In particular embodiments secretory diarrhea is induced by an enterotoxin wherein the enterotoxin is a cholera toxin an toxin a toxin a toxin or a toxin. In certain other embodiments secretory diarrhea is a sequelae of ulcerative colitis irritable bowel syndrome IBS AIDS chemotherapy or an enteropathogenic infection. In particular embodiments the subject is a human or non human animal.

In another embodiment a method is provided for inhibiting ion transport by a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR comprising contacting a a cell that comprises CFTR and b the bioactive agent having a structure of any one of formula I and subformulae I a I h described herein or a composition comprising the bioactive agent and a physiologically acceptable excipient e.g. a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient under conditions and for a time sufficient for the CFTR and the compound to interact. The cell typically comprises CFTR in the outer membrane that facilitates influx and efflux of ions particularly chloride ions from or into respectively the extracellular environment.

Also provided herein is a method of treating secretory diarrhea comprising administering to a subject a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a bioactive agent having a structure of any one of formula I and subformulae I a I h . In particular embodiments the subject is a human or non human animal.

The hydrazide compound that inhibits activity of CFTR is linked or joined to the macromolecular moiety M via the spacer J which may also be referred to as a linker . The spacer J comprises a first end and a second end wherein the spacer is attached to the compound having a structure of formula A and related structures and substructures at the first end of the spacer through a first linker functional group. The spacer is attached to the macromolecular moiety M at the second end of the spacer through a second linker functional group. The first end of the spacer may be attached to compound A at any one of several attachment sites including but not limited to at R R R R or Rdescribed herein. In certain embodiments J may be absent and the macromolecular moiety M may be joined i.e. linked attached or conjugated to directly to a compound of formula A. The bioactive agent having a formula I e for example at Rmay be joined directly to a macromolecular moiety M and J is absent. When J is absent either a compound of formula A or the macromolecular moiety has a functional group useful for joining compound A and the moiety M.

Each of the first and second linker functional groups which are reactive functional groups may be the same or different and include for example an activated acid such as a succinimidyl ester mesylate tosylate amino thio hydroxy isocyanate isothiocyanate maleimide keto aldehyde acid hydrazide and azido. Carboxy esters may be activated carboxy esters which are capable of reacting with amine groups and thus are useful for conjugating a CFTR inhibitor compound of structure A to a polypeptide or peptide. Activated carboxy esters include p nitrophenyl esters pentafluorophenyl esters and succinamide esters. Exemplary spacers include DIDS 4 4 diisothiocyanatostilbene 2 2 disulfonic acid bis polyethylene glycol bis imidazoyl carbonyl N 2 pyridyldithio ethyl 4 azidosalicylamide and maleimidoethyl succinimidyl succinate. The first linker functional groups may be nucleophilic or electrophilic and the second linker functional group may be either the same or different in nature. Other exemplary bifunctional spacers include any one of the following structures J1 J30 presented in Table 1.

In certain embodiments the spacer or linker may have a first linker functional group at the first end and a third linker functional group in addition to the second linker functional group at the second end. Alternatively a first spacer J may be attached to a second spacer J wherein the first linker functional group of J is attached to a compound of formula A or of any subformulae described herein and the second linker functional group of J is attached to the first linker functional group of a second spacer J which is then attached to a macromolecular moiety M via the second linker functional group of J . An exemplary embodiment is 4 chlorophenyl MalH DIDS attached to tris aminoethyl amine having the structure shown below.

Certain chemical groups named herein are preceded by a shorthand notation indicating the total number of carbon atoms that are to be found in the indicated chemical group. For example C Calkyl describes an alkyl group as defined below having a total of 1 to 8 carbon atoms and C Ccycloalkyl describes a cycloalkyl group as defined below having a total of 3 to 12 carbon atoms. The total number of carbons in the shorthand notation does not include carbons that may exist in substituents of the group described. In addition to the foregoing as used herein unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated.

 Alkyl means a straight chain or branched noncyclic or cyclic unsaturated or saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms while the term Calkyl has the same meaning as alkyl but contain from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl and the like while saturated branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl heptyl n octyl isopentyl 2 ethylhexyl and the like. Representative saturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl CHcyclopropyl CHcyclobutyl CHcyclopentyl CHcyclohexyl and the like unsaturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl and the like. Cyclic alkyls also referred to as homocyclic rings include di and poly homocyclic rings such as decalin and adamantyl. Unsaturated alkyls contain at least one double or triple bond between adjacent carbon atoms referred to as an alkenyl or alkynyl respectively . Representative straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl propylenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl and the like representative straight chain and branched alkynyls include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl and the like.

It is understood that within the context of the compounds described herein that the terms alkyl aryl arylalkyl heterocycle homocycle and heterocycloalkyl are taken to comprise unsubstituted alkyl and substituted alkyl unsubstituted aryl and substituted aryl unsubstituted arylalkyl and substituted arylalkyl unsubstituted heterocycle and substituted heterocycle unsubstituted homocycle and substituted homocycle unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl and substituted heterocyclealkyl respectively as defined herein unless otherwise specified.

As used herein the term substituted in the context of alkyl aryl arylalkyl heterocycle and heterocycloalkyl means that at least one hydrogen atom of the alky aryl arylalkyl heterocycle or heterocycloalkyl moiety is replaced with a substituent. In the instance of an oxo substituent O two hydrogen atoms are replaced. A substituent as used within the context of this disclosure includes oxo halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkyl alkoxy thioalkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl heteroalkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocycloalkyl substituted heterocycloalkyl NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR NRS O R ORR C O R C O OR C O NRR OCHC O NRR OC O NRR SH SR SOR S O NRR S O R SRC O NRR OS O Rand S O OR also written as SOR wherein Rand Rare the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl alkoxy aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl arylalkoxy heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocycloalkyl or substituted heterocycloalkyl. The definitions of Rand Rabove apply to all uses of these substituents throughout the description.

Representative substituents include but are not limited to alkoxy i.e. alkyl O including Calkoxy e.g. methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy pentoxy aryloxy e.g. phenoxy chlorophenoxy tolyloxy methoxyphenoxy benzyloxy alkyloxycarbonylphenoxy alkyloxycarbonyloxy acyloxyphenoxy acyloxy e.g. propionyloxy benzoyloxy acetoxy carbamoyloxy carboxy mercapto alkylthio acylthio arylthio e.g. phenylthio chlorophenylthio alkylphenylthio alkoxyphenylthio benzylthio alkyloxycarbonyl phenylthio amino e.g. amino mono and di C Calkanylamino methylphenylamino methylbenzylamino C Calkanylamido acylamino carbamamido ureido guanidino nitro and cyano . Moreover any substituent may have from 1 5 further substituents attached thereto.

 Aryl means an aromatic carbocyclic moiety such as phenyl or naphthyl i.e. naphthalenyl 1 or 2 naphthyl or anthracenyl e.g. 2 anthracenyl .

 Arylalkyl e.g. phenylalkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with an aryl moiety such as CH phenyl CH CH phenyl C CH CH phenyl and the like.

 Heteroaryl means an aromatic heterocycle ring of 5 to 10 members and having at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and containing at least 1 carbon atom including both mono and bicyclic ring systems. Representative heteroaryls are furyl benzofuranyl thiophenyl benzothiophenyl pyrrolyl indolyl isoindolyl azaindolyl pyridyl quinolinyl including 6 quinolinyl isoquinolinyl oxazolyl isooxazolyl benzoxazolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl benzimidazolyl thiazolyl benzothiazolyl isothiazolyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl triazinyl cinnolinyl phthalazinyl and quinazolinyl.

 Heteroarylalkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with a heteroaryl moiety such as CHpyridinyl CHpyrimidinyl and the like.

 Heterocycle also referred to herein as a heterocyclic ring means a 4 to 7 membered monocyclic or 7 to 10 membered bicyclic heterocyclic ring which is either saturated unsaturated or aromatic and which contains from 1 to 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may be optionally quaternized including bicyclic rings in which any of the above heterocycles are fused to a benzene ring. The heterocycle may be attached via any heteroatom or carbon atom. Heterocycles include heteroaryls as defined herein. Thus in addition to the heteroaryls listed above heterocycles also include morpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl hydantoinyl valerolactamyl oxiranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydroprimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl and the like.

The term optionally substituted as used in the context of an optionally substituted heterocycle as well heteroaryl means that at least one hydrogen atom is replaced with a substituent. In the case of a keto substituent C O two hydrogen atoms are replaced. When substituted one or more of the above groups are substituted.

 Substituents within the context of description herein are also described above and include halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkyl alkoxy alkylthio haloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl heterocycle and heterocycloalkyl as well as NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR NRS O R OR C O R C O O R C O NRR OCHC O NRR OC O NRR SH SR SOR S O NRR S O R OS O Rand S O OR. In addition the above substituents may be further substituted with one or more of the above substituents such that the substituent is a substituted alkyl substituted aryl substituted arylalkyl substituted heterocycle or substituted heterocycloalkyl. Rand Rin this context may be the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl alkoxy aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heterocycle including heteroaryl substituted heterocycle including substituted heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl or substituted heterocycloalkyl.

 Heterocycloalkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with a heterocycle such as CH morpholinyl CHCHpiperidinyl CHazepineyl CHpirazineyl CHpyranyl CHfuranyl CHpyrrolidinyl and the like.

 Homocycle also referred to herein as homocyclic ring means a saturated or unsaturated but not aromatic carbocyclic ring containing from 3 7 carbon atoms such as cyclopropane cyclobutane cyclopentane cyclohexane cycloheptane cyclohexene and the like.

 Haloalkyl which is an example of a substituted alkyl means an alkyl having at least one hydrogen atom replaced with halogen such as trifluoromethyl and the like.

 Haloaryl which is an example of a substituted aryl means an aryl having at least one hydrogen atom replaced with halogen such as 4 fluorophenyl and the like.

 Alkoxy means an alkyl moiety attached through an oxygen bridge i.e. O alkyl such as methoxy ethoxy and the like.

 Haloalkoxy which is an example of a substituted alkoxy means an alkoxy moiety having at least one hydrogen atom replaced with halogen such as chloromethoxy and the like.

 Alkoxydiyl means an alkyl moiety attached through two separate oxygen bridges i.e. O alkyl O such as O CH O O CHCH O O CHCHCH O O CH CH CHCH O O CHC CH CH O and the like.

 Alkanediyl means a divalent alkyl from which two hydrogen atoms are taken from the same carbon atom or from different carbon atoms such as CH CHCH CHCHCH CH CH CHCH CHC CH CH and the like.

 Thioalkyl means an alkyl moiety attached through a sulfur bridge i.e. S alkyl such as methylthio ethylthio and the like.

 Alkylamino and dialkylamino mean one or two alkyl moieties attached through a nitrogen bridge i.e. N alkyl such as methylamino ethylamino dimethylamino diethylamino and the like.

The compounds described herein may generally be used as the free acid or free base. Alternatively the compounds may be used in the form of acid or base addition salts. Acid addition salts of the free base amino compounds may be prepared according to methods well known in the art and may be formed from organic and inorganic acids. Suitable organic acids include but are not limited to maleic fumaric benzoic ascorbic succinic methanesulfonic acetic oxalic propionic tartaric salicylic citric gluconic lactic mandelic cinnamic aspartic stearic palmitic glycolic glutamic and benzenesulfonic acids. Suitable inorganic acids include but are not limited to hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric phosphoric and nitric acids. Base addition salts of the free acid compounds of the compounds described herein may also be prepared by methods well known in the art and may be formed from organic and inorganic bases. Suitable inorganic bases included but are not limited to the hydroxide or other salt of sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum and the like and organic bases such as substituted ammonium salts. Thus the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt of structure I as well as any and all substructures described herein is intended to encompass any and all pharmaceutically suitable salt forms.

Also contemplated are prodrugs of any of the compounds described herein. Prodrugs are any covalently bonded carriers that release a compound of structure I as well as any of the substructures herein in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a subject. Prodrugs are generally prepared by modifying functional groups in a way such that the modification is cleaved either by routine manipulation or by an in vivo process yielding the parent compound. Prodrugs include for example compounds described herein when for example hydroxy or amine groups are bonded to any group that when administered to a subject is cleaved to form the hydroxy or amine groups. Thus representative examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to acetate formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol and amine functional groups of the compounds of structure I as well as any of the substructures herein. Further in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH esters may be employed such as methyl esters ethyl esters and the like. Prodrug chemistry is conventional to and routinely practiced by a person having ordinary skill in the art.

Prodrugs are typically rapidly transformed in vivo to yield the parent compound i.e. a bioactive agent of formula I or subformulae Ia Ih for example by hydrolysis in blood. The prodrug compound often offers advantages of solubility tissue compatibility or delayed release in a mammalian organism see e.g. Bundgard H. Design of Prodrugs 1985 pp. 7 9 21 24 Elsevier Amsterdam . A discussion of prodrugs is provided in Higuchi T. et al. Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems A.C.S. Symposium Series Vol. 14 and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Ed. Edward B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987 both of which are incorporated in full by reference herein.

With regard to stereoisomers the compounds of structure I as well as any substructure herein may have one or more chiral centers and may occur in any isomeric form including racemates racemic mixtures and as individual enantiomers or diastereomers. In addition the compounds of structure I as well as any substructure thereof include E and Z isomers of all double bonds. All such isomeric forms of the compounds are included and contemplated as well as mixtures thereof. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of any compound described herein may exist as polymorphs which are also included and contemplated by the present disclosure. In addition some of the compounds may form solvates with water or other organic solvents. Such solvates are similarly included within the scope of compounds and compositions described herein.

In general the compounds used in the reactions described herein may be made according to organic synthesis techniques known to those skilled in this art starting from commercially available chemicals and or from compounds described in the chemical literature. Commercially available chemicals may be obtained from standard commercial sources including Acros Organics Pittsburgh Pa. Aldrich Chemical Milwaukee Wis. including Sigma Chemical and Fluka Apin Chemicals Ltd. Milton Park UK Avocado Research Lancashire U.K. BDH Inc. Toronto Canada Bionet Cornwall U.K. Chemservice Inc. West Chester Pa. Crescent Chemical Co. Hauppauge N.Y. Eastman Organic Chemicals Eastman Kodak Company Rochester N.Y. Fisher Scientific Co. Pittsburgh Pa. Fisons Chemicals Leicestershire UK Frontier Scientific Logan Utah ICN Biomedicals Inc. Costa Mesa Calif. Key Organics Cornwall U.K. Lancaster Synthesis Windham N.H. Maybridge Chemical Co. Ltd. Cornwall U.K. Parish Chemical Co. Orem Utah Pfaltz Bauer Inc. Waterbury Conn. Polyorganix Houston Tex. Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. Riedel de Haen AG Hanover Germany Spectrum Quality Product Inc. New Brunswick N.J. TCI America Portland Oreg. Trans World Chemicals Inc. Rockville Md. and Wako Chemicals USA Inc. Richmond Va. .

Methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art may be identified through various reference books and databases. Suitable reference books and treatises that detail the synthesis of reactants useful in the preparation of compounds and bioactive agents described herein or provide references to articles that describe the preparation include for example Synthetic Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons Inc. New York S. R. Sandler et al. Organic Functional Group Preparations 2nd Ed. Academic Press New York 1983 H. O. House Modern Synthetic Reactions 2nd Ed. W. A. Benjamin Inc. Menlo Park Calif. 1972 T. L. Gilchrist Heterocyclic Chemistry 2nd Ed. John Wiley Sons New York 1992 J. March Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Ed. Wiley Interscience New York 1992. Additional suitable reference books and treatises that detail the synthesis of reactants useful in the preparation of compounds and bioactive agents described herein or provide references to articles that describe the preparation include for example Fuhrhop J. and Penzlin G. Organic Synthesis Concepts Methods Starting Materials Second Revised and Enlarged Edition 1994 John Wiley Sons ISBN 3 527 29074 5 Hoffman R. V. Organic Chemistry An Intermediate Text 1996 Oxford University Press ISBN 0 19 509618 5 Larock R. C. Comprehensive Organic Transformations A Guide to Functional Group Preparations 2nd Edition 1999 Wiley VCH ISBN 0 471 19031 4 March J. Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Edition 1992 John Wiley Sons ISBN 0 471 60180 2 Otera J. editor Modern Carbonyl Chemistry 2000 Wiley VCH ISBN 3 527 29871 1 Patai S. Patai s 1992 Guide to the Chemistry of Functional Groups 1992 Interscience ISBN 0 471 93022 9 Quin L. D. et al. A Guide to Organophosphorus Chemistry 2000 Wiley Interscience ISBN 0 471 31824 8 Solomons T. W. G. Organic Chemistry 7th Edition 2000 John Wiley Sons ISBN 0 471 19095 0 Stowell J. C. Intermediate Organic Chemistry 2nd Edition 1993 Wiley Interscience ISBN 0 471 57456 2 Industrial Organic Chemicals Starting Materials and Intermediates An Ullmann s Encyclopedia 1999 John Wiley Sons ISBN 3 527 29645 X in 8 volumes Organic Reactions 1942 2000 John Wiley Sons in over 55 volumes and Chemistry of Functional Groups John Wiley Sons in 73 volumes.

Specific and analogous reactants may also be identified through the indices of known chemicals prepared by the Chemical Abstract Service of the American Chemical Society which are available in most public and university libraries as well as through on line databases the American Chemical Society Washington D.C. may be contacted for more details . Chemicals that are known but not commercially available in catalogs may be prepared by custom chemical synthesis houses where many of the standard chemical supply houses e.g. those listed above provide custom synthesis services. A reference for the preparation and selection of pharmaceutical salts of the compounds and bioactive agents described herein is P. H. Stahl C. G. Wermuth Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta Zurich 2002.

The following reaction schemes illustrate methods to make hydrazide compounds I.e. compounds having formula A and related structures and substructures . A person having ordinary skill in the chemical art would be able to make the compounds described herein by similar methods or other methods practiced by a person skilled in the art. In general starting components may be obtained from sources such as Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. or synthesized according to methods and techniques with which a skilled person is familiar see e.g. Smith and March 5th edition Wiley Interscience New York . The various substituents e.g. R R R R R and W and D etc. of the compounds may be attached to a starting component or reactant or to an intermediate component or reactant.

An exemplary reaction scheme for synthesis of a hydrazide compound is provided in Reaction Scheme 1. In the Scheme W of the formula A 1 is nitrogen and D of formula A 1 is nitrogen.

In general compounds of formula A are prepared by first combining an RNH Rwith diethyl oxalate or with a compound such as R substituted ethyl iodoacetate wherein Ris for example methyl. The definitions of R R R and Rare provided above. The amount of each reactant is 10 mmol. The reaction mixture is stirred overnight at elevated temperature. Upon cooling the solid material is filtered and recrystallized from hexane to yield a compound of formula B . The compound of formula B solubilized in ethanol is refluxed with 12 mmol hydrazine hydrate for about 10 hours. The solvent and excess reagent are then distilled under vacuum. The product is recrystallized from ethanol to yield the compound of formula C . The compound of formula C is then combined with a carbonyl containing reactant to which Rand Rare attached e.g. a ketone or an aldehyde in ethanol and then refluxed for about 3 hours to yield the desired compound of Formula A 1b . When Ris hydrogen ethyl iodoacetate may be combined with RNH R.

Alternatively compounds of formula A I such as A Ib wherein Ris an alkyl which may be substituted or unsubstituted saturated linear or branched can be prepared according to the following Reaction Scheme 2 wherein R R R Rand Rare as described above in the description of the bioactive agents. In this exemplary reaction scheme 2 Ris methyl.

In the above reaction scheme 2 a reactant RNHRis combined with a compound such as R substituted ethyl iodoacetate wherein Ris for example methyl. The definitions of R R R and Rare provided above. Each reactant at 10 mmol is combined with 20 mmole sodium acetate. The reaction mixture is stirred for about 3 hours at elevated temperature. Upon cooling the solid material is filtered and recrystallized from hexane to yield a compound of formula D . The compound of formula D solubilized in ethanol is refluxed with 12 mmol hydrazine hydrate for about 10 hours. The solvent and excess reagent are then distilled under vacuum. The product is recrystallized from ethanol to yield the compound of formula E . The compound of formula E is then combined with a carbonyl containing reactant to which Rand Rare attached e.g. a ketone or an aldehyde in ethanol and then refluxed for about 3 hours to yield the desired compound of Formula A 1b . When Ris hydrogen ethyl iodoacetate may be combined with RNH R.

Compounds of Formula A wherein Ris oxo each of W and B is nitrogen and Ris hydrogen can be prepared according to the following Reaction Scheme 3 wherein R R Rand Rare as described above in the description of the bioactive agents.

In general compounds of Formula A 1c are prepared by first combining reactant RNHRwith diethyl oxalate each at 10 mmol in toluene. The resulting reaction mixture is then stirred at an elevated temperature for about 3 hours. Upon cooling the solid material is filtered and recrystallized from hexane to yield the compound of formula F . A solution of the compound of formula F in ethanol is then refluxed with 12 mmol hydrazine hydrate for about 10 hours. The solvent and excess reagent are then distilled under vacuum. The product is then recrystallized from ethanol to yield the compound of formula G . The compound of formula G is then combined with a carbonyl containing reactant to which Rand Rare attached e.g. a ketone or an aldehyde in ethanol and then refluxed for a period of time of about 3 hours to yield the desired product of Formula A 1c .

Compounds of Formula A wherein each of W and B is nitrogen Ris hydrogen and Ris for example alkyl phenyl carboxy C O NHNRR C O NHN R NRR C O NHNHC S NRR C O Ror CH CH Rwherein z is 0 7 and wherein each R and Ris the same or different and independently H Calkyl cycloalkyl phenyl alkylphenyl see for example structures of formula A 2 wherein Ris hydrogen can be prepared according to the following Reaction Scheme 4. R R and are as described above in the description of the bioactive agents.

In Reaction Scheme 4 reactant RNHRis combined with diethyl bromomalonate each at 10 mmol. The resulting reaction mixture is then stirred at an elevated temperature for about 8 hours. Upon cooling the solid material is filtered and recrystallized from hexane to yield the compound of formula I . A solution of the compound of formula I in ethanol is then refluxed with 12 mmol hydrazine hydrate for about 10 hours. The solvent and excess reagent are then distilled under vacuum. The product is then recrystallized from ethanol to yield the compound of formula J . The compound of formula J is then combined with a carbonyl containing reactant to which Rand Rare attached e.g. a ketone or an aldehyde in ethanol and then refluxed for about 3 hours to yield the desired product of formula K . The compound of formula K is then combined with a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group wherein R R R and Rmay be the same or different and independently any of the substituents described in the definitions including but not limited to halo alkyl carboxyl alkoxy hydroxyl S O OR NRR etc. and refluxed for a period of time. The product is then recrystallized from ethanol to yield the compound of formula L .

The structures may be characterized and confirmed using any number of analytical techniques practiced in the art including H NMRand mass spectrometry.

Conjugation of a compound having a structure of formula A or any related structure or substructure described herein to a macromolecular moiety M via a spacer J may be performed using any number of procedures and techniques described herein and practiced by a person skilled in the art. Each of the spacer J and the macromolecular moiety M and the conjugation procedure are selected such that the potency and water solubility of the compound of formula A are not adversely affected in a significant manner. The potency such as indicated by IC and solubility of the compound may be determined in a routine manner according to methods described herein and practiced in the art.

A person skilled in the art will readily understand that the valency of a substituent of compound A e.g. R R R R or Rof a compound of formula A described herein to which the spacer J will attach adjusts to retain stability of the bioactive agent. In certain instances conjugation of the cell binding moiety via J to any one of the substituents described herein may require that an atom of the substituent be removed. For example if the first end of J attaches to a compound A at substituent R wherein Ris C O NHNRRand Rand Rare each hydrogen then one hydrogen may be removed such that the first end of J bonds to the nitrogen atom.

The first end of spacer J may be attached first to a compound of formula A and then the intermediate compound A J may be reacted with the macromolecular moiety M. Alternatively the second end of spacer J may be attached first to a macromolecular moiety M and the intermediate J M is reacted with a compound of formula A to produce the bioactive agent of formula I A J M .

An exemplary reaction scheme for attaching a compound of formula A to J to form the intermediate A J includes a reaction as described in Reaction 4 to form a compound of formula K to which the first end of J may be attached. The number n of A J intermediates that may be attached to the macromolecular moiety M may be 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or any integer between 1 and 500 1 and 400 1 and 300 1 and 250 1 and 200 1 and 100 1 and 50 1 and 25 1 and 20 1 and 15. The number of A J intermediates that may attach to a macromolecular moiety may depend in part on the nature of the macromolecular moiety. For example a synthetic polymer such as PEI or polyamidoamine for example PAMAM described herein has numerous reactive groups to which the second end of J may be attached. By contrast a peptide or a disaccharide may have only one point of attachment with which the second end of J may react. Exemplary conjugation methods are described in Examples 1 7 8 and 9.

As described herein the macromolecular moiety M is intended to encompass molecules with a molecular weight of 150 daltons such as small peptides or greater. The macromolecular moiety may be a peptide 2 3 4 5 6 10 15 or 20 amino acids a lipid PEGylated lipid fatty acid ester or a lipid like structure in which a fatty acid may be replaced by polyethylene glycol or a low molecular weight lipophilic aliphatic aromatic chain. In certain embodiments the macromolecular moiety M may be any one of a lectin a lectin mimetic a cell receptor ligand polylysine a saccharide e.g. a monosaccharide disaccharide or a polysaccharide dietary fiber an aminoglycoside an amino polysaccharide an amino dextran a synthetic polymer an antibody and a polypeptide or peptide capable of binding to associating with or in some manner interacting with a cell membrane on the basis of a biological chemical and or physical property. The macromolecular moiety interacts with associates with or binds to a cellular carbohydrate polypeptide or lipid or other macromolecule or portion thereof that is extracellular. The macromolecular moiety may interact with CFTR or with a lipid carbohydrate or cell membrane polypeptide within sufficient proximity of CFTR to permit interaction between the CFTR inhibitor moiety of the bioactive agent such that CFTR activity is inhibited. Preferably the macromolecular moiety is not transported or internalized into the cell such that the bioactive agent is also internalized or transported into the cell. A macromolecular moiety has sufficient capability to interact with the cell or with a cell surface molecule such that the bioactive agent is retained for a time sufficient at the cell surface for compound A to inhibit CFTR activity i.e. block reduce decrease transport of chloride or occlude the chloride channel or pore in a statistically or biologically significant manner with minimum absorption by the cell or wash out from the intestine.

Macromolecular moieties described herein may be obtained from commercial sources or may be chemically synthesized according to the nature of the moiety using methods practiced in the art for making a particular moiety. Alternatively macromolecular moieties that are polypeptides or peptides may be made by recombinant methods known in the art see e.g. Sambrook et al. 3d Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2001 Ausubel et al. eds. John Wiley and Sons Inc. NY 1987 . See also e.g. regarding targeting drugs to cells Schrama et al. 5 147 59 2006 Hilgenbrink et al. 94 2135 46 2005 Peelman et al. 27 218 25 2006 .

In one embodiment the macromolecular moiety is a lectin which may be a plant lectin including a legume lectin cereal lectin peanut lectin jacalin and others described herein or animal lectin e.g. a galectin C type R type calnexin calreticulin M type L type P type I type F box lectin ficolin chitinase like lectins F type intelectins . Lectins are carbohydrate binding proteins or glycoproteins that specifically bind certain sugar moieties see e.g. Loris et al. 1383 9 36 1998 Sharon and Lis 2ed. Kluwer Academic 2003 Liener et al. eds. Academic Press Inc. Orlando 1986 . The lectins useful for making and using the bioactive agents described herein may bind to CFTR or may bind to another glycoprotein or glycolipid present in the cellular outer membrane see also e.g. Bies et al. 56 425 35 2004 Clark et al. 43 207 23 2000 . Lectins that are known toxins such as ricin are excluded from the lectins described herein.

Exemplary lectins that may be used as cell binding moeities of the bioactive agents described herein include but are not limited to jack bean lectin commonly known as Concanavalin A a wheat lectin such as a wheat germ lectin e.g. from a tomato lectin e.g. from see e.g. Kilpatrick et al. 185 299 305 1985 Kilpatrick et al. 134 205 209 1983 Nachbar et al. 255 2056 61 1980 an asparagus pea lectin e.g. from a scarlet runner bean lectin a pea lectin a chick pea lectin a soybean lectin a lentil lectin a peanut lectin and a potato lectin. Any one of the lectins described herein or known in the art may be obtained from a commercial vendor or may be purified from the plant or animal source using methods practiced by a skilled artisan see e.g. Kilpatrick et al. supra Nachbar et al. supra .

In certain embodiments the cell binding moiety is a synthetic polymer. Exemplary synthetic polymers include a polyoxyalkyl polyether a polyethylene glycol PEG a polypropylene glycol a polyhydroxyethyl glycerol a dendrimer a polyalkylamine a polyalkylimine polyethyleneimine and polylysine. Synthetic polymers of differing molecular weights are available depending upon the extent of polymerization.

In one embodiment the synthetic polymer that is a macromolecular moiety M includes a dendrimer which is a regularly branched fully synthetic polymer molecule that resembles the branches of a tree see e.g. Tomalia et al. 17 117 32 1985 Jiang et al. 388 454 56 1997 . Dendrimers are nearly perfectly monodisperse i.e. consistent in size and form macromolecules that have a regular and highly branched three dimensional architecture. Dendrimers have a high degree of molecular uniformity narrow molecular weight distribution specific size and shape characteristics and a highly functionalized terminal surface. The architectural components may be referred to as the core branches and end or terminal groups. The functional groups at the terminal surface can be attached to the second of the spacer J described herein. The term generation relates to the manufacturing process by which dendrimers are made and indicates the size and branching complexity of the dendrimer. Dendrimers are manufactured according to a series of repetitive steps starting with a central initiator core and each subsequent growth step represents a new generation of polymer with a larger molecular diameter twice the number of reactive surface sites and approximately double the molecular weight of the preceding generation. In one embodiment a dendrimer is a PAMAM dendrimer Dendritech Inc. Midland Mich. which represents a class of macromolecular architecture also called dense star polymers.

In another embodiment the synthetic polymer is a polyalkylamine such as polyethyleneimine PEI which is known to bind to cells. A monomer of ethyleneimine consists of a three membered ring with a formula of CHN. In a polyethyleneimine a monomer has two corners of the molecule consisting of CH linkages and the third corner is a secondary amine group NH. In the presence of a catalyst this monomer is converted into a highly branched polymer with about 25 primary amine groups 50 secondary amine groups and 25 tertiary amine groups. Thus the polymer has an overall positive charge. In still another embodiment the synthetic polymer is a polylysine which has an overall positive charge. The polylysine may be a poly L lysine or a poly D lysine. When a synthetic polymer is conjugated to a CFTR inhibitor compound described herein the bioactive agent may be positively charged negatively charged or may be zwitterionic in nature.

In certain embodiments the macromolecular moiety is a cell receptor ligand or an antibody. Exemplary cell receptor ligands include transferrin or a carbohydrate that will bind to a lectin expressed by a gastrointestinal cell that expresses CFTR. For example the macromolecular moiety of the bioactive agent may be lactose which is capable of binding to an endogenous lectin. The ligand or antibody or other polypeptide may interact with CFTR or with a lipid carbohydrate or cell membrane polypeptide within sufficient proximity of CFTR to permit interaction between the CFTR inhibitor moiety of the bioactive agent such that CFTR activity is inhibited.

Antibodies that may be useful as macromolecular moieties include antibodies that specifically bind to a cell surface polypeptide such as a cell receptor or that specifically bind to CFTR or to a protein that co expresses with CFTR. Antibodies that bind to cell receptors and to CFTR may be obtained from a commercial source or may be prepared according to methods routinely practiced in the art 1 2.5.1 2.6.7 John Wiley Sons 1991 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 902 614 4 543 439 and 4 411 993 Plenum Press Kennett et al. eds. 1980 and Harlow and Lane eds. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1988 WO 92 02551 U.S. Pat. No. 5 627 052 Babcook et al. 93 7843 48 1996 Winter et al. 12 433 55 1994 Burton et al. 57 191 280 1994 U.S. Pat. No. 5 223 409 Huse et al. 246 1275 81 1989 . The antibody is preferably a fully human humanized or a chimeric antibody with a human Fc portion or may be an antigen binding fragment thereof for example Fab Fab F ab or an Fv or a single chain Fv antigen binding fragment. If desired the Fc portion of an antibody may be genetically engineered to reduce Fc binding to receptors on immune cells or to reduce complement activating activity see e.g. Wines et al. 164 5313 18 2000 Chappel et al. 88 9036 1991 Canfield et al. 173 1483 1991 Duncan et al 332 563 64 1988 Morgan et al. 86 319 24 1995 .

Peptides that may be used as a macromolecular moiety include peptides that bind to or interact with a cell outer membrane or a component thereof. The peptide may interact with CFTR or with a lipid carbohydrate or polypeptide within sufficient proximity of CFTR to permit interaction between the CFTR inhibitor moiety of the bioactive agent such that CFTR activity is inhibited. Peptides that may be used as the macromolecular moiety may be derived from ligands that react with cell receptors. Alternatively peptides may be identified from screening combinatorial peptide libraries.

A macromolecular moiety that may be conjugated to a CFTR inhibitor compound includes a peptide known to interact with the cell membrane. Such a peptide include penetratin PEN and TAT derived from the HIV 1 TAT protein see e.g. Tseng et al. 62 864 72 2002 Richard et al. 278 585 90 2003 Epub 2002 Oct. 30 . Without wishing to be bound by theory a peptide that is capable of binding to a cell membrane may be useful because of its membrane binding capability and yet when conjugated to a CFTR inhibitor does not enter the cell.

The bioactive agents described herein are capable of blocking or impeding the CFTR pore or channel and inhibiting ion transport by CFTR located in the outer cell membrane of a cell. Also provided herein are methods of inhibiting ion transport by CFTR which comprises contacting a cell that has CFTR in the outer membrane with any one of the bioactive agents described herein under conditions and for a time sufficient for the CFTR and the compound to interact. Bioactive agents may be identified and or characterized by such a method of inhibiting ion transport by CFTR performed with isolated cells in vitro. Conditions for a particular assay include temperature buffers including salts cations media and other components that maintain the integrity of the cell and the bioactive agent which a person skilled in the art will be familiar and or which can be readily determined. A person skilled in the art also readily appreciates that appropriate controls can be designed and included when performing the in vitro methods described herein.

Methods for characterizing a bioactive agent such as determining an effective concentration may be performed using techniques and procedures described herein and routinely practiced by a person skilled in the art. Exemplary methods include short circuit apical chloride ion current measurements and patch clamp analysis see e.g. Muanprasat et al. 124 125 37 2004 Ma et al. 110 1651 58 2002 see also e.g. Carmeliet 55 5 26 1993 Hamill et al. 391 85 100 1981 . The bioactive agents may also be analyzed in animal models for example a closed intestinal loop model of cholera suckling mouse model of cholera and in vivo imaging of gastrointestinal transit see e.g. Takeda et al. 19 752 54 1978 .

As described herein the bioactive agents are capable of inhibiting CFTR activity i.e. inhibiting reducing decreasing blocking transport of chloride ion in the CFTR channel or pore in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner in a cell and may be used for treating diseases disorders and conditions that result from or are related to aberrantly increased CFTR activity. Accordingly methods of inhibiting ion transport by CFTR are provided herein that comprise contacting a cell e.g. a gastrointestinal cell that comprises CFTR in the outer membrane of the cell i.e. a cell that expresses CFTR and has channels or pores formed by CFTR in the cell membrane with any one or more of the bioactive agents described herein under conditions and for a time sufficient for CFTR and the compound to interact.

The cell may be obtained from a subject or from a biological sample. A biological sample may be a blood sample from which serum or plasma may be prepared and cells isolated biopsy specimen body fluids e.g. lung lavage ascites mucosal washings synovial fluid bone marrow lymph nodes tissue explant organ culture or any other tissue or cell preparation from a subject or a biological source. A sample may further refer to a tissue or cell preparation in which the morphological integrity or physical state has been disrupted for example by dissection dissociation solubilization fractionation homogenization biochemical or chemical extraction pulverization lyophilization sonication or any other means for processing a sample derived from a subject or biological source. The subject or biological source may be a human or non human animal a primary cell culture e.g. immune cells virus infected cells or culture adapted cell line including but not limited to genetically engineered cell lines that may contain chromosomally integrated or episomal recombinant nucleic acid sequences immortalized or immortalizable cell lines somatic cell hybrid cell lines differentiated or differentiable cell lines transformed cell lines and the like.

Diseases and disorders that may be treated by administering a bioactive agent described herein include aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion such as secretory diarrhea. Secretory diarrhea can result from exposure to a variety of enteropathogenic organisms i.e. enteric pathogen including without limitation bacteria such as cholera particularly enterotoxigenic ETEC parasites e.g. and diarrheal viruses e.g. rotavirus Group A and Group C norovirus sapovirus . Secretory diarrhea may also be a disorder or sequelae associated with food poisoning or exposure to a toxin including an enterotoxin such as cholera toxin a toxin a toxin a toxin or a toxin.

Other secretory diarrheas that may be treated by administering the bioactive agents described herein include diarrhea associated with or that is a sequelae of AIDS diarrhea that is a condition related to the effects of anti AIDS medications such as protease inhibitors diarrhea that is a condition or is related to administration of chemotherapeutic compounds inflammatory gastrointestinal disorders such as ulcerative colitis inflammatory bowel disease IBD Crohn s disease diverticulosis and the like. Intestinal inflammation modulates the expression of three major mediators of intestinal salt transport and may contribute to diarrhea in ulcerative colitis both by increasing transepithelial Cl secretion and by inhibiting the epithelial NaCl absorption see e.g. Lohi et al. 283 G567 75 2002 .

Methods are provided herein for treating a disease or disorder associated with aberrantly increased ion transport by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR wherein the methods comprise administering to a subject any one or more bioactive agent described herein wherein ion transport particularly chloride ion transport by CFTR is inhibited. A subject in need of such treatment includes humans and non human animals. Non human animals that may be treated include mammals for example non human primates e.g. monkey chimpanzee gorilla and the like rodents e.g. rats mice gerbils hamsters ferrets rabbits lagomorphs swine e.g. pig miniature pig equine canine feline bovine and other domestic farm and zoo animals.

The bioactive agents may be formulated in a pharmaceutical composition for use in treatment which includes preventive treatment of a disease or disorder manifested by increased intestinal fluid secretion such as secretory diarrhea. A pharmaceutical composition may be a sterile aqueous or non aqueous solution suspension or emulsion which additionally comprises a physiologically acceptable excipient pharmaceutically acceptable or suitable excipient or carrier i.e. a non toxic material that does not interfere with the activity of the active ingredient . Such compositions may be in the form of a solid liquid or gas aerosol . Alternatively compositions described herein may be formulated as a lyophilizate or compounds may be encapsulated within liposomes using technology known in the art. Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other components which may be biologically active or inactive. Such components include but are not limited to buffers e.g. neutral buffered saline or phosphate buffered saline carbohydrates e.g. glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione stabilizers dyes flavoring agents and suspending agents and or preservatives.

Any suitable excipient or carrier known to those of ordinary skill in the art for use in pharmaceutical compositions may be employed in the compositions described herein. Excipients for therapeutic use are well known and are described for example in Gennaro 21Ed. Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. 2005 . In general the type of excipient is selected based on the mode of administration. Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated for any appropriate manner of administration including for example topical oral nasal intrathecal rectal vaginal intraocular subconjunctival sublingual or parenteral administration including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intrasternal intracavernous intrameatal or intraurethral injection or infusion. For parenteral administration the carrier preferably comprises water saline alcohol a fat a wax or a buffer. For oral administration any of the above excipients or a solid excipient or carrier such as mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine talcum cellulose kaolin glycerin starch dextrins sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose glucose sucrose and or magnesium carbonate may be employed.

A pharmaceutical composition e.g. for oral administration or delivery by injection may be in the form of a liquid. A liquid pharmaceutical composition may include for example one or more of the following a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils that may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents antioxidants chelating agents buffers and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. The use of physiological saline is preferred and an injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A composition comprising any one of the bioactive agents having a structure of formula I or subformulae I a I h as described herein such as a malonic hydrazide compound conjugated to a macromolecular moiety such as a lectin may be formulated for sustained or slow release. Such compositions may generally be prepared using well known technology and administered by for example oral rectal or subcutaneous implantation or by implantation at the desired target site. Sustained release formulations may contain an agent dispersed in a carrier matrix and or contained within a reservoir surrounded by a rate controlling membrane. Excipients for use within such formulations are biocompatible and may also be biodegradable preferably the formulation provides a relatively constant level of active component release. The amount of active compound contained within a sustained release formulation depends upon the site of implantation the rate and expected duration of release and the nature of the condition to be treated or prevented.

The dose of the composition for treating a disease or disorder associated with aberrant CFTR function including but not limited to intestinal fluid secretion secretory diarrhea such as a toxin induced diarrhea or secretory diarrhea associated with or a sequelae of an enteropathogenic infection Traveler s diarrhea ulcerative colitis irritable bowel syndrome IBS AIDS chemotherapy and other diseases or conditions described herein may be determined according to parameters understood by a person skilled in the medical art. Accordingly the appropriate dose may depend upon the subject s condition that is stage of the disease general health status as well as age gender and weight and other factors considered by a person skilled in the medical art.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in a manner appropriate to the disease or disorder to be treated as determined by persons skilled in the medical arts. An appropriate dose and a suitable duration and frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the condition of the patient the type and severity of the patient s disease the particular form of the active ingredient and the method of administration. In general an appropriate dose or effective dose and treatment regimen provides the composition s in an amount sufficient to provide therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit e.g. an improved clinical outcome such as more frequent complete or partial remissions or longer disease free and or overall survival or a lessening of symptom severity . Clinical assessment of the level of dehydration and or electrolyte imbalance may be performed to determine the level of effectiveness of a bioactive agent and whether dose or other administration parameters such as frequency of administration or route of administration should be adjusted.

Optimal doses may generally be determined using experimental models and or clinical trials. The optimal dose may depend upon the body mass weight or blood volume of the subject. In general the amount of a small molecule compound conjugate as described herein that is present in a dose ranges from about 0.01 g to about 1000 g per kg weight of the host. The use of the minimum dose that is sufficient to provide effective therapy is usually preferred. Subjects may generally be monitored for therapeutic effectiveness using assays suitable for the condition being treated or prevented which assays will be familiar to those having ordinary skill in the art and are described herein.

Other embodiments and uses will be apparent to one skilled in the art in light of the present disclosures. The following examples are provided merely as illustrative of various embodiments and shall not be construed to limit the invention in any way.

A malonic acid hydrazide intermediate that is formed during the synthesis of highly polar malonic acid hydrazides see Sonawane et al 20 130 32 2006 was reacted with the homo bifunctional crosslinker DIDS to yield the reactive CFTR inhibitor MalH DIDS. The DIDS linker is very polar and relatively rigid which renders MalH DIDS highly water soluble. MalH DIDS was conjugated to several lectins and to albumin as a control in an alkaline carbonate buffer and then purified by gel filtration affinity chromatography and or dialysis.

2 naphthalenylamino 3 5 dibromo 4 dihydroxyphenyl methylene hydrazide 4 2 4 isothiocyanato 2 sulfophenypethenyl 2 sulfophenyl amino thioxomethyl hydrazide propanedioic acid disodium salt MalH DIDS A mixture of dihydrazide intermediate 4 Sonawane et al 2006 supra 5 mmol and 4 4 diisothiocyanatostilbene 2 2 disulfonic acid disodium salt hydrate 15 mmol in DMF 5 ml was refluxed for 4 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was added dropwise to a stirred solution of EtOAc EtOH 1 1 filtered washed with ethanol and further purified by column chromatography to give MalH DIDS 43 as a pale yellow solid.

The MalH DIDS compound had the following properties mp 300 C. H NMR DMSO d 4.98 5.63 d 1H J 9.88 8.51 Hz COCH 6.33 6.51 m 1H Ar H 6.71 6.84 m 1H Ar H 7.03 7.37 m 4H Ar H Ar NH 7.42 7.65 m 4H Ar H 7.77 7.92 m 3H Ar H 7.98 8.11 m 1H 8.93 s 1H 9.13 9.15 9.21 three s 1H 11.62 11.70 two s 1H 11.98 12.00 12.21 s 1H . All signals between 8.93 12.21 and 4.98 5.63 were DO exchangeable MS ES m z M 1 calculated for CHBrNOS 987.71. found 986.44.

MalH DIDS was then conjugated to different lectins. The following lectins were purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. concanavalin A ConA agglutinin from jack beans wheat germ from tomato from and asparagus pea from Lotus . Each lectin 100 nM in 1 ml 50 mM carbonate buffer pH 8 9 was combined with MalH DIDS 600 nM in 150 mM ml carbonate buffer pH 8 9 and each reaction was stirred slowly at room temperature for 30 60 minutes. Unreacted MalH DIDS was removed either by gel filtration Sephadex G25 NAP 5 or NAP 10 columns or by dialysis against PBS. For some preparations MalH lectin conjugates were further purified by affinity column chromatography using D mannose agarose Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . According to molar absorbance data MalH DIDS protein ratios were 3.8 1 MalH ConA 3.2 1 MalH wheat 4.2 1 MalH tomato and 3.4 1 MalH asparagus pea . LC MS analysis showed absence of unconjugated MalH DIDS.

For TMR labeling MalH ConA was reacted with tetramethylrhodamine succinimidyl ester Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. 1 3 mole mole in carbonate buffer pH 8.5 for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was then purified by gel filtration Sephadex G25 in a NAP 5 or NAP 10 column GE Healthcare . Some preparations were further purified by affinity chromatography as described above.

This Example describes that the lectin moiety of a MalH lectin conjugate binds to cell surface carbohydrates and that the conjugate inhibits the activity of CFTR.

T84 a human carcinoma line colonic epithelial cells American Type Culture Collection ATCC Manassas Va. and Fischer rat thyroid FRT epithelial cells that stably expressed human wildtype CFTR were cultured on Snapwell filters with 1 cmsurface area Coming Costar to resistance 1 000 cmas described see e.g. Muanprasat et al. 124 125 37 2004 Ma et al. 110 1651 58 2002 Zegarra Moran et al. 137 504 512 2002 . Filters were mounted in an Easymount Chamber System Physiologic Instruments San Diego . When apical Cl current measurements were determined in FRT cells the basolateral hemichamber contained the following buffer 130 mM NaCl 2.7 mM KCl 1.5 mM KHPO 1 mM CaCl 0.5 mM MgCl 10 mM Na HEPES 10 mM glucose pH 7.3 . The basolateral membrane was permeabilized with amphotericin B 250 g ml for 30 min. In the apical solution 65 mM NaCl was replaced by sodium gluconate and CaClwas increased to 2 mM. Short circuit current in T84 cells was measured without amphotericin B or a transepithelial Cl gradient. Solutions were bubbled with 95 O 5 COand maintained at 37 C. Current was recorded using a DVC 1000 voltage clamp World Precision Instruments Sarasota Fla. using Ag AgCl electrodes and 1 M KCl agar bridges.

CFTR inhibition was measured in FRT epithelial cells that expressed human wildtype CFTR. shows concentration dependent inhibition of CFTR mediated apical membrane chloride current by MalH ConA and MalH wheat which was added to the solution that bathed the apical cell surface. CFTR chloride current was inhibited by MalH ConA at an ICof 50 100 nM and by MalH wheat at an ICof 100 300 nM complete inhibition was observed at higher concentrations. Unconjugated MalH DIDS inhibited CFTR chloride current rapidly but at an ICof 1000 nM see . Without wishing to be bound by theory the substantial improvement in inhibition potency of MalH ConA compared with the unconjugated malonic hydrazide may be due to anchoring of the ConA lectin moiety to the cell membrane carbohydrates that comprise the cell surface glycocalyx. Inhibition of CFTR activity by the negative controls ConA alone or by a MalH albumin conjugate is also shown in . Other MalH lectin conjugates MalH tomato from agglutinin and MalH asparagus asparagus pea from agglutinin also exhibited submicromolar ICvalues of 240 and 320 nM respectively.

This Example describes that the increased effectiveness of MalH lectin conjugates to inhibit CFTR transport activity results from binding of the lectin moiety of a MalH lectin conjugate to carbohydrate.

Carbohydrate binding to lectins is generally preserved following conjugation with various small molecules see e.g. Gunther et al. 70 1012 1973 Gabor et al. 56 459 80 2004 Smart J. D. 56 481 89 2004 . To show that the high CFTR inhibition potency of MalH ConA was due to lectin carbohydrate binding competition studies using unconjugated ConA was performed. Short circuit current experiments were performed as described in Example 2. Addition of excess ConA 5 M greatly reduced the potency of subsequently added MalH ConA. Representative apical membrane current data are shown in the left panel of and the average concentration inhibition data are summarized in the right panel. For comparison experiments were performed with MalH DIDS in the absence and presence of 5 M ConA. The concentration inhibition data for MalH DIDS are presented in right panel . ConA pretreatment did not affect MalH DIDS potency. Inhibition of chloride current by MalH ConA was determined in the presence of 20 or 200 mM mannose. As shown in reduced MalH ConA inhibition potency was observed after disruption of ConA carbohydrate binding by 20 mM and 200 mM mannose. However 200 mM mannose did not affect the CFTR inhibitory potency of MalH DIDS right panel .

The effect of binding of ConA with carbohydrate to the potency of the MalH lectin conjugate also was determined in experiments in which ConA was denatured. ConA is a tetramer at pH 7 and higher and a dimer at pH below 6 see e.g. Mandal et al. 32 5116 20 1993 . Each ConA monomer molecular weight 26 500 contains a single saccharide binding site a transition metal ion binding site and a Ca binding site Brewer et al. 22 3691 702 1983 Goldstein et al. 4 876 1964 . In pH denaturation experiments MalH ConA was incubated overnight at pH 5.2 resulting in significant reduction in MalH ConA inhibition potency see top . Denaturation of ConA at very low pH 1.5 for 15 30 min completely abolished the capability of MalH ConA to inhibit CFTR. Incubations of MalH DIDS at either pH 1.5 or pH 5.2 did not affect the capability of MalH DIDS to inhibit CFTR see top . Denaturation of MalH ConA by heat 100 C. for 5 min abolished its CFTR inhibition activity see middle whereas heat treatment did not affect inhibition of CFTR by MalH DIDS see middle . Similar results were observed for MalH wheat MalH conjugated to wheat germ lectin and MalH tomato MalH conjugated to tomato lectin when each was heat denatured resulting in complete loss in the capability of either conjugate to inhibit CFTR.

Short circuit current experiments were also performed after treating MalH ConA with pronase and after incubation in EDTA. A sample of MalH ConA was digested with pronase for 8 hours at pH 8 and at 37 C. according to the method described in Doyle et al. 29 265 70 1973 . Denaturation of ConA was confirmed by SDS PAGE. The pronase denatured compound did not inhibit CFTR bottom whereas the potency of similarly treated MalH DIDS was not affected bottom . Lastly ConA binding to carbohydrate was reduced by chelation of divalent cations Ca and Mg see e.g. Goldstein et al. supra Sumner et al. 115 583 1936 . EDTA greatly reduced ConA MalH inhibition potency as shown in bottom. Treatment of MalH DIDS with EDTA did not affect the potency of MalH DIDS. The concentration inhibition data for each point is the mean SE of measurements for 3 8 cell culture samples.

The voltage sensitivity of blocking CFTR by MalH ConA was measured by whole cell patch clamp. Patch clamp experiments were carried out at room temperature on FRT cells that stably expressed wildtype CFTR. Whole cell and outside out configurations were used see e.g. Hamill et al. 391 85 100 1981 . For whole cell experiments the pipette solution contained 120 mM CsCl 10 mM TEA Cl 0.5 mM EGTA 1 mM MgCl 40 mM mannitol 10 mM Cs HEPES and 3 mM MgATP pH 7.3 . For outside out patches the pipette solution contained 50 mM N methyl D glucamine chloride NMDG Cl 2 mM MgCl 10 mM EGTA 10 mM Hepes 1 mM ATP pH 7.3 . This pipette solution was supplemented with 125 nM catalytic subunit of protein kinase A. The bath solution in all experiments was 150 mM NaCl 1 mM CaCl 1 mM MgCl 10 mM glucose 10 mM mannitol 10 mM Na Hepes pH 7.4 . The cell membrane was clamped at specified voltages using an EPC 7 patch clamp amplifier List Medical . Data were filtered at 500 Hz whole cell or 200 Hz outside out and digitized at 1000 Hz using an Instrutech ITC 16 AD DA interface InstruTECH Port Washington N.Y. and the PULSE software HEKA Instruments Inc. Southboro Mass. . Inhibitors were applied by extracellular perfusion.

Membrane currents were induced at different membrane potentials from 100 to 100 mV in 20 mV steps. Currents were recorded under resting conditions after CFTR activation with 20 M forskolin and following addition of 250 nM MalH ConA. Kinetics of blocking by MalH ConA 250 nM were compared with GlyH 101 5 M after stepping the membrane potential to 80 mV. As shown in CFTR stimulation by forskolin produced typical CFTR membrane currents with a linear current voltage relationship middle panel . MalH ConA 250 nM produced a voltage dependent block of CFTR current lower panel with greater inhibition of membrane current at positive membrane potentials as shown in . This inward rectification behavior is similar to the behavior observed for GlyH 101 N naphthalenyl 3 5 dibromo 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl methylene glycine hydrazide see U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0239740 at much higher concentrations. Similar inward rectification was found for MalH tomato. The kinetics of block and unblock of CFTR current by MalH ConA was seen from the relaxations produced by the voltage steps. Changes in membrane potential to more positive values produced a time dependent decrease in current with time dependent activation seen when stepping the membrane potential to negative values. The kinetics of current relaxations were considerably slower than those observed with GlyH 101 inset . The current decay with MalH ConA fitted to a single exponential function with time constant of 150 200 ms much faster than that of 8 10 ms found for GlyH 101. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory the slower kinetics of block and unblock by MalH ConA compared with GlyH 101 may reflect the larger size of MalH ConA and the possibility that the lectin conjugate interacts at multiple sites with surface carbohydrates retarding its access to and exit from the pore.

Single channel recordings were done to evaluate MalH ConA block at the microscopic level. Because MalH ConA does not cross the plasma membrane the outside out configuration of the patch clamp technique was used to allow access to the extracellular side of membrane. CFTR was activated by inclusion of ATP and the catalytic subunit of protein kinase A in the pipette cytosolic side solution. Addition of MalH ConA 100 nM to membrane patches reduced CFTR Cl conductance with shortening of open time duration as shown in . The mean open time decreased from 795 94 to 51 10 ms.

Following forskolin stimulation of CFTR chloride current in the whole cell patch clamp assay cells were incubated with MalH DIDS or MalH ConA to achieve 95 100 inhibition followed by washout and forskolin re addition see . Near complete and rapid reversal of CFTR inhibition was seen in cells incubated with MalH DIDS whereas limited and slow reversal over six hours was observed when cells were incubated with MalH ConA. The kinetics of reversal of CFTR inhibition by MalH ConA was also studied by measuring apical membrane chloride current at different times after PBS wash. Cells were treated with 300 nM MalH ConA for 15 min washed thoroughly with PBS and assayed for apical membrane chloride current at different times. Chloride current increased slowly with incubation time with 50 reversal at approximately 8 h.

The reversibility of MalH ConA binding to cells was determined directly by imaging cell fluorescence after incubating the cells with TMR labeled MalH ConA see Example 1 followed by washing. The TMR conjugation procedure did not affect MalH ConA inhibition potency. shows TMR fluorescence images of FRT cells after labeling at 4 C. for 3 min with MalH TMR ConA 100 g ml and washed with PBS for 5 or 30 min or following addition of 200 mM mannose. Fluorescence images were also taken after cells were preincubated with ConA prior to labeling.

Little reduction in fluorescence was seen after PBS washout but greater than 35 reduction was observed after the mannose wash. Addition of excess of free ConA prior to TMR MalH ConA labeling abolished most of the signal. summarizes relative cell TMR fluorescence measured at various washout times and conditions and for ConA or mannose pre incubation.

MalH ConA washout in vivo was investigated in small suckling mice by whole body fluorescence imaging. In vivo imaging of gastrointestinal transit was performed using Balb C mice age 3 4 days that were gavaged with solutions containing epi fluorescent TMR dextran or TMR MalH ConA. At specified times the mice were anesthetized with isoflurane. Whole body epifluorescence images were collected using a Kodak model 4000 multimodal imaging system equipped with an excitation emission bandpass filters at 535 and 600 nm respectively. Exposure time was 5 min. Images were acquired at different times following gavage with TMR MalH ConA or TMR dextran each together with cholera toxin to increase intestinal transit. shows that TMR MalH ConA remained concentrated in the intestine for up to 9 h over which time the fluorescence of TMR dextran was largely gone. These observations support the conclusion from cell studies that the lectin conjugates are relatively resistant to washout.

This Example describes that MalH ConA inhibits intestinal fluid secretion that is induced by cholera toxin.

MalH ConA and MalH wheat inhibited short circuit current in non permeabilized T84 cells after CFTR stimulation see Example 2 . CFTR was activated by the addition of forskolin to T84 cells after epithelial sodium channel EnaC inhibition by amiloride in absence of chloride gradient. As shown in the ICof MalH ConA was approximately 200 nM and the ICof MalH wheat was approximately 400 nM. Nearly complete inhibition was observed at 1 M of the lectin conjugates.

The capability of MalH lectin to inhibit intestinal fluid secretion was examined in mice using a closed intestinal midjejunal loop model of cholera. Mice CD1 strain 28 34 g were deprived of food for 24 h but given 5 sucrose in water ad libitum and then anaesthetized with 2.5 avertin intraperitoneally. Body temperature of the animals was maintained at 36 38 C. by applying a heating pad. A small abdominal incision was made and three closed mid jejunal loops length 15 20 mm were isolated by sutures. Loops were injected with 100 l of PBS or PBS containing cholera toxin 1 g without or with test compounds. The abdominal incision was closed with suture and mice were allowed to recover from anesthesia. At 6 h the mice were anesthetized intestinal loops were removed and loop length and weight were measured to quantify net fluid accumulation. In some experiments intestinal fluid absorption without cholera toxin was measured by injection of loops with 100 L phosphate buffered saline containing 10 mM glucose with or without test compounds and the fluid remaining at 20 min was measured by the difference in weight of intact and empty loop. Mice were sacrificed by an overdose of avertin. All protocols were approved by the University of California at San Francisco Committee on Animal Research.

Loops were injected with saline or with cholera toxin containing different concentrations of MalH ConA or MalH wheat. Intestinal fluid accumulation at 6 h was measured. The data are presented in . A loop weight to length ratio of approximately 0.07 g cm corresponding to 100 inhibition was observed when the intestinal loops were injected with PBS and a loop weight to length ratio of approximately 0.22 g cm corresponding to 0 inhibition was measured in cholera toxin injected loops. MalH ConA and MalH wheat inhibited loop secretion in a dose dependent manner with ECof approximately 50 mol loop and 100 mol loop respectively. Intestinal fluid absorption was also measured as described Thiagarajah et al. 126 511 19 2004 in which the amount of glucose containing fluid absorbed in 20 min from closed intestinal loops was determined. Absorption was not significantly impaired by 500 nM MalH ConA 44 4 vs. 41 3 .

Antidiarrheal studies were performed using a suckling mouse model of cholera. Equal numbers of newborn Balb C mice from the same mother s each weighing 2 3 g age 3 4 days were gavaged using PE 10 tubing with 10 g cholera toxin in a 50 L volume containing 50 mM Tris 200 mM NaCl and 0.08 Evans blue pH 7.5 with or without MalH ConA or MalH wheat at 125 mol as modified from prior protocols see Takeda et al. 19 752 754 1978 . Some control mice were gavaged with buffer alone. Successful gastrointestinal gavage was confirmed by Evans blue localization. Mouse survival was determined hourly.

In initial studies the mouse strain gavage conditions and cholera toxin dose were optimized to produce mortality in most cholera toxin treated mice within 12 h with no mortality in control mice at 24 h. Suckling Balb C mice were gavaged with either vehicle or cholera toxin solution with or without MalH ConA or MalH wheat. As summarized in all mice gavaged with vehicle alone survived to 24 h whereas nearly all cholera toxin treated mice died over this time. Inclusion of either MalH ConA or MalH wheat significantly improved survival in the cholera toxin treated mice p

This Example describes conjugation of a 4 chlorophenyl malonic hydrazide compound via DIDS to Concanavalin A wheat lectin and tomato lectin.

The following reaction scheme was used for preparing the conjugates. Conjugation was performed similarly to the method described in Example 1. Reagents and conditions included a Ethyl bromo malonate triethylamine TEA ethanol reflux 8 hr 55 b hydrazine methanol reflux 2 h 68 c 3 4 dibromo 4 hydroxybenzaldehyde ethanol reflux 2 hr 57 d 4 4 diisothiocyanatostilbene 2 2 disulfonic acid TEA reflux 2 h 44 e lectin pH 8.5 100 mM carbonate 3 h.

Cl Ph MalH refers to the malonic acid hydrazide compound having 4 chlorophenyl as the Rsubstituent as shown in the reaction scheme. This compound was conjugated to Concanavalin A D wheat germ lectin B or tomato lectin C . D refers to Cl Ph MalH conjugated to the linker DIDS. The capability of these conjugates to inhibit CFTR activity was determined in a Ussing chamber. The data are presented in .

Malonic acid hydrazide compounds were attached at multiple sites to the dendrimer PAMAM Dendritech Inc. Midland Mich. . The reaction scheme is shown below. Reagents and conditions included as follows a triethyl amine TEA ethanol reflux 8 hr 59 . Short circuit current experiments were then performed with the MalH PAMAM conjugate as described in Example 2. The MalH PAMAM bioactive agent inhibited CFTR activity. The R attached to PAMAM indicates the R structure shown in the box.

Dendrimers conjugated to a hydrazide compound are also prepared according to the reaction scheme below using an ethylene spacer linker.

A Mal H polyethyleneimine PEI conjugate is also prepared. The spacer J having the structure J30 is used to link the MalH compound to PEI as shown in the reaction schematic below. Reagents and conditions a triethyl amine TEA ethanol reflux 8 hr. The R attached to PEI indicates R structure shown in the box.

A general reaction scheme for a hydrazide compound disclosed herein that is conjugated to a polymer is shown below. Reagents and conditions for the reaction include a polymers PEI PAMAM triethyl amine TEA ethanol reflux 6 9 hrs.

A photoactivatable form of a hydrazide compound is prepared according to the following conditions and reaction scheme shown below. The reaction scheme is shown below. The compound 4 azidophenyl isothiocyante acts as a hetero bi functional linker.

Reagents and conditions a Methyl bromo malonate triethyl amine TEA Ethanol reflux 8 hr 64 b Hydrazine Methanol Reflux 2 h 62 c 3 4 dibromo 4 hydroxybenzaldehyde ethanol reflux 2 hr 44 d 4 azidophenyl isothiocyante TEA reflux 2 h 43 e macromolecule UV 5 min.

All the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims. In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly the claims are not limited by the disclosure.

