---

title: System and method for integrated workforce and analytics
abstract: Systems and methods of integrating workforce management and contacts analysis are disclosed. An exemplary method comprises receiving content data derived from classification of a plurality of recorded agent contacts. The contact content data is correlated with past time period. The method also comprises identifying at least one pattern in the contact content data. The pattern is based on the contact classifications. The method also comprises receiving historical workload data from a contact router, and generating a workload forecast based on the historical workload data and the identified pattern.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08396732&OS=08396732&RS=08396732
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 08396732
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070502
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 798 683 filed May 8 2006 and hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The business of a contact center is to provide rapid and efficient interaction between agents and customers or prospective customers . Existing solutions require the purchase of multiple hardware and software components typically from different vendors to achieve the business goals of the contact center. The use of separate systems of components leads to a variety of problems. For instance each system typically has its own method of configuration and its own user interface. Thus exchanging data between the systems requires additional work by someone at the contact center.

Furthermore contact centers are continually tasked with striking a balance between service quality efficiency effectiveness revenue generation cost cutting and profitability. As a result today s contact center agents are charged with mastering multiple data sources and systems delivering consistent service across customer touch points up selling cross selling and saving at risk customers while winning new ones.

The systems and methods described herein provide integrated solutions for performing workforce management and analysis of recorded interactions. Combining these two functionalities as a unified integrated solution delivered through a single platform enables users to gain more insight and make smarter decisions faster about sales service and overall operations. This takes contact center tools beyond the traditional suite approach to a true single workforce optimization platform.

As can be seen while each technology segment delivers value integration is the key together the segments deliver greater impact than the sum of their individual parts. Utilizing them separately limits the contact center s potential to become a strategic business asset.

Systems and methods of integrating workforce management and contacts analysis are disclosed. An exemplary method comprises receiving content data derived from classification of a plurality of recorded agent contacts. The contact content data is correlated with past time period. The method also comprises identifying at least one pattern in the contact content data. The pattern is based on the contact classifications. The method also comprises receiving historical workload data from a contact router and generating a workload forecast based on the historical workload data and the identified pattern.

Another exemplary method comprises monitoring a stream of application events from an application monitor. Each event associated with agent workstation activity. The method also comprises determining a count of agent work units represented by the application event stream. The method also comprises receiving historical workload data from a contact router and generating a workload forecast based on the historical workload data and the count of agent work units.

Another exemplary method comprises capturing a plurality of contacts made by an agent. The method also comprises analyzing at least a portion of the contacts to derive contact description information. The method also comprises displaying a timeline. The method also comprises displaying in visual correlation with the timeline a plurality of activities performed by the agent. At least a portion of the activities are associated with one of the captured contacts. The method also comprises displaying for those activities associated with one of the captured contacts the contact attribute. The contact attribute is displayed in visual proximity to the activity.

A contact router distributes incoming contacts to available agents. When the contacts are made by traditional phone lines the contact router operates by connecting outside trunk lines to agent trunk lines . In this environment the contact router may be implemented by an automatic call distributor ACD which queues calls until a suitable agent is available. Other types of contacts such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP calls and computer based contacts e.g. chat email are routed over one or more data networks. These contacts are distributed over network to one of the agent workstations .

During a customer contact the agent interacts with one or more applications running on the workstation . Example workstation applications give the agent access to customer records product information ordering status and transaction history for example. The applications may access one or more business databases not shown via the network .

A contact recorder provides the ability to capture or record contacts of many different types including traditional and IP telephony environments text chat web collaboration email and fax. A recorded contact may consist of multiple streams of data. One stream may be considered a content stream on a voice call the content stream is a digitized voice stream on a text chat contact the content stream is text.

While on a call with a customer the agent interacts with one or more applications running on the workstation . Examples are applications that give the agent access to customer records product information ordering status transaction history etc. The applications may access one or more enterprise databases not shown via the network .

The contact center also includes a computer implemented integrated contact center system described in further detail in connection with .

The WFM performs many functions related to the agent workforce. The functionality of the entire WFM is typically divided among several applications executables processes or services. A forecast component predicts future workload based on past workload where workload includes contact volume and handle time for intervals throughout a historical period. A scheduler component calculates staffing levels and agent schedules based on predicted workload. A tracking component provides a contact center supervisor or manager with information about agent activities and agent customer interactions both historical and real time. An adherence component supplies the supervisor with information on how well each agent complies with contact center policies.

Contacts database stores contacts recorded by contact recorder . The database may include descriptive information as well as recorded content. Contact center supervisors and quality analysts can tap into these recorded interactions to review evaluate and score agent performance.

Contacts analysis component consists of a mining function and a pattern recognition function . The mining function mines the streams of unstructured data within a recorded interaction to produce structured data. Structured data includes any data format that is understood and easily accessible from an application for example a database schema software data structures etc. Pattern recognition function correlates instances of structured data with other instances of structured data to extract additional meaning from the interactions. The structured data used by pattern recognition function includes data produced by the mining function as well as other forms of structured data provided as input to contacts analysis component .

Examples of analysis include categorizing calls based on content analyzing a call against an expected call pattern and reporting exceptions to the pattern and providing a visualization layer for recorded interactions that displays other data attributes such as agent activities coincident with call events.

In one embodiment integrated system also includes one or more of a performance manager an evaluation manager and a development manager. The evaluation manager allows various types of employee performance review processes to be managed i.e. 360 degree reviews . The performance manager receives data from the evaluation manager and presents the performance data to the contact center manager through various scorecard view. The development manager tracks employee Learning Development and detects a need for training.

It should be noted that embodiments of one or more of the systems described herein could be used to perform an aspect of speech analytics i.e. the analysis of recorded speech or real time speech which can be used to perform a variety of functions such as automated call evaluation call scoring quality monitoring quality assessment and compliance adherence. By way of example speech analytics can be used to compare a recorded interaction to a script e.g. a script that the agent was to use during the interaction . In other words speech analytics can be used to measure how well agents adhere to scripts identify which agents are good sales people and which ones need additional training. As such speech analytics can be used to find agents who do not adhere to scripts. Yet in another example speech analytics can measure script effectiveness identify which scripts are effective and which are not and find for example the section of a script that displeases or upsets customers e.g. based on emotion detection . As another example compliance with various policies can be determined. Such may be in the case of for example the collections industry where it is a highly regulated business and agents must abide by many rules. The speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify when agents are not adhering to their scripts and guidelines. This can potentially improve collection effectiveness and reduce corporate liability and risk.

In this regard various types of recording components can be used to facilitate speech analytics. Specifically such recording components can perform one or more of various functions such as receiving capturing intercepting and tapping of data. This can involve the use of active and or passive recording techniques as well as the recording of voice and or screen data.

It should be noted that speech analytics can be used in conjunction with such screen data e.g. screen data captured from an agent s workstation PC for evaluation scoring analysis adherence and compliance purposes for example. Such integrated functionality can improve the effectiveness and efficiency of for example quality assurance programs. For example the integrated function can help companies to locate appropriate calls and related screen interactions for quality monitoring and evaluation. This type of precision monitoring improves the effectiveness and productivity of quality assurance programs.

Another aspect that can be accomplished involves fraud detection. In this regard various manners can be used to determine the identity of a particular speaker. In some embodiments speech analytics can be used independently and or in combination with other techniques for performing fraud detection. Specifically some embodiments can involve identification of a speaker e.g. a customer and correlating this identification with other information to determine whether a fraudulent claim for example is being made. If such potential fraud is identified some embodiments can provide an alert. For example the speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify the emotions of callers. The identified emotions can be used in conjunction with identifying specific concepts to help companies spot either agents or callers customers who are involved in fraudulent activities.

Referring back to the collections example outlined above by using emotion and concept detection companies can identify which customers are attempting to mislead collectors into believing that they are going to pay. The earlier the company is aware of a problem account the more recourse options they may have. Thus the speech analytics of the present disclosure can function as an early warning system to reduce losses.

Also included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 540 185 filed on Sep. 29 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for facilitating Contact Center Coaching both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators Kips and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance and or 6 Coaching feedback to promote efficient performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

Contacts analysis component will now be discussed in further detail in connection with . shows a process performed by mining function . In this example a recorded interaction includes three streams of unstructured data each containing audio content from one speaker Agent A Agent A and Customer C . Other embodiments can include different numbers of unstructured data streams. Mining function identifies structured data contained within the unstructured audio stream . Two types of structured data that can be mined from an unstructured audio stream are speaker attributes and speech events.

Attributes are identified characteristics associated with a segment of the unstructured stream . Some attributes describe the contact such as inbound or outbound. Other attributes relate to speech for example language speaker gender speaker identifier e.g. by agent role customer role or voice recognition to identify particular agents . In the example interaction of mining function has identified certain segments of the audio stream as being male and female.

In addition to identifying stream attributes mining function also identifies events within an unstructured stream. Events are associated with a start time and a duration or a start time and a stop time . Some events are linguistic in nature while others are not. Examples of linguistic speech events include words phrases e.g. supervisor Bank of America and proximate words phrases e.g. transfer me and supervisor found within 5 seconds of each other . Examples of non linguistic speech events include emotion stress and silence.

In the example interaction of mining function has identified five different speech events a word event greeting W at time t a stress event E at t a silence event S at t an emotional event empathy E at t and a word event competitor W at t.

Although mining an unstructured interaction to produce structured events and or attributes is useful at this level these events and attributes do not represent information in the context in which it was actually utilized. Thus this level does not yet capture information that has semantic meaning to the business i.e. business intelligence. In pattern recognition function performs a process in which correlations between multiple events and or attributes are identified. The identified correlations or patterns have a higher value of semantic meaning for the business enterprise as compared to individual events and attributes.

Two additional streams of structured data are also included in interaction . One structured data stream includes events from contact router see such as a CallTransfer T. The other structured data stream includes events from agent workstations . In this example a workstation event such as event A specifies a particular application running on the agent workstation as well as a particular screen within the application. In other implementations the events may also include application inputs e.g. keystrokes mouse clicks .

Pattern recognition function analyzes the structured data within multiple captured streams to identify one or more patterns. In the example interaction of pattern recognition function has identified an Angry Customer pattern from the sequence of structured data. The Angry Customer pattern starts with stress event E followed by the phrase event transfer to supervisor P as spoken by the agent followed by a contact router Transfer event T. These patterns are defined by business rules which may be based on generic templates and then customized for the specific business enterprise.

Speech analytics is typically deployed as a mechanism to extract business intelligence out of the conversations captured in the contact center. For example most common applications include contact classification billing technical support etc. contact disposition resolution of issue topic trending mentions of competitor product etc. business process improvement identification of repetitive activities for automation etc. issue identification to reduce churn and automated contact scoring.

In contrast forecaster also receives historical contact data from contacts analysis component which includes information derived from the content of the contact. In one embodiment contacts analysis component derives this information by performing various classifications for example classifying contacts according to topic disposition e.g resolved open etc. and emotional content e.g. stressed angry . In one embodiment classification applies speech analysis techniques to voice calls to extract keywords which suggest call topic and or disposition to identify emotional content etc. In another embodiment classification applies text analysis to email instant messages text chat etc. to extract keywords which suggest call topic disposition and or emotional content.

Like workload data contact content data also includes correlation with time periods. In some embodiments these time periods include intraday daily weekly and monthly.

Forecaster examines historical workload data and contact content data to identify regularly occurring patterns and trends in the contact center workload and produces a prediction of future workload . Patterns describe repeating occurrences of similar content at related time periods. One example of a contact content pattern is a number of contacts that were classified into the same topic category similar content and that occur during the early evening shift related time periods .

Using only historical workload data from contact router forecaster is limited to identifying patterns such as more call volume on Monday mornings longer handle time after lunch etc. However the reason why there are more calls on Monday or handle times are longer after lunch is not clear from this data since it doesn t include any information about the content of the contact.

The addition of contact content data allows forecaster to identify additional and more detailed patterns such as more billing contacts during last week of month and more disposition Issue Resolved at start of shift. Forecaster can then take these patterns into account when producing the workload forecast so that more agents are assigned to billing during the last week of the month. Thus the workload forecast produced by this integrated system of is more accurate than a workload forecast produced by a conventional WFM system.

Contact recorder records these event streams as well as the contact content stream e.g. the voice stream for a voice call or a data stream for computer contact such as email chat etc. . As described above contacts analysis component performs various analyses on the recorded streams to produce structured data and to identify patterns.

In the embodiment of contacts analysis component also analyzes recorded workstation events and determines how many agent work units these events represent. A work units is determined by mapping sequences of events to business transactions which are considered agent work units . For example a particular sequence of screens within a customer relationship manager CRM application may indicate a new customer record creation and another sequence might indicate a new order creation where a creating a new customer and creating a new order are defined as agent work units. More details of mapping events to business transactions can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 359 319 System and Method for Detecting and Displaying Business Transactions. 

Determining agent work units for non phone contacts allows contacts analysis component to produce a measure which is analogous to a handle time for a phone contact. This type of measure for non phone activities is not readily available in conventional call center software.

Contacts analysis component also produces from agent workstation events workstation productivity data indicating the amount of time an agent spends in productive computer activities in non productive computer activities or both. In one embodiment productive non productive is determined at the level of a particular workstation applications e.g. CRM and corporate email application are productive while games and web browser are not . In another embodiment productive non productive is determined at a finer level of granularity. For example certain screens within an application may be considered productive while others are not or certain web pages or Internet addresses may be considered productive while others are not.

These two measures are provided to forecaster which uses this data as a basis for determining historical workload for non phone activities. Forecaster analyzes this historical workload for non phone activities as well as historical phone workload data from contact router and identifies workload patterns and trends. From this information forecaster produces a prediction of future workload which is used by the scheduler to produce a schedule.

Contact recorder captures a portion or all of agent customer contacts for storage in contacts database . Contacts analysis component analyzes the contacts to derive information describing the contact. Some embodiments analyze the contacts to determine contact attributes such as call time and duration a queue identifier and call transfer events e.g. call was initially answered by a customer service agent but was then transferred to a specialist agent . Some embodiments of contacts analysis component further analyze the contact to extract content information such as contact topic and contact disposition. Some embodiments of contacts analysis component also analyze the contact to determine the occurrence of specific speech events e.g. keywords 

In the embodiment of information provided by contacts analysis component is used by a user interface of tracking component to supplement activity information displayed to a contact center manager or supervisor. is a screen shot of an activity view displayed by one embodiment of tracking component . Tracking component displays activities of one or more agents in a timeline view. Blocks displayed in correlation with a timeline axis represent activities with blocks of different colors shades fills etc. representing different types of activities. Activities for each agent are displayed on a different line.

When an agent activity is also associated with a recorded contact tracking component displays contact analysis information in conjunction with the activity. For example contact attributes can be displayed in visual proximity with the recorded interaction as shown in . In one embodiment contact attributes are not displayed by default but a user activates display of the attributes for example by clicking an icon or button. As another example activity blocks of different colors can represent different contact topics. As yet another example the occurrence of keywords within an activity can be represented by various small icons placed within the activity block.

In integrated contact center system a user can quickly drill down from a particular queue statistic to one or more recorded contact interactions associated with the queue and to any analysis data produced by contacts analysis component that is associated with those contacts. When a user requests more detailed information on a queue statistic tracking component retrieves related analysis data and displays this additional detail to the user. For example a queue with an increased average handle time may be associated with interactions that include unusual keywords and this information is then provided to the user who drills down from the average handle time. In this manner the user better understands the root cause of a deviation between actual workload and forecast and can therefore make better decisions on how to respond.

Typically contact center personnel such as supervisors and quality analysts play back some of the interactions and review evaluate and score agent quality in various categories product knowledge selling listening etc. However only a relatively small portion of recorded interactions can be scored using this manual method since it is time consuming. Thus a percentage of calls are usually randomly selected for manual scoring.

In one embodiment contacts analysis component performs automatic call scoring on a larger portion or even all of the recorded interactions. For automatic scoring interaction scores may be relative to each other rather than absolute as compared to a standard. Manual scoring may then be performed on a portion of the automatically scored interactions. For example if contacts analysis component classifies interactions into buckets having a 1 to 5 scale then an intelligent selection feature may select X of each bucket for manual scoring.

After scores are produced manually automatically or in combination a correlation engine within contacts analysis component looks for correlations between scores and agent shifts and agent work patterns. Such correlations when found suggest that interaction quality increases or decreases with certain shift or work patterns. For example the interaction quality of most agents may decline after handling particular contact types for more than a specific length of time or that a certain mix of contact types leads to a decline in interaction quality possibly because the context switch from one contact to the next is difficult for the agent .

The correlation data is provided to scheduler which can use the data to generate schedules that lead to higher quality interactions. Identified correlations can be tracked within the database repository as dynamic data relationships. Since these are non structured and very dynamic this relationship may be represented via a dynamic association that could be programmatically configured rather than being represented as data structures per se.

One embodiment of the correlation engine will now be described in more detail. This embodiment utilizes an agent schedule database a quality performance database and a contact center operation database when determining correlations between scores and shifts and work patterns. The agent schedule database may include data such as skills day date breaks meetings and training. The quality performance database may include data such as contact quality scores and agent names. The contact center operation database may include data such as contact identification contact type agent name contact stats e.g. time date percentage of contacts answered average handling times contact volumes wait times abandonment rates and timing details e.g. events occurring within a certain time period of each other .

The correlation engine identifies patterns or correlation based discovery that show why and or when certain poor performance occurs repeatedly and correlated with exogenous events such as high AHT or long queue times. The correlation engine can provide n way correlations between poor good quality of agent measurements and other contact center details. Thus the correlation engine can provide a statistical examination of time indexed data to find correlations between quality of agents measured historically and other contact center details.

The correlation engine identifies statistically valid correlations between agent quality scores and other contact data. The input data can be pre processed or filtered to remove outlier data for example removal of all data that is a greater than two standard deviation away from the mean median . In an alternative embodiment the pre processing can allow selective user induced filtering on other parameters for example look only at data relating to a particular agent .

The filtered data representing two axes of information is provided as input to a Pearson r linear correlation formula which computes the value of r known as the correlation coefficient. The correlation coefficient ranges from 1 perfect negative correlation to 0 no correlation to 1 perfect positive correlation . In addition statistical significance p e.g. p

Clustering is another computational method used to determine correlation. Clustering takes all evaluated and unevaluated contacts and partitions them into sets based on one or more parameters that are statistically correlated with quality of service. A contact center manager can visualize each cluster for the user and preferably annotate which contacts are evaluated and which are unevaluated. Yet another correlation computational method is statistical trend analysis which looks for temporal trends in correlated sets of contacts to show that quality of service is increasing or decreasing statistically significantly over time.

