---

title: System and method for coexistence in wireless networks
abstract: A computing arrangement may include a first radio transceiver operating in accordance with a first communication protocol using a frequency band and a second radio transceiver operating in accordance with a second communication protocol using the frequency band. An access point operates in accordance with the first communication protocol and transmits a communication signal that has a frame including a first time interval indicative of when communications using the first communication protocol via the frequency band are permitted to the computing arrangement. The computing arrangement determines if the frame includes a second time interval, which is indicative of and is reserved for exclusive communications in accordance with the second communication protocol. If the second time interval is absent from the frame, the computing arrangement inserts the second time interval into the frame. The computing arrangement communicates with a further device only during the second time interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07447505&OS=07447505&RS=07447505
owner: Symbol Technologies, Inc.
number: 07447505
owner_city: Holtsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070910
---
The present application is a Continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 835 784 filed Apr. 30 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 280 836 the entire disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Conventional systems that utilize a wireless communication protocol e.g. the IEEE 802.11 standard may include a plurality of wireless devices which communicate with a central computer using one or more access points APs . As defined in the 802.11 standard these communications use the 2.4 GHz frequency band.

Conventional wireless devices may use several predefined methods of communications within the 2.4 GHz band. One method is to use a frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS mechanism where data is transmitted for a certain period of time in a particular channel and following a pseudorandom sequence continues transmission at a different channel for the same predetermined length of time. Currently the wireless devices operate at a frequency hopping rate of 10 hops second. Another transmission method is to use a direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS mechanism where the data is transmitted in a predetermined frequency channel and is multiplied by a pseudorandom chipping sequence during transmission.

Another wireless communication protocol which utilizes the 2.4 GHz frequency band is Bluetooth . Bluetooth is designed for short range wireless communications using a low power level. Bluetooth operates using a frequency hopping spread spectrum mechanism at a rate of 1600 hops second. Interference exists between systems utilizing the Bluetooth and 802.11 protocols since both protocols operate on the same frequency band. Therefore a concept of coexistence has developed in which wireless communication systems can share the same frequency band without interfering with each other. However many conventional coexistence techniques are proprietary and manufacturer specific. In other word these coexistence techniques work in a closed system where all components must be participating components from the same manufacturer i.e. any third party device cannot be used in the closed system .

A system and method according to the present invention provides for coexistence for an open system. The open system is a system where all components does not have to be participating components from the same manufacturer i.e. any third party device can be used in the open system . In other words the present invention allows to expand the existing closed system to become the open system which utilizes third party components.

The present invention seeds time values into the beacon of a wireless unit WU . In particular time values are seeded locally within the WU itself into the beacon of a terminal WU so that the beacon of the WU becomes synchronous with the beacon of the system. Once the WU is synchronized with the system the WU is capable of generating signal necessary for local coexistence within a terminal and also across all terminal connected to an access point AP .

One of the advantages of the present invention is that it allows the closed system WU to operate in its native coexistence mode while communicating with a third party access point that has no native mechanism for coexistence.

In particular the present invention relates to a system which includes a computing arrangement and an access point. The computing arrangement may include a first radio transceiver operating in accordance with a first communication protocol using a frequency band and a second radio transceiver operating in accordance with a second communication protocol using the frequency band.

The access point operates in accordance with the first communication protocol and transmits a communication signal using the first communication protocol. The signal has a frame including a first time interval indicative of when communications using the first communication protocol via the frequency band are permitted. The first radio transceiver receives the signal and the computing arrangement determines if the frame includes a second time interval. The second time interval is indicative of when communications using the second communication protocol via the frequency band are permitted. The second interval is reserved for exclusive communication in accordance with the second communication protocol. If the second time interval is absent from the frame the computing arrangement inserts the second time interval into the frame. The second radio transceiver communicates with a further device utilizing the second communication protocol only during the second time interval.

The AP allows for the transmission and reception of wireless signals according to a first communication protocol FCP e.g. the 802.11b protocol using a particular frequency band e.g. the 2.4 GHz band . As would be understood by those skilled in the art the AP may include an element e.g. antenna that enhances and or facilitates the ability of the AP to send and receive the wireless signals.

The system according to the present invention may further include a computing arrangement . As would be understood by those skilled in the art the computing arrangement may be a wireless device unit e.g. laptop cell phone PDA hand held computer etc. . The computing arrangement includes a first radio transceiver which communicates using the FCP allowing it to send and receive signals from the AP and other wireless device utilizing the FCP. As would be understood by those skilled in the art the first radio transceiver may include an element e.g. antenna that enhances and or facilitates the ability of the first radio transceiver to send and receive wireless signals.

The computing arrangement may further include a second radio transceiver which operates in accordance with a second communication protocol SCP e.g. Bluetooth using the same frequency band as the FCP. For example the second radio transceiver may act as a master device e.g. Bluetooth radio . The second radio transceiver may communicate with one or more further devices which operate utilizing the SCP. For example the further device may be a slave device e.g. a scanner a printer a PDA a personal data managing device a PC card a headset etc. . As a slave device the further device can send and receive signals from the second radio transceiver utilizing the SCP.

According to the SCP the second radio transceiver and the further device in the system may be authorized by a user to operate in a piconet. The second radio transceiver initiates the link with the further device . The second radio transceiver may include a clock and a frequency hopping sequence which it uses to synchronize the further device . Thus the second radio transceiver tells the further device when it can transmit data. As will be described in greater detail below the first radio transceiver will allow for a time quantum in which the second radio transceiver and the further device may operate. Therefore according to the present invention and as shown in the further device may communicate using the wireless signals and only communicates with the second radio transceiver .

As described above a conventional coexistence system is proprietary and or manufacturer specific i.e. the closed system and all of the equipment used in the closed system are made by the manufacturer. In the conventional closed system equipment cannot coexist with components produced by third party manufacturers because the beacon data of the third party device is not seeded with a synchronous SCP time quantum data i.e. the information which defines the beacon frame and the division of the beacon frame into the first time interval and the second time interval as described below and shown in . Without the synchronous SCP as that of the closed system the coexistence design of the closed system does not permit the third party device to either transmit or receive thus preventing its use. For example the closed system may present a significant disadvantage since it may not work with third party APs 802.11b cards or Bluetooth radios. A lack of compatibility may significantly limit the range and effectiveness of the devices using the FCP and the SCP.

Thus without implementing the coexistence system there may be times when the first radio transceiver and the second radio transceiver attempt to operate at the same time. Since the first radio transceiver and the second radio transceiver may operate using the same frequency band there is the potential for interference with one another especially if they are housed adjacent to each other in the computing arrangement or multiple nearby computing arrangements.

The beacon may include a beacon period which further includes a pulse . The beacon period may further include a Clear to Send CTS signal which includes a time value that causes all other APs including hidden stations in the system to hold off transmission of frames for a time period necessary for the requesting AP to send its beacon . The CTS signal may minimize collisions between the beacon sent from the requesting AP with other beacons from various APs. Preferably each AP has a beacon period that is synchronous to a subsequent beacon period disposed on a same backbone to allow for seamless roaming within the system .

The beacon may further include a beacon frame which may be divided into a first time interval and a second time interval . The existence of first time interval and second time interval allows for the coexistence of the FCP and the SCP on the same frequency band. As an example out of a 100 msec beacon period of the beacon frame may be exclusively dedicated to use for devices operating in accordance with the FCP e.g. used solely for 802.11 activity of the AP and the first radio transceiver . Thus only 20 of the beacon frame remains for the second time interval which is exclusively dedicated to use for devices operating in accordance with the SCP e.g. used solely for Bluetooth activity of the second radio transceiver and the further device . These intervals create coexistence of devices operating according to the FCP and devices operating according to the SCP on the same frequency band.

In step the first radio transceiver receives the beacon from the AP . For example the first radio transceiver may be a component the closed system and the AP may be a third party component i.e. the AP is not made by the same manufacturer as the first radio transceiver . Reception of the beacon may be in the manner as described above. The beacon transmitted may include a beacon rate which is adjustable and drives the timing for the rest of the system . In the present invention the SCP time may also be transmitted as a portion of the beacon replacing a formerly unused portion of the beacon data. Those of skill in the art will understand that information regarding beacons of communication protocols are contained in the standards for such protocols. In addition the SCP timing contributes to the determination of the timing of the system .

At step the first radio transceiver examines the beacon received from the AP . In particular the first radio transceiver determines whether the beacon has a beacon frame that contains the second time interval which allows for communication on the frequency band exclusively for the SCP devices. If the beacon includes the SEP time the first radio transceiver reads portions of the transmitted beacon data to extract the SCP time quantum data step . Based on elements of the SCP time quantum data the first radio transceiver establishes a beacon frame which includes the interval for the SCP transmission.

The process then continues to step where the device proceeds with the transmission based on the timing included in the beacon e.g. the second transceiver communicates during the interval using the SCP and the first transceiver communicates during the interval using the FCP . As part of step the first transceiver may generate an arbitration signal notifying the second transceiver of the time quantum e.g. interval which is available for the communication using the SCP. Thus the FCP and the SCP coexist within the same system.

Any further beacon emitted from the AP may include the second time interval along with the first time interval . Therefore the computing arrangement may communicate with the AP and the further device because there is time dedicated to the FCP and time dedicated to the SCP on the frequency band.

The beacon received by the first radio transceiver may have a beacon frame that does not contain the second time interval i.e. in the step the first transceiver determines the beacon does not include the SCP time. Alternatively the beacon emitted from the AP may not be received by the first radio transceiver for various reasons such as the AP being made by a different manufacturer than the first radio transceiver .

Where the first transceiver does not receive the beacon with the second time interval the second radio transceiver may be able to communicate with the further device . However the signals from the first transceiver and the second transceiver will interfere with each other and cause a general degradation in communications within system . The absence of the second time interval does not allow for the exclusive communication for devices operating in accordance with the SCP. Thus the second radio transceiver may be completely ineffective in a sub system defined by the AP and the further device.

The process would then continue to step where the beacon frame has been examined by the first radio transceiver and it does not contain the second time interval . Therefore the second radio transceiver cannot communicate with the further device within the sub system. In this situation the second time interval may be seeded locally in the first radio transceiver . The value designating the second time interval which is to be seeded may be obtained by the first radio transceiver via the device s non volatile registry an application programming interface or even a default value. Alternatively the first radio transceiver may obtain the value designating the second time interval from an existing network connection as long as interferences do not completely prevent communications from occurring.

If the second time interval is locally seeded in the first radio transceiver it then has the capability of collaborating with the second radio transceiver . In this manner the first radio transceiver receives the beacon from the AP wherein the beacon does not contain the second time interval or the AP is only compatible with its manufacturer specific devices. Thus the SCP devices would not be operable on the frequency band. The first radio transceiver then loads the second time interval which is internally seeded into the beacon frame . This allows for coexistence between the first radio transceiver operating in accordance with the FCP and the second radio transceiver operating in accordance with the SCP. Thus after the first radio transceiver has loaded the second time interval into the beacon frame the sub system can proceed to operate according to the coexistence scheme described above with reference to .

Once the second time interval is loaded into the beacon frame the second radio transceiver is capable of communicating with the further device on the same frequency band as the first radio transceiver without interference. The internal seeding of the second time interval allows a proprietary or manufacturer specific second radio transceiver to operate in a third party sub system.

The present invention has been described with the reference to the AP the radio transceivers and the communications protocols FCP SCP. One skilled in the art would understand that the present invention may also be successfully implemented. Accordingly various modifications and changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the broadest spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings accordingly should be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

