---

title: Optical security system using fourier plane encoding
abstract: A method of encrypting a set of data is disclosed. The method may include encoding a set of data with a first encryption key, and transforming the set of data encoded with the first encryption key. The method may also include using a second encryption key to encode the transformation of the set of data encoded with the first encryption key. The method may also include transforming the encoded transformation of the set of data encoded with the first encryption key generating thereby and encrypted set of data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150033&OS=08150033&RS=08150033
owner: University of Connecticut
number: 08150033
owner_city: Farmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071004
---
This is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 11 424 129 filed Jun. 14 2006 priority to which is claimed herein and which is incorporated herein by reference. Application Ser. No. 11 424 129 is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 09 493 692 filed Jan. 28 2000 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 117 872 filed Jan. 29 1999 priority to both of which is claimed herein and both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This application was supported by the USAF Rome Lab grant F19628 95 C 0136 and the National Science Foundation.

This invention relates to a system and method for verifying the authenticity of an object and securing a set of data.

Due to the rapid advances in computers CCD technology image processing hardware and software printer and copiers there is an increase potential of fraud by reproducing the patterns and pictures used to verify the authenticity of the objects. The application of optical processing and pattern recognition for security verification of credit cards passports and other forms of biometric image identification have been proposed B. Javidi and J. L. Horner Optical Pattern Recognition for Validation and Security Verification 33 6 1752 1756 1994 H. Y. Li Y. Qiao and D. Psaltis Optical Network for Real time Face Recognition 32 5026 5035 1993 T. Grycewicz and B. Javidi Experimental Comparison of Binary Joint Transform Correlators Used for Fingerprint Identification 35 9 2519 2525 1996 P. K. H. Fielding J. L. Horner and C. K. Makekau Optical Fingerprint Identification by Binary Joint Transform Correlation 30 12 1958 1961 1991 C. L. Wilson C. I. Watson E. G. Pack Combined Optical and Neural Network Fingerprint Matching in Optical Pattern Recognition VIII D. P. Casasent and T. Chao ed. Proc. Soc. Photo Opt. Instrum. Eng. 373 383 1997 J. Rodolfo H. Rajbenbach and J P. Huignard Performance of a Photorefractive Joint Transform Correlator for Fingerprint Identification 34 4 1166 1171 1995 Refregier and B. Javidi Optical Image Encryption using Input and Fourier Plane Random Phase Encoding 20 767 769 1995 M. Kowalczyk Spectral and Imaging Properties of Uniform Diffusers JOSA A Vol. 1 No. 2 192 200 February 1984 H. Kogelnik and K. S. Pennington Holographic Imaging Through a Random Medium 58 2 273 274 1968 which are incorporated herein by reference .

Various kinds of optical data processing technology for information security have been proposed. H. Y. S. Li Y. Qiao and D. Psaltis Appl. Opt. 32 5026 1993 B. Javidi and J. L. Horner Opt. Eng. 33 1752 1994 P. Refregier and B. Javidi Opt. Lett. 20 767 1995 F. Goudail F. Bollaro B. Javidi and P. Refregier J. Opt. Soc. Am. A15 2629 1998 C. L. Wilson C. I. Watson and E. G. Paek Proc. SPIE 3078 373 1997 D. Weber and J. Trolinger Opt. Eng. 38 62 1999 O. Matoba and B. Javidi Opt. Lett. 24 762 1999 all of which are incorporated herein by reference . In one approach P. Refregier and B. Javidi Opt. Lett. 20 767 1995 which is incorporated herein by reference the data are encrypted optically by double random phase encoding with uniformly distributed random phase keys in both the input and Fourier planes. In addition digital holographic techniques U. Schnars and W. Juptner Appl. Opt. 33 179 1994 B. W. Schilling et al Opt. Lett. 22 1506 1997 E. Cuche F. Bevilacqus and C. Depeursinge Opt. Lett. 24 291 1999 which are incorporated herein by reference that use a CCD camera for direct recording of a hologram have become available owing to the development of the imaging technology.

The following references are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety R. O. Duda P. E. Hart Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis J. Wiley and Sons 1973 R. Schalkoff Pattern Recognition Statistical Structural and Neural Approaches J. Wiley and Sons 1992 P. Hariharan Optical Holography Principles Techniques and Approaches Cambridge University Press 1984 W. H. Lee Computer Generated Holography Techniques and Applications Progress in Optics Vol. 16 Ed. E. Wolf Amsterdam North Holland 1978 J. W. Goodman Introduction to Fourier Optics McGraw Hill 1996.

In this invention a new method for optical security verification based upon phase encoded convolution of a primary image with a random phase code is proposed. The convolution of the primary image and the random code yields position invariance to a possible shift of the primary image or the random code. In this method a nonlinear joint transform correlator JTC verifies biometric information and the random code simultaneously to determine whether or not an object such as an ID card is authentic and thus whether the object is being used by an authorized person. The binarization of the phase information encoded on the input card is disclosed. A composite reference image obtained from a set of rotated primary images and convolved with the random code in order to obtain position and rotation invariance is used. The system tolerates rotational variations of the input images. The performance of the proposed method is investigated using a number of metrics. An optoelectronic architecture is proposed to perform the verification. The discrimination capability of the proposed method against unauthorized codes or unauthorized primary images is investigated in the presence of additive noise and distortions. The robustness of the proposed method in the presence of noise and distortions such as missing data is addressed.

The proposed method for security is based upon convolution of the primary image by a random code. The primary image f x y is phase encoded which can be mathematically represented by exp i f x y Max f x y . The range of variation of the phase encoding is 0 . The phase encoded primary image is convolved with a random code c x y . In this invention the random code c x y is chosen to be the Fourier transform FT of a phase only uniform random distribution M. Kowalczyk Spectral and Imaging Properties of Uniform Diffusers JOSA A Vol. 1 No. 2 192 200 February 1984 which is incorporated herein by reference . With this choice of c x y the invention is assured of having high light efficiency output. The resulting convolved image is a complex amplitude distribution exp Max 1 where denotes convolution.

The convolved image r x y will be placed on a card or the object to be verified. It will serve as the reference image to the optical processor. Therefore the information encoded on the card is a combination of primary information f x y and a machine code c x y . For additional security the convolved pattern r x y placed on the ID card or any personal document can be made to be phase only information by setting the amplitude of the complex distribution r x y equal to one S. Maze and Ph. Refregier Optical Correlation Influence of the Coding of the Input Image 33 6788 6796 1994 S. Maze and Ph. Refregier Noise Robustness of Optical Correlation for Amplitude or Phase Modulation of the Input Image 17 426 428 1992 which are incorporated herein by reference . The phase only pattern reference image on the ID card or on the personal document is given by

This invention also investigates the performance of binarization of the phase information of the reference encoded on the document. The binarization of the reference image is given by 

A joint transform correlator JTC architecture C. J. Weaver and J. W. Goodman A Technique for Optically Convolving Two Functions 5 1248 1249 1966 which is incorporated herein by reference is used to verify the authenticity of the card. A nonlinear JTC is more practical because of the limited dynamic range of optical devices. In addition the nonlinear JTC offers many advantages in terms of correlation performance B. Javidi Nonlinear Joint Transform Correlators in B Javidi and J. L. Horner Eds. Academic Press New York 1994 B. Javidi Nonlinear Joint Power Spectrum Based Optical Correlation 28 2358 2367 1989 which are incorporated herein by reference . A nonlinear joint transform correlator is used to perform the correlation between the convolution of the phase encoded primary pattern and the random code mask and the phase distribution recorded on the card given by Equation 2. In the Fourier plane of the nonlinear joint transform correlator a threshold function V is used which is the sum of the self product terms of the joint power spectrum. A k th power law nonlinearity 0 k 1 is applied to the modified joint power spectrum in the Fourier plane B. Javidi Nonlinear Joint Transform Correlators in B Javidi and J. L. Horner Eds. Academic Press New York 1994 B. Javidi Nonlinear Joint Power Spectrum Based Optical Correlation 28 2358 2367 1989 which are incorporated herein by reference . An inverse Fourier transform of the nonlinearly transformed joint power spectrum will generate the nonlinear joint transform correlator output plane. If s x y is the signal to be verified the nonlinear joint transform correlator output of the system is given by Output 4 where the superscript k denotes the k th law nonlinear joint transform correlation and k 0 1 is the severity of the nonlinearity used in the Fourier plane B. Javidi Nonlinear joint transform correlators in B Javidi and J. L. Horner Eds. Academic Press New York 1994 B. Javidi Nonlinear Joint Power Spectrum Based Optical Correlation 28 2358 2367 1989 which are incorporated herein by reference . The k th law nonlinear JTC in the Fourier plane is defined by RS exp j j where R exp j and S exp j are the Fourier transforms of the reference image and the input image respectively. When the phase of the reference input is binarized the k th law nonlinear joint transform correlator output is define as Output 5 

A security method and system that combines double random phase encryption with a digital holographic technique is disclosed. The proposed system allows for the digital storage transmittal and decryption of the encrypted data. One benefit of the proposed system compared with electronic encryption techniques is that optical processing provides many degrees of freedom for securing information. Another benefit is that optical encryption is naturally suited to encrypting information e.g. real images and information stored in holographic media that exists in the optical domain. Either optical or computer decryption techniques can be used with the proposed system depending on the specific application. Computer decryption is less secure because the phase key is stored electronically but no manual focusing adjustment is required and the decryption system is more compact.

Let f x y a x y and H denote an image to be encrypted an input random phase mask and a Fourier random phase mask respectively. The input random phase mask a x y is bonded with the image f x y . The resultant product of the two images is Fourier transformed and is multiplied by the Fourier phase mask H . A second Fourier transform products the encrypted data. The encrypted data is recorded as a Fourier hologram using an interference with the reference wave R . The hologram I can be written as

A system and method of verifying the authenticity of an object is presented. The method comprises providing a primary image providing a secondary image encoding the primary image providing a random code convolving the encoded primary image with the random code providing thereby a reference image affixing the reference image to the object to be authenticated transforming the reference image and comparing the transformed reference image with the secondary image. The system comprises a signal source a first subsystem receiving a first signal from the signal source and providing as output therefrom a first output signal a second subsystem receiving a second signal from the signal source and providing as output therefrom a second output signal a third subsystem receiving the first and second output signals for comparing the first output signal with the second output signal.

In a schematic representation of a system for security verification is shown generally at . In particular in a source of coherent light is provided to illuminate first and second Fourier transform optical subsystems by way of mirrors and beam splitter . The first Fourier transform optical subsystem provides as output therefrom a first optical output signal indicative of the Fourier transform of the convolution of the random code c x y and the phase encoded primary image expi f x y Max f x y . The second Fourier transform optical subsystem provides as output therefrom a second optical output signal indicative of the Fourier transform of the a phase only convolved image x y . The first and second optical output signals are detected at a detector . A signal indicative of the joint power spectrum of the first and second optical signals is provided as output from the detector to a verification subsystem for correlation thereof.

The optical setup for security verification is shown in as a nonlinear joint transform correlator JTC . The optical system consists of two arms. In one arm the convolution of a secondary image such as the phase encoded primary pattern expi f x y Max f x y and the random code c x y is performed by use of a spatial filter matched to the random code c x y and positioned in the Fourier or u v plane. Light is projected by beam expander and collimation lens at a spatial modulator SLM . The phase encoded primary pattern is displayed by means of a spatial light modulator SLM . Fourier transform lens L images the Fourier transform FT of the phase encoded primary pattern F u v in the Fourier or u v plane. The processor has an a priori knowledge of the random code mask c x y . Thus in the u v plane a filter with transmission C u v is placed. C u v is the Fourier transform of the random code c x y . Lenses Land L image the complex amplitude distribution formed at the filter plane onto the plane where a detector is placed. Thus the Fourier transform of the convolution between the two functions exp i x y Max x y and c x y is obtained in plane. In the other arm an object whose authenticity is to be verified and including a reference image such as the phase only distribution x y is placed in the input plane x y of the processor . Light is projected be a beam expander and collimating lens at to a beam splitter . Coherent light from the beam splitter illuminates the reference image from a card . Lens L images at the Fourier transform of x y onto the plane of the detector . Thus a joint power spectrum is obtained in plane. The joint transform interference intensity is recorded by the detector and is nonlinearly transformed by a nonlinear threshold function generator in the verification subsystem . The resulting modified joint transform spectrum is inverse Fourier transformed and the modulus thereof squared to obtain the correlation of the primary image and the reference image. The correlation signal may be obtained either by performing optical Fourier transform by displaying the modified intensity distribution written on the SLM or by using discrete Fourier transform.

It will be appreciated to one skilled in the art that the aforedescribed system for verifying the authenticity of an object is not limited to an optical system but also encompasses electronic systems as well as combinations thereof. It will also be appreciated that the signals generated therein may be either one dimensional or two dimensional or n dimensional.

Computer simulations have been conducted to investigate the performance of the proposed optical systems.

In the simulations a discrimination capability of the security system against an unauthorized input card is examined. The card is considered to be unauthorized when either the input primary biometric image or the random code is unauthorized. To evaluate the discrimination we define the discrimination ratio DR as

In addition the robustness of the proposed optical security system in the presence of additive input noise is investigated. In the noise performance tests of the system both white and colored noise are considered. The performance of the proposed method is investigated using a number of metrics. The signal to noise ratio SNR is defined as the ratio of the expected value squared of the correlation peak amplitude to the variance of the correlation peak amplitude. And the peak to output energy ration metric POE is defined as the ratio of the expected value squared of the correlation peak to the average expected value of the output signal energy.

Throughout the simulations fingerprint biometrics are used as the primary image however the other biometrics can be used as well. The optical processor was first tested for authenticity of a card encoded with a fingerprint information convolved with a random code in the absence of input noise and distortions. Two fingerprints are selected for computer simulation as shown in . The fingerprint in is chosen as authentic and the fingerprint in is considered as an unauthorized biometric image to be rejected. is the output correlation intensity for the authentic card when the authorized fingerprint and code are used. A sharp and strong output peak for the authentic card is obtained. The simulations in were performed with nonlinearity index of k 0.3 for the correlator. In the experiments the correlation output are normalized by the maximum correlation peak obtained by the authentic card. C and D show the output correlation intensity for the false class input for which low level cross correlations appear. shows the output correlations for an authorized fingerprint and an unauthorized random code. shows the correlation outputs for the authorized random code and an unauthorized fingerprint. shows the output correlation planes for an unauthorized fingerprint and an unauthorized code.

The correlation output of the proposed processor is investigated in the presence of input noise or other distortions such as missing data in order to study the robustness of the system. To test the noise tolerance of this method different kinds of additive noise are considered. The reference to be verified may contain some surface noise due to continuous use. Also during the real time registration of the primary pattern for verification the detector may introduce some noise which is considered in the simulations. The output of the nonlinear joint transform correlator in the presence of additive noise can be written as 

Simulation results are presented to illustrate the robustness of the system against additive noise using a k th law nonlinear JTC. The signal to noise ratio SNR discrimination ratio DR and peak to output energy ratio POE are measured. The simulation of the input noise on the input card and on the reference image has been carried out for several values of standard deviation. The performance parameters are computed for 50 different sample realizations of the input signals corrupted by noise.

The experiments were conducted with both additive white noise and colored noise. In the simulations a range of values for the nonlinearity index k of the correlator has been tested. The input biometrics were corrupted by Gaussian noise with a standard deviation equal to 0.1 0.2 and 0.3. shows the noisy image with white noise of standard deviation 0.3. In the simulations the reference encoded on the card is also corrupted by a zero mean additive white noise with a standard deviation equal to 0.3 0.5 and 0.7. The noise robustness variation results obtained are similar for all three levels of noise that corrupt the information encoded on the card. The results obtained with a noise level standard deviation equal to 0.7 are presented. The experiment was performed by simulating 50 realizations of white noise.

The experiments were repeated with the biometrics images that were corrupted by zero mean additive colored noise of bandwidth equal to 15 and various standard deviations. shows the corrupted image with additive colored noise with a standard deviation equal to 0.3 and bandwidth of 15. In the simulations the encoded reference on the card is also corrupted by a zero mean additive color noise with bandwidth of 15 and a standard deviation equal to 0.3 0.5 and 0.7. The results obtained for the reference corrupted with an additive colored noise with a standard deviation equal to 0.7 are presented. The experiment was done over the results of 50 realizations of independent noise.

The robustness to missing data during the acquisition of the primary pattern information is tested. shows an example of input primary pattern with missing data when 25 of the authorized fingerprint is blocked. The results of the tests with missing input data are presented in . In the simulation presented here additive white noise used for both the input primary pattern with a standard deviation equal to 0.3 and for the reference encoded on the credit card with a standard deviation equal to 0.7 .

System performance using rotation invariant encoded references is disclosed. In real applications of the system rotation of the primary pattern during acquisition of the fingerprint may occur. Some simulations of in plane rotation indicate that the system proposed in this invention can tolerate one degree of input image rotation. The sensitivity depends on the nonlinearity index k. The smaller the nonlinearity index k the more sensitive the system is to rotation changes in input primary pattern. The range of the rotation of the primary pattern during the acquisition process may be very limited and it can be reduced by the system using a guide for the user s finger thus a controlled environment may be used.

To improve the rotation robustness of the system a rotation invariant primary pattern using a training set of rotated images is developed. The rotation invariant primary pattern is encoded on the card. This rotation invariant primary pattern is a linear combination of several images of a single fingerprint. Each image is rotated by a small angle.

The system performance when the phase information encoded on the card is binarized is disclosed. Display of the complex spatial distribution on the card may not be trivial. To remedy this problem the binarization of the distribution which is to be encoded on the card is tested. The reference image encoded on the card at each point is set equal to 1 when the real part of the reference image is positive and equal to 1 otherwise as seen in Eq. 3. This approach leads to a 2 D binary pattern placed on the card. It is shown that in the simulation the verification and the validation are obtained with high accuracy. illustrates the binary phase distribution encoded on the card obtained by using Eq. 3.

Referring to a Mach Zehnder interferometer is shown generally at . A Helium Neon laser with a Spatial Filter SF is a source of coherent light which is collimated by collimating lens CL split BSI and directed by mirror M to the arms. The lower arm of the interferometer is the optical path of the image encryption. The upper arm is the reference wave. The input image to be encrypted is bonded with the input phase mask at plane P . This product is transformed by lens L . Such transformation may be for example a Fourier transformation or a Fresnel transformation. The transformation is multiplied by the Fourier phase mask at plane P and imaged onto the CCD camera by the 4 f optical system of lenses L and L . The reference wave passes through the 4 f optical system of lenses L and L to maintain the spatial coherence.

At the CCD camera a hologram is created by the interference between the encrypted data and the slightly inclined reference plane wave directed by mirror M and beam combiner BS . The hologram captured by the CCD camera is sampled with 512 480 pixels and is quantized to 8 bits of gray levels by a frame grabber board not shown to provide signal . The input image the input phase mask and the lens L are removed when we record the hologram of the Fourier phase mask. In the experiments a random phase mask is used with a correlation length of less than 10 m as an input phase mask and a lens as the Fourier phase mask.

The reason why a lens is used is the lack of sufficient space bandwidth product of both the optical system and CCD camera to permit use of a wide angle random phase make with a small correlation length of less than 10 m. To remedy this problem phase masks can be designed to take into account the available space bandwidth product of the optical system. Lens L has a numerical aperture of 0.10 lenses L and L 816 each have a numerical aperture of 0.14 and lenses L and L each have a numerical aperture of 0.17. The CCD array has dimensions 6.4 4.8 mm.

Digital holograms of the encrypted data and the Fourier phase mask are shown in respectively. The digitally reconstructed encrypted images are shown in . These images were obtained by inverse Fourier transforming of the digital hologram of the encrypted data. The original images cannot be recognized. The mean square errors between the original images MEMORY and UCONN of the encrypted images of are 7.3 and 6.6 respectively. The digitally reconstructed images that have been decrypted with the hologram of the Fourier phase mask are shown in . The original images can be seen. The mean square errors between the original images MEMORY and UCONN of and the decrypted images of are 0.97 and 1.1 respectively. The experimental results demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed method.

Thus a new method and system for security verification of objects such as a credit card or an ID card using optical pattern recognition has been shown. This method is based on phase encoded convolution of the primary pattern with a random code placed on the card. An optical system to perform the verification has been described. The correlation is performed using a nonlinear joint transform correlator JTC . For the images presented here the proposed method can identify an authorized input by producing well defined output peaks and it rejects the unauthorized input with a high discrimination ratio. The performance of the system in terms of input noise biometric rotation and missing data has been investigated. For the tests provided here the proposed system is found to be robust to noise added to the input primary pattern and to the reference pattern encoded on the card. Nonlinear correlation allows a compromise between the noise tolerance and the discrimination ratio. The tests using missing data show that for the fingerprint image used in the simulation the system provides good tolerance up to 25 of missing data in the input primary pattern and that the security verification of the authorized input is highly discriminate against the unauthorized inputs. A rotation invariant composite reference primary pattern is designed to provide tolerance to rotation of the input primary image. Binarization of the phase information encoded on the card has been tested. The results indicate that the verification is obtained with high discrimination ratio of authorized inputs against unauthorized inputs.

An image security method and system that uses digital holography has also been presented. This method allows the encrypted data to be stored transmitted and decrypted digitally. Optical experiments have been shown to illustrate the proposed method. The system can be used for secure video storage and transmission.

