---

title: Spanning connector for connecting a spinal fixation element and an offset bone anchor
abstract: A spanning connector for connecting an offset bone anchor to a previously inserted spinal fixation element and method of use is provided. The spanning connector includes a first connecting mechanism for connecting the spanning connector to the bone anchor, and a second connecting mechanism for connector the spanning connector to the previously inserted spinal fixation element. The spanning connector also includes a connector body for coupling the first connecting mechanism and the second connecting mechanism. Embodiments of a spanning connector may also reduce a separation distance between the bone anchor and the spinal fixation element. Embodiments of a spanning connector are configured, sized and dimensioned for use in a minimally invasive surgical technique, such as a rod-first spinal surgical technique.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08057518&OS=08057518&RS=08057518
owner: DePuy Spine, Inc.
number: 08057518
owner_city: Raynham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
The present invention relates to connector devices and methods for use during orthopedic surgery. More particularly the present invention relates to connectors for connecting spinal fixation elements and offset bone anchors.

For a number of known reasons spinal fixation devices are used in orthopedic surgery to align and or fix a desired relationship between adjacent vertebral bodies. Such devices typically include a spinal fixation element such as a relatively rigid fixation rod that is coupled to adjacent vertebrae by attaching the element to various anchoring devices such as hooks bolts wires or screws. The fixation elements can have a predetermined contour that has been designed according to the properties of the target implantation site and once installed the instrument holds the vertebrae in a desired spatial relationship either until desired healing or spinal fusion has taken place or for some longer period of time.

Spinal fixation elements can be anchored to specific portions of the vertebrae. Since each vertebra varies in shape and size a variety of anchoring devices have been developed to facilitate engagement of a particular portion of the bone. Pedicle screw assemblies for example have a shape and size that is configured to engage pedicle bone. Such screws typically include a threaded shank that is adapted to be threaded into a vertebra and a head portion having a rod receiving element usually in the form of a U shaped slot formed in the head. A set screw plug or similar type of fastening mechanism is used to lock the fixation element e.g. a rod into the rod receiving head of the pedicle screw. In use the shank portion of each screw is threaded into a vertebra and once properly positioned a rod is seated through the rod receiving member of each screw and the rod is locked in place by tightening a cap or other fastener mechanism to securely interconnect each screw and the fixation rod.

Recently the trend in spinal surgery has been moving toward providing minimally invasive elements and methods for implanting spinal fixation devices. For example one such method a rod first method includes inserting a spinal rod through a first incision and positioning the spinal rod along a patient s spinal column adjacent to one or more vertebra. After the spinal rod is inserted a first bone anchor is inserted through the first incision or through a separate incision and then additional bone anchors are inserted each through a separate incision along the spinal rod. After a bone anchor is inserted and anchored in bone it is coupled to the spinal rod. A rod first method is a minimally invasive technique in which the bone anchors are inserted after the rod and adjacent to the rod as opposed to a conventional surgical technique in which the bone anchors are inserted first then the rod is placed in rod receiving elements lying over the heads of the bone anchors.

Unfortunately one or more bone anchors may not be inserted immediately adjacent to the spinal rod. Additionally in many instances one or more vertebrae are out of alignment such that the one or more vertebrae and the inserted bone anchor are not immediately adjacent to the inserted spinal rod. In percutaneous or minimally invasive procedures it is more difficult to adjust a spinal rod using a technique such as bending to make contact between the spinal rod and the bone anchors. It is also it is more difficult to move such displaced vertebrae so that the vertebrae may be coupled to the spinal rod. Thus there is a need for a spanning connector for connecting a previously inserted spinal fixation element such as a spinal rod with an offset bone anchor in a minimally invasive surgical procedure. There is also a need for a spanning connector suitable for use in a minimally invasive surgical procedure that can approximate e.g. move a displaced vertebra toward the spinal fixation element.

In accordance with a first aspect a spanning connector is provided for connecting a spinal fixation element SFE to an offset bone anchor. The spanning connector includes a first connecting mechanism for coupling the spanning connector to the bone anchor and a second connecting mechanism for coupling the spanning connector to the previously inserted spinal fixation element. The spanning connector also includes a connector body for coupling the first connecting mechanism with the second connecting mechanism.

In certain embodiments the spanning connector may also include an approximation mechanism configured to approximate e.g. move a bone anchor to reduce a separation distance between the bone anchor and the SFE. The second connecting mechanism may be configured to engage the SFE either from a side or from above. The first connecting mechanism may be configured to connect the spanning connector to a shaft of the bone anchor. The first connecting mechanism may be configured to connect the spanning connector to a head of the bone anchor.

In certain embodiments the connector body of the spanning connector may have a telescoping mechanism configured to adjust to a separation distance between the offset bone anchor and the SFE by changing a length of the spanning connector. The connector body may be configured to rotate about the head of the bone anchor from an insertion configuration to an engagement configuration.

In other embodiments the second connecting mechanism may include a collar slidably coupled with the SFE. An extender may be coupled with the collar. The connector body may include a receiver for receiving the extender and a securing element for securing the extender to the connector body.

In another embodiment the spanning connector may include a gear drive for extending and retracting a connector arm. An SFE engager for engaging the SFE is attached to an end of the connector arm. The gear drive may approximate an offset bone anchor by retracting the connector arm after the SFE is coupled with the SFE engager.

Another exemplary embodiment includes a method of using a spanning connector to couple an offset bone anchor to a previously inserted spinal fixation element. The method includes providing a spanning connector having a first connecting mechanism a second connecting mechanism and a connector body. The first connecting mechanism is configured to couple the bone anchor with the spanning connector. The second connecting mechanism is configured to couple the SFE with the spanning connector. The connector body is configured to couple the first connecting mechanism and the second connecting mechanism. The method also includes coupling the connector body to the bone anchor using the first connecting mechanism and inserting the connector body and the bone anchor into a patient. The method further includes coupling the spanning connector to the SFE using the second connecting mechanism.

Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall understanding of the principles of the structure function manufacture and use of the devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those skilled in the art will understand that the devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the accompanying drawings are non limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the present invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

Exemplary embodiments described herein concern spanning connectors for connecting spinal fixation elements to offset bone anchors such as a pedicle bone screws or anchor bolts and methods of use. Exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector are particularly suited for use in a rod first spinal surgical technique in which the bone anchor inserted into a patient vertebra may be separated from the SFE by a distance. An exemplary embodiment of a spanning connector couples the previously inserted spinal fixation element with an offset bone anchor. Some exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector also approximate a bone anchor by reducing the distance between the SFE and the bone anchor. Exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector are sized and dimensioned for insertion through a minimally invasive surgical access port such as a cannula. Additionally exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector are configured for use in a rod first surgical technique in which an SFE is inserted and positioned in a patient before insertion of bone anchors and in which the bone anchors are positioned adjacent to an SFE and not beneath the SFE.

As described herein an offset bone anchor is a bone anchor that has been inserted into a patient vertebra and anchored in bone and is separated by a distance from an SFE inserted into position in the patient before the insertion of the bone anchor. Ideally exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector can couple an SFE and a bone anchor separated by a distance of at least about 2 mm. Some embodiments may couple an SFE and a bone anchor separated by a distance of about 10 mm for example in cases of spinal deformities.

The bone anchor may have been inserted by any appropriate method ideally a minimally invasive method including using a cannula k wire etc. Techniques and instruments for minimally invasive insertion of a bone anchor and a connecting element are discussed in detail in the related applications application DUQ 034 entitled Minimally Invasive Guide System filed on Aug. 31 2007 and DUQ 037 entitled Method and System for Securing a Rod to a Bone Anchor with a Connector filed on Aug. 31 2007.

According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the first connecting mechanism may include an opening in a first end of the connector body for receiving a shaft of the bone anchor . The opening may be a slot in the connector body as depicted or a circular or elongate hole through the connector body . The first connecting mechanism may also include a securing element having a hole for passing the shaft of the bone anchor through. The securing element is configured to exert a compressive force against a top side of the connector body . The securing element may be a nut configured to engage threads on the shaft of the bone anchor as depicted.

According to further aspects of the exemplary embodiment the second connecting mechanism may include a slot extending from a second end of the connector body and forming a top arm and a bottom arm . The top arm and the bottom arm are joined at the first end of the connector body . A receiving slot gap between the top arm and the bottom arm is configured to receive the SFE . The compressive force exerted by the securing element against the top side of the connector body causes a width of the receiving slot gap to decrease securing the SFE to the connector body . The securing element secures the first end of the connector body to the bone anchor and secures the SFE to the second end of the connector body .

In this exemplary embodiment the spanning connector is configured for side engagement with the SFE where side engagement is displacement of the SFE with respect to the bone anchor substantially along an engagement axis perpendicular to both the shaft of the bone anchor and the SFE . Although the spanning connector is configured to allow side engagement with the SFE it can also engage the SFE from a substantially vertical direction. The spanning connector may be sized dimensioned and configured for insertion thorough a minimally invasive surgical port. As illustrated in the spanning connector may be inserted into the patient at an angle to the shaft of the bone anchor with the first end of the connector body leading the second end of the connector body to reduce an insertion profile of the spanning connector .

According to further aspects of an exemplary embodiment the connector body may also include a cavity formed between the first piece and the second piece as illustrated by the exploded view of the spanning connector depicted in . The connector body may also include an injection lumen that connects the cavity to space external to the connector body . Non solid hardenable media may be injected into the cavity through the injection lumen when the connector body is in a shortened state with the cavity at a minimum size. The non solid hardenable media fills the cavity and exerts pressure on the first piece and the second piece causing the first piece and the second piece to slide away from each other lengthening the spanning connector until it spans the distance between the SFE and the bone anchor . After the non solid hardenable media hardens the first piece and the second piece are locked in position relative to each other. The first piece may include external surface recesses located where the first piece slidably couples with the second piece and the second piece may include internal surface recesses where the second piece slidably couples with the first piece . The external surface recesses and internal surface recesses allow the non solid hardenable media to enter the slidable coupling for a more secure attachment between the first piece and the second piece .

According to other aspects of an exemplary embodiment the elongate recess may be formed in a bottom side of the second piece . This placement of the elongate recess allows the second piece to engage the SFE from above. The spanning connector may also include a first securing element configured to exert a compressive force against a top side of the first piece securing the first piece to the bone anchor . The spanning connector may also include a second securing element for securing the SFE in the elongate recess of the second piece .

According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the connector body may include a first piece and a second piece configured to slidably couple with the first piece to change a length Lof the spanning connector forming the telescoping mechanism. The first connecting mechanism may include a channel disposed in the first piece of the connector body for passing a shaft of the bone anchor therethrough. The second connecting mechanism may include a elongate recess disposed in the second piece and configured to receive and partially encircle the SFE .

The first piece and the second piece may form a cavity . The connector body may also include a spring disposed in the cavity . The spring exerts a force on the second piece that biases the second piece outward as indicated by arrow . The outward force is transmitted to the SFE through contact with the elongate recess . The second securing mechanism may further include a plurality of flexible elongate elements such as cables . Each cable is configured to encircle the SFE and couple the SFE with the first piece . Tension in each cable exerts an inward force on the SFE directed toward the first piece as indicated by arrows . The inward forces from cable tension are balanced by the outward force arrow from the compressed spring securing the SFE in the elongate recess of the spanning connector . The outward biasing force from the spring causes the spanning connector to lengthen to adjust to a displacement between the bone anchor and the SFE .

The elongate body of the spanning connector may be positioned on the previously inserted bone anchor and put in contact with the SFE before the cables and are positioned and secured as depicted in . After the spanning connector is positioned and the SFE is seated in the elongate recess of the second piece the cables and are tightly wrapped around the SFE and the first piece and secured as depicted in . The flexible elongate elements such as cables may be glued tied crimped etc. to form bands around the SFE and the first piece .

According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the first connecting mechanism may include a hook projection disposed at a first end of the connector body . The hook projection is configured to engage the shaft of the bone anchor . The hook projection may substantially lie in a plane. The second connecting mechanism may include a main slot extending from a second end of the connector body and oriented perpendicular to the plane of the hook projection . The main slot is configured to receive the SFE as depicted in . The main slot defines a first arm and a second arm disposed at the second end of the connector body . The first arm and the second arm each have a receiving slot configured to receive the SFE from the main slot when the connector body is rotated about a central axis of the connector body with respect to the SFE as depicted in . The second connecting mechanism may also include a threaded locking element configured to engage external threads of the connector body . The locking element may be rotated with respect to the connector body to move the locking element toward the second end of the connector body . The locking element is configured to block a portion of the main slot trapping the SFE in the receiving slot of the first arm and the receiving slot of the second arm as depicted in .

The spanning connector is coupled with the SFE before the hook projection is coupled with a shaft of the bone anchor . Because the spanning connector is not initially coupled with the shaft of the bone anchor the spanning connector is free to engage the SFE from many different directions. When using the spanning connector in a rod first surgical technique engagement of the SFE from a side and engagement of the SFE from above are particularly useful engagement geometries.

According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the connector body may have an access channel extending through the connector body and through the bone anchor parallel to a central axis of the connector body . The access channel allows passage of a k wire through the bone anchor when the connector body is in an insertion configuration with the central axis of the connector body parallel to a shaft of the bone anchor as depicted in . The first connecting mechanism can include a rotatable coupling disposed at a first end of the connector body for rotatably coupling the first end of the connector body to the bone anchor head . The rotatable coupling is configured to permit the connector body to rotate between the insertion configured depicted in and an engagement configuration with the central axis of the connector body perpendicular to a shaft of the bone anchor as depicted in . The second connecting mechanism can include an engaging elongate recess formed in the connector body and configured to engage the SFE from above when the connector body is in the engagement configuration. The engaging elongate recess is also configured to partially encircle the engaged spinal fixation element .

According to other aspects of an exemplary embodiment the connector body may also include an SFE for securing the SFE in the receiving elongate recess . The connector body may also include a screw lock for locking a position of the connector body relative to the bone anchor as illustrated in which present different perspective views of the spanning connector coupled with the SFE . a cross sectional view of the spanning connector illustrates details of the access channel the rotatable coupling the SFE lock and the screw lock .

The rotatable coupling may be a substantially spherically shaped socket configured to rotatably seat a substantially spherically shaped bone anchor head . The screw lock may be a threaded element configured to exert a downward force on the bone anchor head when tightened. The SFE lock may be a sliding element configured to be pushed toward the second end of the spanning connector when the bone anchor head feels a downward force from the threaded element . The screw lock and the SFE lock may be controlled by different elements or the screw lock and the SFE lock may be controlled by the same element such as a set screw as depicted in .

As illustrated in an exemplary spanning connector may also include a drive mechanism that allows the bone anchor to be driven by the bone anchor head when the connector body is in an insertion configuration as depicted in but does not allow the bone anchor to be driven by the bone anchor head when the connector body is in an engagement configuration as depicted in C and D . Connector body may have flat surfaces in an internal cavity that contact the bone anchor head . The bone anchor head may have corresponding flat sides that allows the bone anchor to be driven by the bone anchor head when the connector body is in position depicted in but does not allow the bone anchor to be driven by the bone anchor head when the connector body is in the position depicted in . The flat surfaces of the internal cavity of the bone anchor head and the flat sides of the bone anchor head may form the drive mechanism .

According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the connector body may include an access channel extending through the connector body from a first end of the connector body to a second end of the connector body . The access channel is parallel to a central axis of the connector body . The access channel allows tool access to the bone anchor head when the connector body is in an insertion configuration with the central axis of the connector body parallel to the shaft of the bone anchor . A first diameter Dof the access channel is sized for insertion of the bone anchor therethrough.

The first connecting mechanism may include a channel neck disposed at the first end of the connecting body . A channel diameter narrows from a first diameter Dto a smaller diameter Dat the channel neck . The smaller diameter Dat the channel neck is larger than an outer diameter of the bone anchor shaft and smaller than an outer diameter of the bone anchor head . The channel neck rotatably couples the connector body to the bone anchor head . The first connecting mechanism may also include a side slot extending from the channel neck along the connector body parallel to the central axis the side slot extending through one wall of the connector body . A width WS of the side slot is larger than the outer diameter of the bone anchor shaft and smaller than the outer diameter of the bone anchor head .

The channel neck and the side slot form a rotatable and sliding coupling for rotating the connector body relative to the bone anchor and for displacing the connector body along the central axis of the central body with respect to the bone anchor . The rotatable and sliding coupling allows the connector body to rotate from the insertion configuration depicted in to an engagement configuration with the central axis of the connector body perpendicular to the bone anchor shaft . When the connector body is in the engagement configuration the rotatable and sliding coupling allows the connector body to be displaced relative to the bone anchor along the central axis of the connector body which is also the axis of engagement .

According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the spanning connector may include a main slot configured to receive the SFE . The main slot extends from the second end of the connector body parallel to the central axis of the connector body and rotated 90 degrees from the orientation of the side slot . Engagement of the SFE is depicted in C and D. In the connector body has been rotated to the engagement configuration and displaced along a central axis of the connector body away from the SFE . The connector body may be rotated and displaced simultaneously to provide sufficient space between the second end of the connector body and the SFE to complete the rotation. In the connector body is being displaced along the engagement axis toward the SFE and is about to receive the SFE in the main slot . In the connector body has been maximally displaced along the engagement axis toward the SFE and the SFE has been received in the main slot . The second connecting mechanism may also include an end lock configured to engage threads in the second end of the connector body blocking the main slot and securing the SFE in the connector body .

In addition to connecting the SFE to the offset bone anchor an exemplary embodiment of the spanning connector can decrease a separation distance between the SFE and the bone anchor often referred to as approximating the bone anchor toward the SFE . As the end lock is advanced into the connector body of the spanning connector the bone anchor is pulled by the connector body toward the SFE as indicated by arrow in . Thus the end lock and the connector body form an approximating mechanism .

According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the connector body includes a channel extending from a proximal end of the connector body to a distal end of the connector body . The channel is configured for insertion of the bone anchor and tool access. The connector body also includes a receiver for receiving an extender . The receiver may include a slot in the connector body as depicted in . The first connecting mechanism may couple the connector body with the bone anchor head . The connector body may be able to pivot in multiple directions relative to the bone anchor head . An example of a suitable connector body that may pivot in multiple directions with respect to an anchor head is a canulated polyaxial screw used with the VIPER system produced by DePuy Spine Inc. of Raynham Mass. and described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 179 261.

The second connecting mechanism may include a collar slidably coupled with the SFE . The collar may include a threaded channel for receiving a set screw . The set screw may be used to lock a position of the collar with respect to the spinal fixation element . The extender may be coupled with the sliding collar and configured to be engaged by the receiver . The second connecting mechanism may also include a securing element configured to engage threads on an interior surface of the channel and to apply force to press the extender against the connector body securely coupling the extender and the connector body . The securing element may also lock a position of the connector body with respect to a bone anchor head .

The SFE may be inserted with the sliding collar and the extender already coupled with the SFE . After the bone anchor is inserted the extender may be coupled to the connector body . Alternatively the sliding collar may be inserted with the SFE and the extender may be inserted after insertion of the bone anchor and then attached connector body . The extender may then be coupled with the sliding collar and secured to the connector body .

According to aspect of the exemplary embodiment the spanning connector may include a body channel extending from a distal end of the connector body to a proximal end of the connector body . The body channel extends along a central axis of the connector body . The body channel allows insertion of the bone anchor and tool access to the bone anchor head . At a distal end the connector body may couple with the bone anchor head .

According to other aspects of an exemplary embodiment the second connecting mechanism may include a gear drive disposed in the body channel . Elements of the gear drive are depicted in the exploded view of the spanning connector illustrated in and in the cross sectional exploded view of the spanning connector illustrated in . The gear drive includes a controlling element having a top side and a bottom side . A pinion gear is disposed on the bottom side of the controlling element . The top side of the controlling element has an instrument coupling to allow an instrument to engage the controlling element . In this case the instrument coupling is a plurality of recesses configured to engage an instrument. The controlling element is configured to rotate about the central axis of the connector body . The gear drive also includes the connector arm that extends from the connector body . The connector arm has a rack gear configured to engage the pinion gear of the controlling element . The rack gear may be disposed in a channel of the connector arm . The rack gear and the pinion gear form a rack and pinion system that converts rotational motion of the controlling element into linear extension and retraction of the connector arm . The gear drive and the connector arm form an approximation mechanism for reducing the distance between the SFE and the bone anchor .

The second connecting mechanism may also include an SFE engager disposed at an end of the connector arm for engaging the SFE . The SFE engager may include a elongate recess for receiving the SFE and a locking element for securing the SFE in the elongate recess . The connector arm may be extended to engage the SFE by receiving it in the elongate recess . Once the SFE is engaged retraction of the connector arm decreases the distance between the SFE and the bone anchor also known as approximation of the bone anchor.

Another exemplary embodiment of a spanning connector is a clamp type spanning connector that connects a SFE to an offset bone anchor depicted in . depicts a side view of the spanning connector and depicts a side cross sectional view of the spanning connector . The spanning connector includes a connector body with a top side a bottom side and a channel for passing a shaft of the bone anchor therethrough. The channel forms a first connecting mechanism that connects the bone anchor and the spanning connector . The connector body also includes a recess formed on the bottom side of the connector body. The recess is configured to contact a surface of the SFE clamping the SFE against a seat element of the bone anchor forming the second connecting mechanism . The spanning connector may also include a securing element that exerts force on the top side of the connector body to secure the connector body against the SFE . The top side of the connector body may be slanted so that that a first force exerted by the securing element on the connector body in the direction of arrow when the securing element is tightened causes a second force on the connector body in the direction . The channel in the connector body may be sufficiently wide to allow the connector body to move in the direction in response to the second force. The motion of the connector body can decrease a separation distance between the SFE and the bone anchor thus forming an approximation mechanism. The spanning connector may be configured to rotate between an insertion configuration and a clamping configuration.

Use of an exemplary embodiment of a spanning connector will be described with reference to the spanning connector because the spanning connector incorporates many different features of exemplary embodiments including rotation of the connector body between an insertion configuration and an engagement configuration displacement of the connector body with respect to the bone anchor and an approximation mechanism . Although the spanning connector is useful to illustrate many features of exemplary embodiments it is only a representative of a particular exemplary embodiment and does not incorporate all features of all exemplary embodiments. In use the spanning connector depicted in is inserted into a patient vertebra through a minimally invasive surgical access port after the SFE has been inserted and positioned in the patient. The bone anchor is inserted into and coupled with the connector body before the bone anchor and the connector body which are coupled in an insertion configuration are inserted into the patient vertebra. The bone anchor and connector body in the insertion configuration depicted in are inserted into the patient vertebra through a minimally invasive surgical access port such as a cannula. The bone anchor is inserted to a depth where the bone anchor head is at the same height as the SFE .

The connector body is both rotated and displaced along the central axis of the connector body away from the SFE . As previously noted the connector body may be rotated and displaced simultaneously to provide sufficient space between the second end of the connector body and the SFE to complete the rotation. Once the connector body is in an engagement configuration as depicted in the connector body is moved toward the SFE along the engagement axis until the SFE is received in the main slot of the connector body . Once the SFE is within the main slot an end lock may be positioned at the second end of the connector body and screwed into place coupling the SFE with the connector body .

Advancing the end lock further toward the first end of the connector body exerts a force on the SFE in the direction of the bone anchor head and exerts an opposing force on the bone anchor head through the connector body in the direction of the SFE as depicted in . Further advancing the end lock reduces the distance separating the bone anchor and the SFE .

As depicted in the connector body is coupled to the bone anchor and then the coupled connector body and bone anchor are inserted into the patient. In other embodiments of the method the bone anchor may be inserted into the patient before the connector body is coupled with the bone anchor. Then the connector body is inserted into the patient and coupled with the bone anchor.

After the bone anchor and connector body are coupled to each other and inserted into the body the spanning connector is coupled to the previously inserted spinal fixation element using the second connecting mechanism step coupling the bone anchor with the SFE . In other embodiments of the method the bone anchor may be inserted into the patient then the spanning connector may be coupled to the SFE and then the connector body may be coupled to the bone anchor. According to aspects of an exemplary embodiment the method may include using one or more locking elements to secure the connector body to the bone anchor and or to secure the SFE to the spanning connector .

According to other aspects of an exemplary embodiment the method may include approximating the bone anchor toward the spinal fixation element using an approximating mechanism step as depicted in . The approximating mechanism includes the end lock and the connector body . Tightening the end lock exerts force on the bone anchor in the direction of arrow to reduce a distance between the bone anchor and the spinal fixation element . Another approximating mechanism including a gear drive and a connector arm is depicted in .

While the figures depict exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector coupling an SFE to a bone anchor and methods of use one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector may couple with many different types of bone anchors including but not limited to bolts screws hooks staples anchors etc. Additionally exemplary embodiments of a spanning connector may couple with many different types of spinal fixation elements including but not limited to rods dynamic rods cables vertebral body replacements interbody fusions devices plates PDS posterior dynamic stabilization elements etc. Although exemplary embodiments depicted herein allow side engagement with an SFE and or engagement from above embodiments may also allow engagement from below an SFE diagonal engagement and various other engagement orientations.

One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the invention based on the above described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited by what has been particularly shown and described except as indicated by the appended claims.

While the devices and methods of the present invention have been particularly shown and described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that various changes may be made in the form and details herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain many equivalents to the exemplary embodiments described specifically herein by using no more than routine experimentation. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the scope of the present invention and the appended claims.

