---

title: Diphenyl substituted alkanes
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08440672&OS=08440672&RS=08440672
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 08440672
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070829
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US2007 018991 filed Aug. 29 2007 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 961 598 filed Jul. 23 2007 and from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 933 886 filed Jun. 8 2007 and from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 841 758 filed Sep. 1 2006.

The instant invention involves compounds that inhibit 5 lipoxygenase activating protein FLAP compositions containing such compounds and methods of treatment using such compounds for the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis and related diseases and conditions.

Inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis has been an active area of pharmaceutical research for many years. Leukotrienes are potent contractile and inflammatory mediators derived through the oxygenation of arachidonic acid by 5 lipoxygenase.

One class of leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors are those known to act through inhibition of 5 lipoxygenase 5 LO . In general 5 LO inhibitors have been sought for the treatment of allergic rhinitis asthma and inflammatory conditions including arthritis. One example of a 5 LO inhibitor is the marketed drug zileuton which is indicated for the treatment of asthma. More recently it has been reported that 5 LO may be an important contributor to the atherogenic process see Mehrabian M. et al. Circulation Research 2002 Jul. 26 91 2 120 126.

A new class of leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors now known as FLAP inhibitors distinct from 5 LO inhibitors is described in Miller D. K. et al. Identification and isolation of a membrane protein necessary for leukotriene production Nature vol. 343 No. 6255 pp. 278 281 18 Jan. 1990 . See also Dixon R. A. et al Requirement of a 5 lipoxygenase activating protein for leukotriene synthesis Nature vol 343 no. 6255 pp. 282 4 18 Jan. 1990 . 5 LO inhibitor compounds were used to identify and isolate the inner nuclear membrane 18 000 dalton protein 5 lipoxygenase activating protein FLAP . These compounds inhibit the formation of cellular leukotrienes but have no direct effect on soluble 5 LO activity. In cells arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by the action of cytosolic phospholipase 2. This arachidonic acid is transferred to nuclear membrane bound 5 lipoxygenase by FLAP. The presence of FLAP in cells is essential for the synthesis of leukotrienes. Additionally based on studies described in Helgadottir A. et al. Nature Genetics Vol 36 No. 3 March 2004 pp. 233 239 it is believed that the gene encoding 5 lipoxygenase activating protein confers risk for myocardial infarction and stroke in humans.

Despite significant therapeutic advances in the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis and ensuing atherosclerotic disease events such as the improvements that have been achieved with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors further treatment options are clearly needed. The instant invention addresses that need by providing compounds compositions and methods for the treatment or prevention of atherosclerosis as well as related conditions.

The instant invention relates to compounds of Formula I which are FLAP inhibitors methods for their preparation and methods and pharmaceutical formulations for using these compounds in mammals especially humans. This invention provides compounds of structural Formula I 

The compounds of Formula I are also useful as anti asthmatic anti allergic anti inflammatory and cytoprotective agents. They are also useful in treating angina cerebral spasm glomerular nephritis hepatitis endotoxemia uveitis and allograft rejection. The instant invention provides methods of treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of the above described treatments.

A further object is to provide the use of FLAP inhibitors of Formula I in combination with other therapeutically effective agents including other anti atherosclerotic drugs. These and other objects will be evident from the description contained herein.

Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of OH and fluoro for example 1 3 of fluoro b Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 of fluoro and

Ris selected from the group consisting of H F OH and Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 5 fluoro including for example CF or

Rand Rare taken in combination and represent a mono or bi cyclic ring system containing 3 to 8 carbon atoms said system being optionally substituted with 1 2 groups selected from Calkyl OCalkyl F OH mono di or tri fluoroCalkyl and mono di and tri fluoroCalkoxy 

Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkenyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of OH NH CN O Calkyl and fluoro for example 1 3 of fluoro b Calkyl R c OCalkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of OH NHand fluoro d Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of methyl OH 

Ris selected from the group consisting of a H b Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of F NHand OH c Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of methyl CF F NHand OH d COCalkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of F and OH e COCcycloalkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of methyl CF F NHand OH and f a 4 6 membered saturated heterocyclic ring containing one N wherein the ring is bonded to the nitrogen in NRRthrough a carbon atom in the ring and wherein the ring is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of methyl CF F NHand OH 

Ris selected from the group consisting of a H b Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of F NHand OH and c Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of methyl CF F NHand OH 

Ris a heterocyclic ring selected from the group consisting of a azetidinyl optionally substituted with one or more of methyl F and OH b pyrrolidinyl optionally substituted with one or more of methyl F and OH c piperidinyl optionally substituted with one or more of methyl F and OH and d morpholinyl optionally substituted with one or more of methyl F and OH and

Y is selected from the group consisting of a a 5 membered aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from 1 to 4 of N and zero to 1 of S wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R b a 6 membered aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 2 N heteroatoms wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R c a 9 membered bicyclic aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 4 N heteroatoms wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with Rand d a 10 membered bicyclic aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 4 N heteroatoms wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R and

Ris selected from the group consisting of F NH OH OCcycloalkyl Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro and OCalkyl optionally substituted with phenyl or 1 3 fluoro.

Ris selected from the group consisting of COR C O NRR N R NRSOR NRC O R NRC O NRR S O NRR S O R F CF phenyl Hetcy and Z 

Ris selected from the group consisting of H and Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro groups 

each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of H and Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 members selected from the group consisting of NH OH F CN and CF 

R R and Rare each independently selected from H F Cl OH CN Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 of fluoro and OCalkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 of fluoro 

Hetcy is selected from the group consisting of azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl tetraydrofuranyl and lactamyl lactamyl lactamyl and tetrahydropyranyl 

An additional embodiment of this invention includes compounds falling within the scope of Formula I and Ia having structural Formula Ia 1 

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia and Ia 1 is a first class of compounds wherein Y is a 6 membered aromatic heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 2 N heteroatoms wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R. In a first sub class of each first class are compounds wherein Y is selected from 

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia and Ia 1 as well as within each of the first classes and first sub classes thereof is a second class of compounds wherein R when present is selected from the group consisting of NHand OCalkyl optionally substituted with phenyl or 1 3 of fluoro.

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ib and Ib 1 is a third class of compounds wherein Y is selected from a a 5 membered aromatic heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 2 heteroatoms selected from 1 to 2 of N and zero to 1 of S wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R and b a 6 membered aromatic heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 2 N heteroatoms wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R. In a sub class of each third class are compounds wherein Y is selected from 

In another sub class of each third class of compounds are those wherein Y is a 6 membered aromatic heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 2 N heteroatoms wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R and in a further sub class Y is selected from 

In still another sub class of each third class of compounds are those wherein Y is a 5 membered aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing one N and one S and in a further sub class Y is selected from 

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ib and Ib 1 as well as within the third classes and sub classes thereof defined above is a fourth class of compounds wherein Ris F or is absent i.e. Y is unsubstituted .

Within the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia and Ib as well as within each of the first second third and fourth classes and in each of any sub classes thereof is a fifth class of compounds wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of i propyl t butyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl 

Within the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia and Ib as well as within each of the first second third fourth and fifth classes and in each of any sub classes thereof is a sixth class of compounds wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H and CH. In a further sub class thereof are compounds wherein Ris H when Ris t butyl and Ris CHwhen Ris i propyl.

Within the embodiment defined by Formula I as well as within each of the first through sixth classes and in each of any sub classes thereof and the embodiment defined by Formula Ib as well as within each of the third through sixth classes and in each of any sub classes thereof is a seventh class of compounds wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H CHand CHCH.

Within the embodiment defined by Formula I as well as within each of the first through seventh classes and in each of any sub classes thereof and the embodiment defined by Formula Ib as well as within each of the third through seventh classes and in each of any sub classes thereof is an eighth class of compounds wherein Ris H.

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 as well as within each of the first through eighth classes and sub classes that are associated with any of Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 is a ninth class of compounds wherein R Rand Rare each H.

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 as well as within each of the first through ninth classes and sub classes that are associated with any of Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 is a tenth class of compounds wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of 

 a a 5 membered aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing a total of 2 to 4 heteroatoms selected from two to four of N zero to one of O and zero to one of S wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R 

 b a 6 membered aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 2 heteroatoms selected from N and O wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R 

 c Calkyl optionally substituted with R and particularly wherein Ris selected from Hetcy and Z and optionally substituted with R and particularly wherein Ris selected from OH and NH 

 h Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with R and particularly wherein Ris selected from Hetcy and Z and optionally substituted with R and particularly wherein Ris selected from OH and NH.

In a first sub class of each tenth class are compounds wherein Ris a 5 membered aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring containing a total of 2 to 4 heteroatoms selected from two to four of N zero to one of O and zero to one of S wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R and particularly wherein Ris selected from 

In second sub class of each tenth class are compounds wherein Ris a 6 membered aromatic heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 2N heteroatoms wherein the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with R and particularly wherein Ris selected from 

 a C CH OH b C CH NH c cycloalkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of OH and NH d OCHoptionally substituted with 1 3 of fluoro e CN f COCalkyl and g C O NRRwherein Ris H and Ris selected from i H ii Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of F and OH iii cycloalkyl optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of F and OH and iv a 4 6 membered saturated heterocyclic ring containing one N wherein the ring is bonded to the nitrogen in NRRthrough a carbon atom in the ring e.g. where Ris H and Ris a 6 membered saturated heterocyclic ring then NRRrepresents

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 as well as within each of the first through tenth classes and sub classes associated with any of Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 is an eleventh class of compounds wherein R when present is selected from the group consisting of

 a CRRRwherein Ris selected from H Calkyl and F Ris selected from H Calkyl and F and Ris selected from H Calkyl OCalkyl F NHand OH or Rand Rare joined together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl ring having the following structure

In a sub class of each eleventh class of compounds are those wherein Ris from the group consisting of C CH OH C CH NH CHOH 

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 as well as within each of the first through eleventh classes and sub classes associated with any of Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 is a twelfth class of compounds wherein Ris selected from

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 as well as within each of the first through tenth classes and sub classes associated with any of Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 is a thirteenth class of compounds wherein R when present is Hetcy. In a further sub class thereof are compounds wherein Ris absent.

Within each of the embodiments defined by Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 as well as within each of the first through tenth and thirteenth classes and sub classes associated with any of Formula I Ia Ib Ia 1 and Ib 1 is a fourteenth class of compounds wherein R when present is OH. In a further sub class thereof Ris absent and Ris OH or is absent.

The term alkyl means carbon chains which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof containing the indicated number of carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl iso propyl i propyl butyl sec and tert butyl s butyl t butyl pentyl hexyl and the like. Cycloalkyl is intended to be a cyclized alkyl ring having the indicated number of carbon atoms Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. The cycloalkyl ring may be substituted on any available carbon which results in the creation of a stable structure including the ring carbon which serves as the point of attachment to the rest of the molecule. Preferably cycloalkyl is cyclopropyl or cyclobutyl and more particularly when it is substituted with CHor CF the substituent is on the ring carbon which serves as the point of attachment to the rest of the molecule.

The terms heterocycle and derivatives thereof such as heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring mean an aromatic partially unsaturated or saturated ring containing one or more carbon atoms and one or more heteroatoms such as nitrogen oxygen and sulfur but may be more specifically defined where appropriate in the specification for example with respect to degree of saturation number of members i.e. atoms in the ring and or the type and quantity of heteroatoms in the ring. The point of attachment in a compound structure may be via any carbon or nitrogen in the heterocyclic ring which results in the creation of a stable structure unless specified otherwise. The heterocyclic ring may be substituted on any available carbon or nitrogen in the ring which results in the creation of a stable structure unless specified otherwise.

The phrase optionally substituted with one or more substituents is intended to mean that the total number of substituents on the optionally substituted moiety overall may be zero one or more than one and that each carbon and heteroatom when present available for substitution in the given moiety may independently be unsubstituted or mono or poly substituted with one or more substituents that are the same or different at each occurrence and which result in the creation of a stable structure. The term poly substituted is intended to mean two or more substituents e.g. di tri tetra penta substitution and higher as appropriate valence and stability permitting. For example Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more of fluoro includes but is not limited to CH CHF CHF CF CHCH CH CHF CHF CHF CF CF CH CF CH CF CF CF and the like. In some instances the number of substituents which may optionally be present on a moiety is specified for example but not limited to 1 3 of F fluoro . For example methyl optionally substituted with 1 3 of F includes CH CHF CHFand CF.

Some of the compounds encompassed herein may exist as tautomers e.g. keto enol tautomers. For the purpose of illustration when Ris a 5 membered heterocyclic ring and Ris oxo the resulting compound may be capable of tautomerism as exemplified below 

Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib or any other generic structural formulas used herein is intended to encompass compounds falling within the scope of the structural Formula including pharmaceutically acceptable salts esters and solvates thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts derived from inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic salts manganous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particular examples are the ammonium calcium lithium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethyl morpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like. When the compound of the present invention is basic salts may be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Such acids include acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethanesulfonic formic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic malonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric propionic succinic sulfuric tartaric p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic acid and the like and particularly citric fumaric hydrobromic hydrochloric trifluoroacetic maleic phosphoric sulfuric and tartaric acids.

Pharmaceutically acceptable esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Such esterified compounds may serve as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to their acid or hydroxy form. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable esters include but are not limited to Calkyl and Calkyl substituted with phenyl.

The compounds of Formula I may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates racemic i.e. enantiomeric mixtures single enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixtures and individual diastereoisomers. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts esters and solvates of such racemates mixtures enantiomers and diastereoisomers. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of compounds of the present invention may exist as polymorphs and as such are intended to be included in the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention.

Compounds of structural Formula I or intermediates may be separated into their individual enantiomers or diastereoisomers by e.g. fractional crystallization from suitable solvents e.g. DCM hexanes or EtOAc hexanes or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration.

The ability of the compounds of this invention to inhibit biosynthesis of the leukotrienes makes them useful for preventing or reversing the symptoms induced by the leukotrienes in a human subject. Accordingly this invention provides a method for preventing the synthesis the action or the release of leukotrienes in a mammal which comprises administering to said mammal a FLAP inhibitory effective amount of a compound of this invention. Such FLAP inhibitory activity can be measured using the FLAP Assay described herein. Since leukotrienes are potent inflammatory mediators also provided is method of treating an inflammatory condition in a mammal which comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a mammal in need of such treatment.

The inhibition of the mammalian biosynthesis of leukotrienes also indicates that the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are useful to treat prevent or ameliorate atherosclerosis in mammals and especially in humans. Therefore the compounds of Formula I can be used for the treatment of atherosclerosis comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ito a patient in need of such treatment. A further aspect of this invention involves a method for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ito a patient in need of such treatment for example a patient who is at risk of developing atherosclerosis.

Atherosclerosis is characterized by the deposition of atheromatous plaques containing cholesterol and lipids on the innermost layer of the walls of large and medium sized arteries. Atherosclerosis encompasses vascular diseases and conditions that are recognized and understood by physicians practicing in the relevant fields of medicine. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease including restenosis following revascularization procedures coronary heart disease also known as coronary artery disease or ischemic heart disease cerebrovascular disease including multi infarct dementia and peripheral vessel disease including erectile dysfunction are all clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis and are therefore encompassed by the terms atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease. 

A FLAP inhibitor of this invention may be administered to prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence or recurrence where the potential exists of a coronary heart disease CHD event a cerebrovascular event and or intermittent claudication. Coronary heart disease events are intended to include CHD death myocardial infarction i.e. a heart attack and coronary revascularization procedures. Cerebrovascular events are intended to include ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke also known as cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks. Intermittent claudication is a clinical manifestation of peripheral vessel disease. The term atherosclerotic disease event as used herein is intended to encompass coronary heart disease events cerebrovascular events and intermittent claudication. It is intended that persons who have previously experienced one or more non fatal atherosclerotic disease events are those for whom the potential for recurrence of such an event exists.

Accordingly the instant invention also provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event comprising the administration of a prophylactically effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor of Formula I to a patient at risk for such an event. The patient may already have atherosclerotic disease at the time of administration or may be at risk for developing it.

The method of this invention particularly serves to prevent or slow new atherosclerotic lesion or plaque formation and to prevent or slow progression of existing lesions or plaques as well as to cause regression of existing lesions or plaques. Accordingly one aspect of this invention encompassed within the scope of treatment of atherosclerosis involves a method for halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerosis including halting or slowing atherosclerotic plaque progression comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor of Formula I to a patient in need of such treatment. This method also includes halting or slowing progression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun i.e. existing atherosclerotic plaques as well as halting or slowing formation of new atherosclerotic plaques in patients with atherosclerosis.

Another aspect of this invention encompassed within the scope of treatment of atherosclerosis involves a method for regression of atherosclerosis including regression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor of Formula I to a patient in need of such treatment. Another aspect of this invention involves a method for preventing or reducing the risk of atherosclerotic plaque rupture comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor of Formula I to a patient in need of such treatment.

The ability of the compounds of Formula I to inhibit biosynthesis of the leukotrienes makes them useful for preventing or reversing the symptoms induced by the leukotrienes in a human subject. This inhibition of the mammalian biosynthesis of leukotrienes indicates that the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are useful to prevent or reduce the risk for treat or ameliorate in mammals and especially in humans 1 pulmonary disorders including diseases such as asthma chronic bronchitis and related obstructive airway diseases 2 allergies and allergic reactions such as allergic rhinitis contact dermatitis allergic conjunctivitis and the like 3 inflammation such as arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease 4 pain 5 skin disorders such as atopic eczema and the like 6 cardiovascular disorders such as angina formation of atherosclerotic plaques myocardial ischemia hypertension platelet aggregation and the like 7 renal insufficiency arising from ischaemia induced by immunological or chemical cyclosporin etiology and 8 migraine or cluster headache 9 ocular conditions such as uveitis 10 hepatitis resulting from chemical immunological or infectious stimuli 11 trauma or shock states such as burn injuries endotoxemia and the like 12 allograft rejection 13 prevention of side effects associated with therapeutic administration of cytokines such as Interleukin II and tumor necrosis factor 14 chronic lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis bronchitis and other small and large airway diseases 15 cholecystitis 16 multiple sclerosis 17 proliferation of myoblastic leukemia cells 18 pulmonary fibrosis 19 respiratory syncytial virus 20 acne and 21 sleep apnea. Moreover the compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis including seasonal allergic rhinitis.

Particularly the compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the prophylaxis of asthma and for chronic treatment of asthma. The compounds of this invention can be administered to patients including adult and pediatric patients for the treatment of asthma 1 as an alternative to low dose inhaled corticosteroids ICS for patients with mild persistent asthma 2 as concomitant therapy with low dose inhaled corticosteroids ICS for patients with mild persistent asthma or 3 as concomitant therapy in patients with persistent asthma who are inadequately controlled on inhaled corticosteroids ICS or on combined ICS long acting beta agonist LABA therapy. The compounds can be used for treatment of asthmatic patients including but not limited to steroid resistant non responder asthmatics asthmatics for whom leukotriene modifiers have previously failed smoking asthmatics and aspirin sensitive asthmatics.

The compounds can be administered to patients to 1 improve FEV1 Forced Expitory Volume in one minute 2 improve morning and evening PEF Peak Expitory flow 3 reduce beta agonist use measured by puffs day 4 reduce inhaled systemic steroid use. 5 improve daytime asthma symptoms 6 reduce number of nocturnal awakenings 7 improve asthma control days 8 reduce number of asthma exacerbations wherein an exacerbation is defined as requiring systemic steroid an emergency room visit hospitalization an unscheduled asthma related doctor visit decrease in A.M. PEF by 20 or A.M. PEF 70 from baseline minimum increase 2 puffs or increased symptom score of 50 9 reduce the number of asthma attacks measured as of days with at least one attack over a specified period of total days wherein the attack is one that requires systemic steroid use an emergency room visit hospitalization or an unscheduled asthma related doctor visit 10 reduce the number of acute asthma attacks 11 reduce blood and sputum eosinophils and or 12 prevent and treat EIB exercised induced bronchoconstriction .

The FLAP inhibitors of this invention can also be used in a therapeutically effective amount for promoting osteogenesis in a patient in need of such treatment. For example the compounds could be used to promote osteogenesis to accelerate or enhance bone fracture healing treat bone defects and enhance bone formation. The compounds can be administered alone or in combination with one or more additional active agents that inhibit bone resorption regulate calcium resorption from bone enhance bone accumulation enhance bone formation induce bone formation impair growth of microorganisms reduce inflammation and or reduce pain.

The compounds of the present invention may also be used to treat or prevent mammalian especially human disease states such as erosive gastritis erosive esophagitis diarrhea cerebral spasm premature labor spontaneous abortion dysmenorrhea ischemia noxious agent induced damage or necrosis of hepatic pancreatic renal or myocardial tissue liver parenchymal damage caused by hepatoxic agents such as CCland D galactosamine ischemic renal failure disease induced hepatic damage bile salt induced pancreatic or gastric damage trauma or stress induced cell damage and glycerol induced renal failure. Leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors also act as inhibitors of tumor metastasis and exhibit cytoprotective action and therefore the compounds of this invention may also be useful in this regard.

The FLAP inhibitors of this invention can also be administered for prevention amelioration and treatment of glomerulonephritis see Guasch A. Zayas C. F. Badr K F. 1999 MK 591 acutely restores glomerular size selectivity and reduces proteinuria in human glomerulonephritis Kidney Int. 56 261 267 and also for and prevention amelioration and treatment of kidney damage resulting from diabetes complications see Valdivielso J M Montero A. Badr K F. Munger K A. 2003 Inhibition of FLAP decreases proteinuria in diabetic rats J. Nephrol. 16 1 85 940. 

In addition the compounds of this invention can also be used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD . As described in S. Kilfeather Chest 2002 vol 121 197 airway neutrophilia in COPD patients is believed to be a contributing source of inflammation and is associated with airway remodeling. The presence of neutrophils is mediated in part by LTB and treatment with the instant compounds could be used to reduce neutrophilic inflammation in patients with COPD and reduce the rate of COPD exacerbations. In particular the compounds of this invention could be used for daily preferably once daily maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction associated with COPD including chronic bronchitis and emphysema.

The cytoprotective activity of a compound may be observed in both animals and man by noting the increased resistance of the gastrointestinal mucosa to the noxious effects of strong irritants for example the ulcerogenic effects of aspirin or indomethacin. In addition to lessening the effect of non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs on the gastrointestinal tract animal studies show that cytoprotective compounds will prevent gastric lesions induced by oral administration of strong acids strong bases ethanol hypertonic saline solutions and the like. Two assays can be used to measure cytoprotective ability. These assays are A an ethanol induced lesion assay and B an indomethacin induced ulcer assay and are described in EP 140 684.

In particular the compounds of the invention would be useful to reduce the gastric erosion caused by co administration of a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor and low dose aspirin. Cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitors are widely used as effective anti inflammatory drugs with less potential for gastrointestinal complications as compared to traditional non selective non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs. However the combined use of a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor with low dose aspirin for cardio protection may compromise the gastrointestinal safety of this class of compounds. By virtue of its activity as a 5 lipoxygenase inhibitor the compounds of the invention would be expected to be gastric protective in this regard. See Fiorucci et al. FASEB J. 17 1171 1173 2003. Cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitors for use with the invention include but are not limited to etoricoxib ARCOXIA and celecoxib CELEBREX . A compound of this invention in combination with a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor could be administered in unit dosage form or separately to a patient on low dose aspirin therapy. Alternatively the cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor could be administered in unit dosage form with low dose aspirin in which case a compound of this invention would be administered separately. All three active ingredients in unit dosage form is also encompassed. Conventional dosage amounts of the cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor and aspirin for cardio protection may be utilized. Aspirin could be administered at 81 mg once daily.

The term patient includes mammals especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of onset of atherosclerosis.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The term prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment to slow progression of existing atherosclerosis and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of an atherosclerotic disease event or formation of new lesions.

In general FLAP inhibitors can be identified as those compounds which have an ICin the FLAP Binding Assay that is less than or equal to 1 M and preferably 500 nM or less more preferably 100 nM or less and most preferably 25 nM or less.

An effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor in the method of this invention is in the range of about 0.01 mg kg to about 30 mg kg of body weight per day preferably 0.1 mg to about 15 mg per kg and most preferably 0.5 to 7.5 mg per kg in single or divided doses. A single daily dose is preferred but not necessary. For an average body weight of 70 kg the dosage level is therefore from about 1 mg to about 2000 mg of drug per day e.g. 10 mg 25 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg 125 mg 150 mg 175 mg 200 mg 250 mg or 500 mg per day preferably given as a single daily dose or in divided doses two to four times a day or in sustained release form. It will be understood however that the specific dose level for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration route of administration rate of excretion drug combination and the severity of the patient s condition. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is expected that the FLAP inhibitor will administered chronically on a daily basis for a length of time appropriate to treat or prevent the medical condition relevant to the patient including a course of therapy lasting months years or the life of the patient.

One or more additional active agents may be administered with a compound of Formula I. The term additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents different from the compound of Formula I. In a broad embodiment any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents and agents used for the treatment of metabolic syndrome may be used in combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation or may be administered to the patient in a separate dosage formulation which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents. The additional active agent or agents may have more than one pharmaceutical activity for example it may have both lipid modifying effects and anti diabetic activity. Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to HMG CoA reductase inhibitors which include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin MEVACOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin ZOCOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof PRAVACHOL see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof LESCOL see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof LIPITOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 pitavastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 5 lipoxygenase inhibitors cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors for example JTT 705 HMG CoA synthase inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT 1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors niacin niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists bile acid sequestrants LDL low density lipoprotein receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidinediones as well as those PPAR agonists outside the thiazolidinedione structural class PPAR agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil PPAR dual agonists vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin B also known as cyanocobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers angiotensin II antagonists such as losartan and losartan with hydrochlorothiazide angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors such as enalapril and captopril calcium channel blockers such as nifedipine and diltiazam endothelian antagonists agents that enhance ABCA1 gene expression FXR and LXR ligands including both inhibitors and agonists bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium and cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors such as etoricoxib celecoxib and valdecoxib. Anti obesity agents can be employed in combination with a compound of this invention including but not limited to sibunamine orlistat topiramate naltrexone bupriopion phentermine and phentermine topiramate combination QNEXA NPY5 antagonists Acetyl CoA Carboxylase 1 and 2 ACC inhibitors MCH1R antagonists and CB1 antagonists inverse agonists such as those described in WO03 077847 and WO05 000809. Additional anti diabetes agents which may be employed in combination with a compound of this invention include but are not limited to DPP 4 dipeptidylpeptidase 4 inhibitors such as sitagliptin JANUVIA and vildagliptin GALVUS sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide tolazamide glyburide glipizide and glimepiride biguanides e.g. metformin alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose and miglitol meglitinides e.g. repaglinide glucagon receptor antagonists and glucokinase activators.

Other advantageous pharmaceutical combinations comprise the compounds of this invention in combination with anti cholinergics such as ipratropium bromide and tiotropium bronchodilators such as the beta agonist salbutamol metaproterenol terbutaline fenoterol salmeterol formoterol and the like and the anti asthmatic drugs theophylline choline theophyllinate and enprofylline the calcium antagonists nifedipine diltiazem nitrendipine verapamil nimodipine felodipine etc. and the corticosteroids hydrocortisone methylprednisolone betamethasone dexamethasone beclomethasone and the like. Particularly for the prophylaxis and treatment of asthma compounds of this invention can be used in combination with orally inhaled corticosteroids such as beclomethasone e.g. QVAR Inhalation Aerosol budesonide e.g. Pulmicort Respules flunisolide e.g. AEROBID and AEROBID M Inhaler System fluticasone e.g. FLOVENT DISKUS inhalation powder FLOVENT HFA Inhalation Aerosol mometasone e.g. ASMANEX TWISTHALER and triamcinolone e.g. AZMACORT Inhalation Aerosol and also with inhaled corticosteroid LABA products such as fluticasone propionate salmeterol e.g. ADVAIR DISKUS . The instant compounds could also be used in combination with leukotriene receptor antagonists such as montelukast e.g. SINGULAIR phosphodiesterase 4 PDE4 inhibitors such as roflumilast N Cyclopropyl 1 3 1 oxido 3 pyridinylethynyl phenyl 1 4 dihydro 1 8 naphthyridin 4 one 3 carboxamide and the compounds disclosed in PCT Publication WO2003 018579 and Very Late Antigen 4 VLA4 inhibitors such as the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 011 particularly R411 N 2 Chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 4 2 6 dichlorobenzoyl amino L phenylalanine 2 diethylamino ethyl ester which is an ester pro drug of the active moiety N 2 chloro 6 methylbenzoyl 4 2 6 dichlorobenzoyl amino L phenylalanine and the compounds disclosed in PCT publication WO2006 023396.

Still another type of agent that can be used in combination with the compounds of this invention are cholesterol absorption inhibitors. Cholesterol absorption inhibitors block the movement of cholesterol from the intestinal lumen into enterocytes of the small intestinal wall. This blockade is their primary mode of action in reducing serum cholesterol levels. These compounds are distinct from compounds which reduce serum cholesterol levels primarily by mechanisms of action such as acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyl transferase ACAT inhibition inhibition of triglyceride synthesis MTP inhibition bile acid sequestration and transcription modulation such as agonists or antagonists of nuclear hormones. Cholesterol absorption inhibitors include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 966 U.S. Pat. No. 5 631 365 U.S. Pat. No. 5 767 115 U.S. Pat. No. 6 133 001 U.S. Pat. No. 5 886 171 U.S. Pat. No. 5 856 473 U.S. Pat. No. 5 756 470 U.S. Pat. No. 5 739 321 U.S. Pat. No. 5 919 672 U.S. Pat. No. 6 498 156 US2004 0082561 US2004 0067913 US2004 0063929 US2002 0137689 WO 05 047248 WO 05 021497 WO 05 021495 WO 05 000353 WO 04 005247 WO 00 63703 WO 00 60107 WO 00 38725 WO 00 34240 WO 00 20623 WO 97 45406 WO 97 16424 WO 97 16455 and WO 95 08532. An exemplary cholesterol absorption inhibitor is ezetimibe marketed in the U.S. under the tradename ZETIA described in U.S. Pat. No. Re 37721 and the Physician s Desk Reference as well as VYTORIN which is a combination of ezetimibe with simvastatin.

This and other cholesterol absorption inhibitors can be identified according to the assay of hypolipidemic compounds using the hyperlipidemic hamster described in U.S. Pat. Re 37721 beginning in column 20 in which hamsters are fed a controlled cholesterol diet and dosed with test compounds for seven days. Plasma lipid analysis is conducted and data is reported as percent reduction of lipid versus control.

Therapeutically effective amounts of cholesterol absorption inhibitors include dosages of from about 0.01 mg kg to about 30 mg kg of body weight per day preferably about 0.1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg. For an average body weight of 70 kg the dosage level is therefore from about 0.7 mg to about 2100 mg of drug per day e.g. 10 20 40 100 or 200 mg per day preferably given as a single daily dose or in divided doses two to six times a day or in sustained release form. This dosage regimen may be adjusted to provide the optimal therapeutic response when the cholesterol absorption inhibitor is used in combination with a compound of the instant invention.

In the method of treatment of this invention the FLAP inhibitors may be administered via any suitable route of administration such as orally parenterally or rectally in dosage unit formulations containing conventional non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular infrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Oral formulations are preferred.

For oral use the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention containing the active ingredient may be in forms such as tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents selected from the group consisting of sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparations. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents for example corn starch or alginic acid binding agents for example starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents for example magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc.

Oral immediate release and time controlled release dosage forms may be employed as well as enterically coated oral dosage forms. Tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed. One example of a time controlled release device is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 366 738. They may also be coated by the technique described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 256 108 4 166 452 and 4 265 874 to form osmotic therapeutic tablets for controlled release.

Formulations for oral use may also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredients is mixed with water or miscible solvents such as propylene glycol PEGs and ethanol or an oil medium for example peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions contain the active material in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients are suspending agents for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxy propylmethycellulose sodium alginate polyvinyl pyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents may be a naturally occurring phosphatide for example lecithin or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids for example polyoxyethylene stearate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols for example heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions may also contain one or more preservatives for example ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more colouring agents one or more flavouring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose saccharin or aspartame.

Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set forth above and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid.

Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the addition of water provide the active ingredient in admixture with a dispersing or wetting agent suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional excipients for example sweetening flavoring and coloring agents may also be present.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may also be in the form of an oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil for example olive oil or arachis oil or a mineral oil for example liquid paraffin or mixtures of these. Suitable emulsifying agents may be naturally occurring phosphatides for example soy bean lecithin and esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The emulsions may also contain sweetening and flavouring agents.

Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations may also contain a demulcent a preservative and flavoring and coloring agents. The pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oleagenous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. Cosolvents such as ethanol propylene glycol or polyethylene glycols may also be used. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of injectables.

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for treating or preventing any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein. For example a compound of Formula I can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerotic disease halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically manifest and preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event. Additionally the medicament may be useful for the treatment of asthma allergies and allergic conditions inflammation COPD or erosive gastritis. The medicament comprised of a compound of Formula I may also be prepared with one or more additional active agents such as those described herein.

The compounds of structural Formula I of the present invention can be prepared according to the procedures of the following Schemes and Examples using appropriate materials and are further exemplified by the specific examples which follow. Moreover by utilizing the procedures described herein one of ordinary skill in the art can readily prepare additional compounds of the present invention claimed herein. The compounds illustrated in the examples are not however to be construed as forming the only genus that is considered as the invention. All temperatures are degrees Celsius unless otherwise noted. Mass spectra MS were measured by electron spray ion mass spectroscopy ES MS .

The instant compounds are generally isolated in a pharmaceutically acceptable form which can either be the free base or free acid if an acid group is present or an appropriate salt derivative such as those described above. The free amine bases corresponding to the isolated salts can be generated by neutralization with a suitable base such as aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate sodium carbonate sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide and extraction of the liberated amine free base into an organic solvent followed by evaporation. The amine free base isolated in this manner can be further converted into another pharmaceutically acceptable salt by dissolution in an organic solvent followed by addition of the appropriate acid and subsequent evaporation precipitation or crystallization.

ABCA1 is adenosyltriphosphate binding cassette family A1 Ac is acetyl AIBN is 2 2 azobis 2 methylpropionitrile aq. is aqueous Ar is Aryl Bn is benzyl Doc is tertbutylcarbamoyl br is broad Bu is butyl Bu is tert butyl celite is Celite diatomaceous earth cpm is counts per minute is chemical shift DCM is dichloromethane d is doublet DEAD is diethylazodicarboxylate DIAD is diisopropylazodicarboxylate DIPEA is diisopropylethylamine DMAP is 4 dimethylaminopyridine DMF is N N dimethylformamide dppf is 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene DMSO is dimethyl sulfoxide EDC is N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDTA is ethylendiamine tetraacetic acid equiv. is equivalent s ES MS is electrospray ion mass spectroscopy Et is ethyl EtO is diethyl ether EtOH is ethanol EtOAc is ethyl acetate FXR is farnesoid X receptor g is gram h is hours HATU is O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HetAr or HAR is Heteroaryl HMG CoA is 3 hydroxy 3 methyl glutaryl coenzyme A HNMR is proton nuclear magnetic resonance HOAt is 1 hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole HOBt is 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HPLC is high performance liquid chromatography Hz is hertz i is Iso ICis concentration at which 50 inhibition exists J is internuclear coupling constant kg is kilogram LG is leaving group LTBis leukotriene BLXR is liver X receptor m is multiplet M is molar Me is methyl m.p. is melting point mg is milligram g is microgram MeCN is acetonitrile MeOH is methanol MHz is megahertz min is minute mL is milliliter mm is millimeter L is microliter mM is milimolar M is micromolar mmol is milimoles Ms is methanesulfonyl MS is mass spectrum and a mass spectrum obtained by ES MS may be denoted herein by ES m z is mass to charge ratio n is normal nm is nanometer nM is nanomolar NMM is N methylmorpholine NMO is N methylmorpholine N oxide NMP is N methylpyrrolidin 2 one nPr is n propyl p is pentet p is para PEG is polyethylene glycol Ph is phenyl Phth is phthalimidoyl PPAR is peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha Pr is propyl iPr is isopropyl PyBOP is benzotriaxole 1 yl oxy tris pyrrolidino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate q is quartet rt is room temperature s is singlet sec is secondary t is triplet BuOH is tert butanol tert is tertiary Tf is trifluoromethanesulfonyl TFA is trifluoroacetic acid and THF is tetrahydrofuran Ts is tosyl UV is ultraviolet x g is times gravity C. is degrees Celsius.

Reaction schemes A R illustrate the methods employed in the synthesis of the compounds of Formula I. All abbreviations are as defined above unless indicated otherwise. In reaction schemes A R substituents on the rings are labeled with R which corresponds to R Rand Ras defined in structural Formula I. In the Schemes all substituents are as defined above in Formula I unless indicated otherwise.

Reaction schemes A R illustrate the methods employed in the synthesis of the compounds of the present invention of structural Formula I. All abbreviations are as defined above unless indicated otherwise. In reaction schemes A R substituents on the rings are labeled with R which corresponds to R Rand Ras defined in structural Formula I.

Reaction scheme A illustrates a preferred method of synthesis of a compound type 8. In this method a ketone or aldehyde of type 1 is treated with an organometallic reagent of type 2 capable of transferring an aryl group to afford a compound of type 3. Preferred organometallic reagents for effecting this transformation include organolithium 2 M Li and organomagnesium 2 M Mg Grignard compounds. When organolithium reagents are employed the reaction can be conducted in a variety of solvents such as hexanes or diethyl ether or the like at temperatures between 78 C. and rt. When Grignard reagents are employed as shown in scheme A it is customary to conduct the reaction in a suitable ethereal solvent such as THF or diethyl ether or mixtures thereof at temperatures between 78 C. and the boiling temperature of the solvent. The organolithium and Grignard reagents are commonly purchased from commercial sources but can be prepared synthetically according to known methods of organic synthesis. The resulting alcohol 3 can be treated with a protected aminomethylfuran derivative of type 4 in an electrophilic aromatic substitution process generally referred to as a Friedel Crafts arylation reaction. The preferred protecting group for the amino functionality in 4 as depicted in scheme A is phthalimide but is by no means limited to such a group. Typical conditions for performing the arylation of 3 include the generation of an intermediate carbocation of type 5 derived from 3 followed by in situ trapping with a suitable aromatic coupling partner of type 4 to afford a product of type 6. It is customary to conduct the reaction in the presence of either suitable Bronstead acids such as tetrafluoboric acid or the like or Lewis acids such as boron trifluoride or the like 2005 127 9348 9349 . The reaction may also be performed in the presence of a variety of inert organic solvents such as dichloromethane or 1 2 dichloroethane or the like at temperatures typically between 78 C. and rt. Preferred conditions for removal of the phthalimide protecting group involve treatment of 6 with reagents such as sodium methoxide or hydrazine or n butylamine in solvents such as MeOH or EtOH at temperatures typically between rt and the boiling temperature of the solvent. The product of the reaction is an amine of type 7 which can be transformed to a compound of type 8 in the presence of a suitable activating reagent such as bromine or iodine or additionally aqueous hydrochloric or hydrobromic acid. The reaction can be conducted in a variety of aqueous solvent mixtures that include solvents such as MeOH or EtOH or the like at temperatures between it and 20 C. The product 8 can be further elaborated to other compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme B illustrates a preferred method of synthesis of a compound of type 16. In this method an acid chloride derivative of type 9 often generated from the respective carboxylic acid precursor using methods known to those skilled in the art of organic synthesis is treated with an organometallic reagent of type 10 or type 11 to afford a product of type 12. Preferred organometallic reagents for effecting this transformation include organomagnesium Grignard and organozinc compounds. When Grignard reagents 10 are employed the preferred conditions are similar to those described in scheme A. When organozinc reagents 11 are employed the reaction is generally conducted in the presence of a suitable organotransition metal catalyst such as bis triphenylphosphino palladium II dichloride or copper I chloride or the like in a variety of solvents such as THF or diethyl ether at temperatures between 20 C. and rt 1993 93 2117 2188 . The Grignard and organozinc reagents are commonly purchased from commercial sources but can be prepared synthetically according to known methods of organic synthesis. The resulting ketone 12 can then be treated with an organometallic reagent of type 2 under similar conditions to those described in scheme A to furnish a product of type 13. The hydroxyl group in 13 can be removed in a reaction sequence commonly referred to as the Barton McCombie Deoxygenation 1975 1574 1585 . The reaction process requires initial activation of the hydroxyl moiety which is achieved via alkylation of this group with a reagent such as phenyl thionochloroformate in the presence of a suitable tertiary amine base such as pyridine to afford a thiocarbonate derivative of type 14. Acylations of this type can be conducted in a variety of inert organic solvents such as dichloromethane or 1 2 dichloroethane at temperatures typically between 20 C. and rt. Alternatively a xanthate derivative of type 15 may also be prepared often by a three step sequence involving treatment of 13 with a base such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride followed by introduction of carbon disulfide and finally in situ alkylation with an agent such as methyl iodide. Xanthate formation is generally performed in an ethereal solvent such as THF or diethyl ether at temperatures typically between 20 C. and rt. Deoxygenation of 14 or 15 can be effected with a reducing agent such as a trialkylltin hydride often in the presence of a free radical initiator such as AIBN or the like. Reactions of this type are performed in an inert organic solvent such as benzene or toluene or dimethoxyethane that has been appropriately degassed and at temperatures often corresponding to the boiling temperature of the solvent. It may be preferable to use an additive such as potassium iodide or tetrabutylammonium iodide or the like to accelerate or promote the reaction. The product is a compound of type 16 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme C illustrates an alternative method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 20. In this method a compound of type 17 is treated with bis pinacolato diboron in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II and an auxiliary nucleophile such as potassium acetate or the like. The reaction is generally conducted in an inert organic solvent such as DMSO or dioxane or the like at elevated temperatures generally between 70 C. and 100 C. for a period of 1 24 h 1995 60 7508 7510 . The product of this reaction is an intermediate boronate of type 18 which can participate in organotransition metal catalyzed cross coupling reactions commonly referred to as the Suzuki reaction in which the aforementioned boronate 18 is treated with an aryl or heteroaryl coupling partner of type 19 in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II or tetrakistripheny 1 phosphinepalladium 0 or the like and a base such as aqueous sodium carbonate or aqueous tribasic sodium phosphate or the like 1991 63 419 422 . The reaction is usually performed in an inert organic solvent such as a toluene EtOH mixture or dioxane at temperatures above rt for a period of 3 24 h. Recent advancements in the Suzuki reaction have allowed this type of transformation to be conducted in many cases at rt for example see 2000 122 4020 4028 and references cited therein . The product is a compound of type 20 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme D illustrates a preferred method of synthesis of compounds of type 23. In this method an aryl iodide of type 21 is treated with an alcohol of type 22 in the presence of a copper I catalyst and a suitable ligand such as 1 10 phenanthroline. The reaction is performed in the presence of a mild base such as cesium carbonate or potassium fluoride alumina in a non polar solvent such as toluene at elevated temperatures between 100 C. and the boiling point of the solvent for reaction times up to 48 h. 2002 4 973 976. and 2005 1101 1104. Recent literature exists for performing the above method in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst ligand system. 2005 127 8146 8149 and references cited therein. The product of the reaction is 23 which was be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme E illustrates the preferred method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 28 and 29. In this method compounds of type 21 are treated with agents of type 24 in which PG is a suitable protecting group exemplified by but not limited to tert butyldimethylsilyl and X is a suitable leaving group such as halide mesylate or trifluoromethylsulfonate to afford protected hydroxypyridine compounds of type 25. The reaction may be performed under a variety of conditions known to those skilled in the art. Greene T. W. Wuts P. G. M. Wiley Interscience 1999 3Edn. and references therein Compounds of type 25 can then be treated with a terminal alkyne of type 26 in an organotransition metal catalyzed cross coupling process commonly referred to as the Sonogashira reaction. The reaction is performed in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst and a copper I co catalyst such as copper I iodide and typically employs an excess of an amine base such as triethylamine and diethylamine. The reaction is conducted in an inert organic solvent such as DMF at temperatures ranging from ambient temperature to about 100 C. for a period of 3 24 hours. The product of the reaction is an alkyne of type 27 which can then be converted into an alkene derivative of type 28 or a saturated alkane derivative of type 29. If 28 is desired preferred conditions for performing the partial reduction of 27 involve the use of a Lindlar catalyst reagent system under an atmospheric or elevated pressure of hydrogen. The reaction is usually conducted in an inert organic solvent such as EtOH and EtOAc or combinations thereof and at room temperature for a period of 3 15 hours. If 29 is desired then the reduction of 27 is performed with any one of a variety of palladium on carbon catalysts at either atmospheric or elevated pressure of hydrogen. Products of the reaction can be deprotected following procedures cited in the above reference and elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme F illustrates a preferred method for the synthesis of compounds of the structural formula 32. In this method 30 is reacted with a triflating agent such as trifluoromethansulfonic anhydride or 2 N N bis trifluoromethansulfonyl amino pyridine or the like in the presence of a tertiary amine base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine to afford an intermediate compound of type 31. The triflating reaction is typically performed in aprotic organic solvents such as DCM or THF at temperatures that range from 78 C. to room temperature. Compounds of type 31 can be treated with methanol in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II or the like and a tertiary amine base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine or the like in an inert organic solvent like DMF. The reaction is usually conducted at elevated temperature typically between 50 C. and 100 C. for periods of 3 24 h under an atmosphere of carbon monoxide 1986 27 3931 3934 . In certain cases it may be preferable to use elevated pressures of carbon monoxide or an additive such as lithium chloride to promote or accelerate the reaction. The product of the reaction is an ester of structural formula 32 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme G illustrates a preferred method for the elaboration of a compound type 31 to afford a compound of type 33. In this method 31 is treated with a cyanide source such as potassium cyanide or trimethylsilylcyanide or the like in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst ligand reagent system. It may be preferable to use an inorganic additive such as a copper I salt and or a base such as triethylamine to accelerate or promote the reaction. It is customary to conduct the reaction in inert organic solvent preferably a dipolar aprotic solvent such as DMF or NMP or MeCN at elevated reaction temperatures typically between 50 140 C. for a period of 3 24 hours. The product of the reaction is a nitrile of type 33 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention I as described in subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme H illustrates a preferred method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 36 following methods similar to those previously described in Scheme C. Compounds of type 36 that are derived from inputs of type 34 or 35 that contain additional functional groups can be elaborated in numerous ways known in organic synthesis to furnish other compounds of the present invention I .

Reaction scheme I illustrates a preferred method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 36 following methods similar to those previously described in Scheme C.

Reaction scheme J illustrates a preferred method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 39. In this method compounds of type 32 can be hydrolyzed to carboxylic acids of type 39 using a variety of methods known to those skilled in organic synthesis. The product carboxylic acid of structural formula 39 can be used in a variety of methods known in organic synthesis to afford compounds of the present invention I .

Reaction scheme K illustrates the preferred method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 40 41 and 42. In this method 31 is treated with either allyltributylstannane or vinyltributylstannane in the presence of a suitable palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II in an inert organic solvent like DMF or NMP. The reaction is usually conducted at elevated temperatures typically between 50 120 C. for periods of 2 24 hours. In certain cases it may be essential to use an additive such as lithium chloride to promote the reaction. Often the reaction times can be significantly reduced if the reaction is conducted under microwave irradiation. The product of the reaction is an alkene of structural formula 40 which can be synthetically elaborated using a variety of methods known in organic synthesis. For example 40 can be oxidatively cleaved to afford an aldehyde of type 41 which can be further oxidized to a carboxylic acid derivative of structural formula 42. A preferred method for the oxidative cleavage reaction is the two step process shown in reaction scheme I. Alkene 40 is first oxidized to a vicinal diol using catalytic osmium tetraoxide in the presence of a stoichiometric reoxidant such as NMO in a solvent system such as acetone water. The intermediate vicinal diol which forms is generally not isolated but is in turn subjected to cleavage with sodium periodate in a suitable mixed solvent system like THF water to afford 41. Both steps in the oxidative cleavage sequence are generally completed during periods of several minutes to a few hours at temperatures between 0 C. and room temperature. Aldehyde 41 can then be further oxidized to 42 using a buffered chlorite oxidation system. In this method 41 is treated with sodium chlorite and monobasic sodium phosphate in the presence of a chlorine scavenger such as 2 methyl 2 butene. The reaction is conducted typically in a solvent system like n butanol water for periods of 1 6 hours at temperatures between 0 C. and room temperature. In certain cases 41 can be directly converted to 42 using the sodium periodate ruthenium trichloride reagent system. Both 41 and 42 can be elaborated in numerous ways known in organic synthesis to furnish other compounds of the present invention I .

Reaction scheme L illustrates the preferred method of synthesis of a compound of type 43. In this method compounds of type 31 can be reduced by treatment with an appropriate reducing agent such as a trialkylammonium formate or ammonium formate or triethylsilane or the like in the presence of a suitable homogeneous palladium catalyst such as 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II in an inert organic solvent preferably a polar aprotic solvent such as DMF or NMP. The reaction is usually run at elevated temperatures typically between 50 90 C. to afford an aryl compound of type 43.

Reaction scheme M illustrates the preferred method of synthesis of compounds of structural formula 45. In the most general case 42 is treated with an amine of type 44 to afford an amide of type 45. The amide bond coupling reaction illustrated in reaction scheme M is conducted in an appropriate inert solvent such as DMF DCM or the like and may be performed with a variety of reagents suitable for amide coupling reactions such as HATU EDC or PyBOP. Preferred conditions for the amide bond coupling reaction shown in reaction Scheme M are known to those skilled in organic synthesis. Such modifications may include but are not limited to the use of basic reagents such as triethylamine DIPEA or NMM or the addition of an additive such as HOAt or HOBt. Alternatively 44 may be treated with an activated ester or acid chloride derivative of 42 which also affords 45. The amide bond coupling shown in reaction Scheme M is usually conducted at a temperatures between 0 C. and room temperature occasionally at elevated temperatures and the coupling reaction is typically conducted for periods of 1 to 24 hours.

Reaction scheme N illustrates a preferred method for the synthesis of a compound of type 47. In this method 42 is subjected to the Curtius reaction to afford the N Boc protected amine derivative of structural formula 46. The reaction is performed by reacting 42 with diphenylphosphoryl azide in the presence of a tertiary amine such as triethylamine or DIPEA in a solvent such as toluene. The initial product is generally accepted to be the acyl azide which is rearranged to the isocyanate in a thermal process analogous to the Wolff rearrangement of acyl carbenes. The rearrangment is conducted typically at the reflux temperature of the solvent for instance 110 C. and the rearrangement is usually completed in periods of 1 5 hours. The intermediate isocyanate which forms is generally not isolated but is in turn subjected to in situ reaction with a suitable alcohol such as tert butyl alcohol to afford carbamate 46. The N Boc group can be removed by a suitable deprotection method such as treatment with hydrogen chloride in EtOAc or TFA in DCM. The deprotection is conducted typically at temperatures between 0 C. and room temperature and the reaction is usually complete in 0.5 3 hours. The product amine of structural formula 47 can be used as a coupling partner using a variety of methods known in organic synthesis to afford compounds of the present invention.

Reaction scheme O illustrates preferred methods for the syntheses of compounds of type 50. For example 47 can participate in amide bond coupling reactions with a carboxylic acid of type 48 to afford an amide of structural formula 50 using the reagents and conditions described for the generalized amide coupling protocol shown in reaction Scheme O in the presence of a suitable tertiary amine base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine or the like. Alternatively 47 may also be treated with an activated ester or acid chloride derivative of type 49 which also affords 50. Typical conditions for effecting such a transformation include treatment of 47 with acid chloride 49 in the presence of excess tertiary amine base such as triethylamine. It is customary to perform the reaction in an inert organic solvent such as DMF or DCM at temperatures between 0 C. and the reflux temperature of the solvent frequently at room temperature and for periods of 1 24 hours.

As shown in reaction scheme P 47 can also be elaborated using the Fukuyama modification of the Mitsunobu reaction Fukuyama T. Jow C. K. Cheung M. 1995 36 6373 74 . For example 47 may be reacted with an arylsulfonyl chloride such as 2 nitrobenzenesulfonyl chloride 4 nitrobenzenesulfonyl chloride or 2 4 dinitrobenzenesulfonyl chloride and a tertiary amine base such as 2 4 6 collidine or 2 6 lutidine in an inert organic solvent such as DCM. Alternatively the reaction can also be performed under the classical Schotten Baumann conditions as shown in scheme P in which 47 and the arylsulfonyl chloride are allowed to react in aqueous alkaline solution. The product of this reaction is the sulfonamide of type 51 which can be further modified by reaction with an alcohol of type 52 in the presence of triphenylphosphine and an activating agent such as DEAD DIAD or the like. The reaction is performed in a suitable inert organic solvent such as benzene toluene THF or mixtures thereof typically at room temperature and the reaction is generally complete in 0.5 3 hours. The product of this reaction is the dialkylsulfonamide of type 53 which can be desulfonylated by treatment with either a nucleophilic amine like n propylamine in a solvent such as DCM or with mercaptoacetic acid and triethylamine in DCM. In either case the reaction is conducted typically at room temperature for periods of 5 minutes to 1 hour. When a 2 or 4 nitrobenzenesulfonyl derivative is employed the cleavage of the sulfonamide is accomplished with either the combination of thiophenol and potassium carbonate in a solvent like DMF or with mercaptoacetic acid and lithium hydroxide in DMF. In either case the reaction is conducted at room temperature for periods of 1 3 hours. The secondary amine product of type 54 can be modified further using a variety of methods known in organic synthesis to provide other compounds of the present invention. For example 54 may be subjected to a reductive amination reaction with an aldehyde or ketone of type 55 using the conditions described in the bottom of reaction Scheme P to afford compounds of type 56.

Scheme Q illustrates in the most generalized manner how compounds of type 57 can be elaborated to a variety of heterocyclic derivatives of structural formula 58 using known methods in organic synthesis. Specific examples of such transformations are shown in the Examples section.

Scheme R illustrates the preferred method for the resolution of a racemic compound of structural formula 59 in which the asterisked carbon is a center of chirality. Generally the latter or intermediates en route to their preparation may be resolved to afford enantiomerically pure compounds such as 60 and 61 by chiral stationary phase liquid chromatography techniques or other suitable methods known in organic synthesis.

Intermediates used in the synthesis of compounds of this invention can be prepared using the following procedures. In the Tables associated with the following Schemes compounds having mass spectral data were synthetically prepared.

Furfurylamine 5.70 mL 61.8 mmol and phthalic anhydride 10.0 g 90.9 mmol were heated to 120 C. for 45 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and treated with EtOH. The resultant suspension was filtered to afford the title compound i 1a as an off white solid. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.88 dd 2H J 3.2 5.3 Hz 7.73 dd 2H J 3.0 5.5 Hz 6.38 d 1H J 3.2 Hz 6.32 m 1H 4.88 s 2H .

n Butyllithium 37.0 mL of a 2.5 M solution in hexanes 92.8 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 1 4 diiodobenzene 30.0 g 90.9 mmol in THF 200 mL at 78 C. After approximately 20 min 3 methyl 2 butanone 10.2 mL 95.5 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at 78 C. for about 1 h. The reaction mixture was poured into aqueous 1N HCl and extracted twice with diethyl ether. The combined organic extracts were washed water and brine dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 2a. m z ES 273 M OH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.67 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.20 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 2.00 m 1H 1.52 s 3H 0.92 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.81 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Tetrafluoroboric acid 13.0 mL of a 54 wt solution in diethyl ether 96.1 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 2a 23.2 g 80.1 mmol in DCM 200 mL at 78 C. After approximately 5 min i 1a 19.1 g 84.1 mmol was added in one portion and the resulting suspension stirred at 78 C. for about 15 min. After warming to rt over approximately 2 h the reaction mixture was quenched cautiously with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and the organic layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with DCM and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 5 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 2b. m z ES 500 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.88 dd 2H J 3.0 5.5 Hz 7.77 dd 2H J 3.0 5.5 Hz 7.47 dd 2H J 2.5 9.0 Hz 7.06 dd 2H J 2.3 8.8 Hz 6.24 d 1H J 3.0 Hz 6.01 d 1H J 3.0 Hz 4.85 m 2H 2.58 m 1H 1.50 s 3H 0.82 d 3H J 6.5 Hz 0.68 d 3H J 6.5 Hz .

Hydrazine monohydrate 27.0 mL 566 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 2b 18.8 g 37.8 mmol in EtOH 200 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for approximately 1 h then cooled to room temperature and filtered. The residue was washed four times with EtOAc and the collected filtrate was partially concentrated in vacuo. The resultant solution was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 2c. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.62 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.09 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.06 m 2H 3.81 s 2H 2.58 m 1H 1.55 s 3H 0.92 d 3H J 6.8 Hz 0.74 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Bromine 32.0 mL of a 1.0 M solution in MeOH was added dropwise via a pressure equalizing addition funnel to a stirred solution of i 2c 13.9 g 37.8 mmol in MeOH 15.0 mL and water 35.0 mL at 0 C. After approximately 1 h the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted twice with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 50 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 2d. m z ES 368 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.11 m 1H 7.55 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.08 m 3H 7.01 m 1H 2.94 m 1H 1.62 s 3H 0.83 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.79 d 3H J 6.8 Hz .

Enantiomers i 2e and i 2f were separated using preparative normal phase chiral HPLC. A solution of i 2d in MeOH was injected onto a CHIRALCEL OD H available from Chiral Technologies Inc. Exton Pa. semi preparative 250 21 mm HPLC column eluting with 15 MeOH COwith a column temperature of 40 C. at 50 mL min with UV detection at 220 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer i 2e having a retention time of 5.83 min and the slower eluting enantiomer i 2f having a retention time of 6.40 min. The separated fractions were concentrated to provide the enantiomers i 2e and i 2f. The enantiomer i 2f is preferred for making final products when Ris i propyl and Ris CH.

Intermediate 6 1 4 iodophenyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl pyridin 3 ol i 2g can be prepared from pivaldehyde in either racemic or chiral form following procedures similar to those described for preparing intermediates i 2d i 2e and i 2f.

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 700 mg 0.900 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of i 2f 16.6 g 45.2 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 12.1 g 47.5 mmol and potassium acetate 13.3 g 136 mmol in DMSO 150 mL at rt. The resulting suspension was heated to 80 C. for approximately 2 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title i 3a. m z ES 368 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.21 d 1H J 2.8 Hz 7.71 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.34 d 2H J 82 Hz 7.06 d 1H J 8.7 Hz 7.02 dd 1H J 2.8 8.7 Hz 3.02 m 1H 1.66 s 3H 1.33 s 12H 0.84 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.78 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium 1 700 mg 0.900 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 3a 16.6 g 45.2 mmol 3 bromo 5 methoxypyridine 10.2 g 54.2 mmol and sodium carbonate 68.0 mL of a 2.0 M aqueous solution 136 mmol in EtOH toluene 120 mL of an 80 20 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 95 C. for approximately 4 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 3b. m z ES 349 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.38 br s 1H 8.25 m 2H 7.44 m 4H 7.41 m 1H 7.10 dd 1H J 3.0 8.7 Hz 7.06 dt 1H J 2.8 8.5 Hz 3.92 d 3H J 0.9 Hz 3.05 m 1H 1.69 d 3H J 1.4 Hz 0.88 dd 3H J 1.1 6.4 Hz 0.83 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

2 N N Bis trifluoromethansulfonyl amino pyridine 14.7 g 41.1 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 3b 13.6 g 39.1 mmol triethylamine 7.10 mL 50.8 mmol and DMAP 10 mg in DCM 150 mL at 0 C. After approximately 30 min the reaction mixture was poured into saturate aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with DCM. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 40 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 3c. m z ES 481 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.59 d 1H J 3.0 Hz 8.47 d 1H J 1.3 Hz 8.30 d 1H J 2.5 Hz 7.53 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.52 m 1H 7.46 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.38 m 1H 7.36 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 3.94 s 3H 3.13 m 1H 1.76 s 3H 0.87 d 3H J 6.8 Hz 0.85 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 3c the following additional intermediates i 3d i 3e and i 3f i 3h can be prepared from i 2f and i 2g respectively. For example intermediate i 3f can be prepared following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of i 3c but substituting racemic or chiral i 2g in place of i 2f.

Intermediates i 3d and i 3e can be prepared from i 3a following procedures as described in scheme i 3 steps B and C but substituting 3 chloro 6 2 5 dimethyl 1H pyrrol 1 yl pyridazine or 5 bromo 2 2 5 dimethyl 1H pyrrol 1 yl pyrimidine in place of 3 bromo 5 methoxypyridine. Intermediates i 3g and i 3h can similarly be prepared but starting with racemic or chiral i 2g.

For i 3d m z ES 545 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.96 s 2H 8.63 d 1H J 2.7 Hz 7.58 m 1H 7.57 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.52 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.41 d 1H J 8.7 Hz 5.94 s 2H 3.16 m 1H 2.39 s 6H 1.79 s 3H 0.89 d 3H J 6.7 hz 0.86 d 3H J 6.7 Hz .

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 3.01 g 3.69 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 3a 13.9 g 37.9 mmol 5 bromo 2 2 5 dimethyl 1H pyrrol 1 yl pyrimidine 10.5 g 41.6 mmol and sodium carbonate 57.0 mL of a 2.0 M aqueous solution 114 mmol in EtOH toluene 250 mL of an 80 20 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 100 C. for approximately 1.5 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in to afford the title compound i 3d OH. m z ES 413 MH .

2 N N Bis trifluoromethansulfonyl amino pyridine 13.2 g 37.0 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 3d OH 15.6 g 37.9 mmol triethylamine 6.50 mL 46.6 mmol and DMAP 256 mg 2.10 mmol in DCM 270 mL at 0 C. After approximately 2 h the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 30 80 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford i 3d. m z ES 545 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.97 s 2H 8.61 d 1H J 3.0 Hz 7.57 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.53 m 1H 7.53 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.37 d 1H J 8.7 Hz 5.95 s 2H 3.15 m 1H 2.41 s 6H 1.78 s 3H 0.89 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.86 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

A mixture of p TSA 117 mg 0.618 mmol 2 5 hexanedione 4.36 mL 37.1 mmol and 3 amino 6 chloropyridazine 4.00 g 30.9 mmol in toluene 150 mL was heated at 140 C. for 5 h in a round bottom flask equipped with a condenser and Dean Stark apparatus. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and charcoal was added. The mixture was filtered through Celite and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 3e. m z ES 208 MH .

5 bromo 2 2 5 dimethyl 1H pyrrol 1 yl pyrimidine was prepared following the procedure as described above but substituting 2 amino 5 bromopyrimidine for 3 amino 6 chloropyridazine. m z ES 252 MH .

Palladium II acetate 6.00 mg 0.0260 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 28.0 mg 0.0520 mmol were added successively to a stirred solution of i 3c 82.0 mg 0.171 mmol in triethylamine DMF methanol 2.20 mL of a 1 10 10 mixture respectively at rt. The reaction mixture was saturated with carbon monoxide and then heated to 75 C. under a carbon monoxide atmosphere balloon for approximately 6 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 15 35 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 4 a. m z ES 391 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.22 d 1H J 1.6 Hz 8.46 s 1H 8.29 d 1H J 2.5 Hz 8.17 dd 1H J 1.1 8.5 Hz 7.50 m 4H 7.35 m 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.92 d 3H J 1.6 Hz 3.19 m 1H 1.77 s 3H 0.88 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.86 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 4a the following additional intermediates i 4b f can be prepared from i 3d h respectively.

For i 4c m z ES 455 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.22 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 8.16 1H dd J 2.2 8.4 Hz 8.06 2H d J 8.4 Hz 7.97 1H d J 8.9 Hz 7.55 2H d J 8.7 Hz 7.45 1H d J 8.9 Hz 7.34 1H d J 8.5 Hz 5.99 2H s 3.94 3H s 3.20 1H m 2.21 6H s 1.78 3H s 0.88 3H d J 6.7 Hz 0.85 3H d J 6.6 Hz .

Tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 43.0 mg 0.0370 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 3c 89.0 mg 0.185 mmol potassium cyanide 36.0 mg 0.556 mmol and copper I iodide 14.0 mg 0.0740 mmol in CHCN 2.00 mL at rt. The resulting mixture was heated to 85 C. for approximately 6 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 20 30 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 5a. m z ES 358 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.90 d 1H J 1.9 Hz 8.46 m 1H 8.30 m 1H 7.84 dd 1H J 2.3 8.4 Hz 7.52 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.46 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.38 m 2H 3.94 s 3H 3.16 m 1H 1.76 s 3H 0.87 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.86 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Following procedures similar to those described for the preparation of intermediate i 5a the following additional intermediates i 5b f can be prepared from i 3d h respectively.

A neat mixture of 2 pyridinemethanol 442 L 4.58 mmol copper I iodide 38.0 mg 0.200 mmol 1 10 phenanthroline 72.0 mg 0.200 mmol cesium carbonate 1.30 g 3.99 mmol and i 2f 310 mg 0.845 mmol was heated to 110 C. for approximately 20 h. After cooling to rt the reaction was poured into brine and the resulting suspension was filtered. The filter cake was dissolved in ether and washed twice with brine dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 40 70 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 6a. m z ES 349 MH .

Compound i 6b was prepared following a similar procedure to that described for the preparation of i 3c from i 3b. m z ES 481 MH .

Compounds i 6c and i 6d can be prepared following similar procedures to those described in Step A of Scheme i 4 and Step A of Scheme i 5 respectively.

Following procedures similar to those described in Scheme i 6 the following additional compounds represented in Table i 6 can be prepared 

THF 24.0 mL was added rapidly dropwise to tert butyllithium 150 mL of a 1.7 M solution in pentane at 78 C. After 15 min n butyl vinyl ether 14.0 mL 109.4 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was warmed to 30 C. at which point modest gas evolution was observed. As gas evolution ceased a second portion of n butyl vinyl ether 14.0 mL 109.4 mmol was added maintaining the reaction temperature at 30 C. After gas evolution had ceased the reaction mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of zinc chloride 29.8 g 219 mmol in THF 250 mL was added rapidly dropwise. After 15 min the reaction was warmed to 10 C. and transferred via cannula to a stirred solution of 3 6 dichloropyridazine 32.6 g 219 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 16.0 g 21.9 mmol in THF 200 mL at 0 C. After 1 h at 0 C. the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 15 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 7a. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.80 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.52 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 5.76 d 1H J 2.5 Hz 4.55 d 1H J 2.5 Hz 3.97 t 2H J 6.4 Hz 1.83 m 2H 1.57 m 2H 1.02 t 3H J 7.5 Hz .

In the Tables in the following Examples compounds having mass spectral data were synthetically prepared.

Hydroxylamine 378 L of a 50 solution in HO 5.75 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 5a 685 mg 1.92 mmol in EtOH 17.0 mL at rt and the resulting reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. for approximately 2 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 7 methanol DCM as eluent to afford the title compound 1a. m z ES 391 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.78 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 8.36 d 1H J 1.8 Hz 8.19 d 1H J 2.7 Hz 7.91 dd 1H J 2.4 8.3 Hz 7.59 m 3H 7.49 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.42 d 1H J 8.5 Hz 3.93 s 3H 3.16 m 1H 1.74 s 3H 0.88 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.85 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Compound 1a 350 mg 0.896 mmol was added to a stirred solution of acetoxyacetic acid 126 mg 1.07 mmol 1 3 dimethylamino propyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 205 mg 1.07 mmol and 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 157 mg 1.16 mmol in DCM 8.00 mL at rt. After approximately 1 h the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 1b which was used without further purification in the subsequent reaction. m z ES 491 MH HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.90 s 1H 8.51 s 1H 8.29 s 1H 7.92 d 1H J 8.5 Hz 7.83 s 1H 7.54 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.50 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.35 d 1H J 8.3 Hz 5.21 br 2H 4.90 s 2H 4.03 s 3H 3.17 m 1H 2.22 s 3H 1.76 s 3H 0.88 d 3H J 6.4 Hz 0.84 d 3H J 6.6 Hz .

A solution of 1b 0.896 mmol in xylene 6.00 mL was heated to 110 C. for approximately 1 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 1c which was used without further purification in the subsequent reaction. m z ES 473 MH .

A mixture of potassium carbonate 743 mg 5.38 mmol in water 1.00 mL was added to a stirred solution of 1c 0.896 mmol in methanol 3.00 mL at rt. After approximately 1 h the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 6 methanol DCM as eluent to furnish the title compound 1d. m z ES 431 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 9.19 d 1H J 2.1 Hz 8.65 d 1H J 1.4 Hz 8.46 d 1H J 2.5 Hz 8.32 dd 1H J 2.2 8.5 Hz 8.24 m 1H 7.72 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.62 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.59 d 1H J 8.7 Hz 4.88 s 2H 4.07 s 3H 3.24 m 1H 1.80 s 3H 0.91 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.87 d 3H J 6.8 Hz .

Methanesulfonyl chloride 28.0 L 0.362 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 1d 104 mg 0.241 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 105 L 0.602 mmol in DCM 2.00 mL at 0 C. After approximately 20 min the reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 1e which was used without further purification.

Morpholine 70.0 L 0.803 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 3e 0.0803 mmol in DMF 800 mL at rt. After approximately 1 h the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 1f. m z ES 500 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 9.20 d 1H J 2.1 Hz 8.62 s 1H 8.40 m 1H 8.33 dd 1H J 2.3 8.5 Hz 8.17 m 1H 7.71 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.61 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.60 d 1H J 8.3 Hz 4.31 s 2H 4.06 s 3H 3.82 m 4H 3.24 m 1H 2.98 m 4H 1.80 s 3H 0.91 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.87 d 3H J 6.8 Hz .

Following procedures similar to those described in Example 1 the following additional compounds represented in Table 1 can be prepared 

For 2 3 6 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl propan 2 ol 1Ac m z ES 457 MH .

For 2 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropyl 5 5 piperidin 1 ylmethyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl pyridine 1Ae m z ES 498 MH .

For 5 5 4 fluoropiperidin 1 yl methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 2 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridine m z ES 516 MH .

For 2 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropyl 5 5 pyrrolidin 1 ylmethyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl pyridine 1Ag m z ES 484 MH .

For 5 5 3S 3 fluoropyrrolidin 1 yl methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 2 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridine 1Ah m z ES 502 MH .

For 5 5 3R 3 fluoropyrrolidin 1 yl methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 2 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridine 1Ai m z ES 502 MH .

For tert butyl 1 3 6 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 1 methylethylcarbamate 1Am m z ES 558 MH .

For tert butyl 1 3 6 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl cyclopropylcarbamate 1An m z ES 556 MH .

HCl 380 L of a 4.0 M solution in 1 4 dioxane 1.52 mmol in water 20.0 L was added to a stirred solution of 1Am 20.8 mg 0.0370 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 300 L at 10 C. and the resulting mixture was allowed to warm to rt. After approximately 1 h the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 2a. m z ES 458 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 9.22 s 1H 8.75 br 1H 8.55 br 1H 8.47 d 1H J 8.2 Hz 8.42 s 1H 7.78 d 2H J 8.1 Hz 7.73 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 7.64 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 4.11 s 3H 3.22 m 1H 1.88 s 6H 1.82 s 3H 0.92 d 3H J 6.4 Hz 0.87 d 3H J 6.4 Hz .

Following procedures similar to those described in Example 2 the following additional compounds 2b 2d can be prepared 

For 1 3 6 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 Aphenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl cyclopropanamine 2b m z ES 456 MH .

Tebbe reagent 0.510 mL of a 0.5 M solution in toluene 0.256 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 4a 100 mg 0.256 mmol in THF 2.00 mL at rt. After approximately 16 h the reaction was quenched by addition of basic alumina and the resulting suspension was filtered through a short column of basic alumina eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue 3a was used without purification in the subsequent reaction.

Ethyl 2 chloro 2 hydroxyimino acetate 116 mg 0.768 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 3a 0.256 mmol and triethylamine 357 L 2.56 mmol in THF 10.0 mL at rt. After approximately 1 h the reaction mixture was acidified to pH 1 by the addition of TFA and the resulting mixture was heated to 50 C. for approximately 4.5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt neutralized with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 100 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 3b. m z ES 472 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.05 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 8.46 d 1H J 2.4 Hz 8.29 d 1H J 2.5 Hz 8.00 dd 1H J 2.3 8.5 Hz 7.51 m 4H 7.41 d 1H J 8.2 Hz 7.36 m 1H 6.98 s 1H 4.50 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 3.92 s 3H 3.71 m 1H 1.78 s 1H 1.47 t 3H J 7.1 Hz 0.91 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.88 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Methyl magnesium bromide 300 L of a 1.4M solution in toluene THF 75 25 0.420 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 3b 40.0 mg 0.0850 mmol in THF 2.00 mL at 0 C. After approximately 3 h the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 3c. m z ES 458 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.02 m 1H 8.46 m 1H 8.29 m 1H 7.96 m 1H 7.51 m 4H 7.38 m 2H 6.62 s 1H 3.92 s 3H 3.18 m 1H 1.78 s 3H 1.69 s 6H 0.91 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.88 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Following procedures similar to those described in Examples 1 and 3 the following additional compounds represented in Table 3 can be prepared 

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 220 mg 0.303 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of i 3c 2.91 g 6.06 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 1.69 g 6.66 mmol and potassium acetate 1.71 g 18.2 mmol in DMSO 25.0 mL at rt. The resulting suspension was heated to 80 C. for approximately 1.5 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 4a. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.96 d J 0.9 Hz 8.45 d 1H J 1.3 Hz 8.28 d 1H J 2.5 Hz 7.95 dd 1H J 1.9 8.1 Hz 7.48 m 4H 7.37 m 1H 7.26 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 3.93 s 3H 3.18 m 1H 1.75 s 3H 1.27 s 12H 0.88 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.84 d 3H J 6.8 Hz .

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 700 mg 0.960 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4a 2.20 g 4.80 mmol 3 6 dichloropyridazine 1.40 g 5.80 mmol and sodium carbonate 4.80 mL of a 2.0 M aqueous solution 9.60 mmol in EtOH toluene 25.0 mL of an 80 20 mixture respectively at rt. The resulting solution was heated to 95 C. for approximately 2 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to furnish the title compound 4b. m z ES 445 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.19 d 1H J 2.1 Hz 8.46 d 1H J 1.6 Hz 8.36 dd 1H J 2.5 8.5 Hz 8.29 d 1H J 2.8 Hz 7.86 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.62 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.52 m 4H 7.46 d 1H J 8.2 Hz 7.37 m 1H 3.93 s 3H 3.21 m 1H 1.80 s 3H 0.93 d 3H J 6.9 Hz 0.89 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

Palladium II acetate 81.0 mg 0.360 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 401 mg 0.720 mmol were added to a stirred solution of 4b 1.60 g 3.62 mmol in triethylamine DMF methanol 25.0 mL of a 1 10 10 mixture respectively at rt. The reaction mixture was saturated with carbon monoxide and then heated to 70 C. under a carbon monoxide atmosphere balloon for approximately 3.5 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with DCM. The filtrate was partially concentrated in vacuo and diluted with EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 40 80 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 4c. m z ES 469 MH . HNMR. 500 MHz CDCl 9.31 d 1H J 1.9 Hz 8.45 m 2H 8.29 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 8.03 d 1H J 8.7 Hz 7.50 m 6H 4.12 s 3H 3.94 s 3H 3.22 m 1H 1.81 s 3H 0.93 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.89 d 3H J 6.6 Hz .

Methyl magnesium bromide 1.10 mL of a 1.4 M toluene THF 75 25 solution was added to a stirred solution of 4c 360 mg 0.768 mmol in THF 5.00 mL at 0 C. After approximately 45 min the reaction was quenched by the addition of 1 N HCl and the resulting mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 20 100 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 4d. m z ES 469 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.21 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 8.46 br 1H 8.40 dd 1H J 2.3 8.5 Hz 8.28 br 1H 7.90 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.78 d 1H J 8.7 Hz 7.52 m 4H 7.45 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 7.40 m 1H 3.93 s 3H 3.20 m 1H 1.80 s 3H 1.70 s 6H 0.92 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.88 d 3H J 6.8 Hz .

Compound 4e was prepared from i 3d following procedures as described above for the preparation of 4d. m z ES 533 MH .

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 3.17 g 3.89 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of i 3d 21.2 g 38.9 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 10.9 g 42.8 mmol and potassium acetate 11.5 g 117 mmol in DMSO 200 mL at rt. The resulting suspension was heated to 80 C. for approximately 1.5 h. After cooling to it the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 4x. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.98 m 1H 8.95 s 2H 7.97 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.54 m 4H 7.27 d 1H J 8.2 Hz 5.94 s 2H 3.20 m 1H 2.39 s 6H 1.76 s 3H 1.36 s 12H 0.89 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.85 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladim II 3.18 g 3.89 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4x 20.3 g 38.9 mmol i 7a 9.93 g 46.7 mmol and sodium carbonate 38.9 mL of a 2.0 M aqueous solution 77.8 mmol in EtOH toluene 175 mL of an 80 20 mixture respectively at it. The resulting solution was heated to 95 C. for approximately 3 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to furnish the title compound m z ES 573 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.26 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 8.96 s 2H 8.46 dd 1H J 2.2 8.3 Hz 7.90 m 2H 7.58 m 4H 7.46 d 1H J 8.5 Hz 5.93 s 2H 5.85 d 1H J 2.1 Hz 4.57 d 1H J 1.9 Hz 3.99 t 2H J 6.3 Hz 3.24 m 1H 2.39 s 6H 1.83 m 2H 1.82 s 3H 1.56 m 2H 1.03 t 3H J 7.5 Hz 0.96 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.89 d 3H J 6.7 Hz .

Hydrochloric acid 100 mL of a 1.0 M solution in EtOH was added to a stirred solution of 4y 7.03 g 12.3 mmol in EtOH 50.0 mL at 0 C. After approximately 15 min a second portion of hydrochloric acid 100 mL of a 2.0 M aqueous solution was added and after another 15 min a third portion of hydrochloric acid 100 mL of a 1.0 M solution in EtOH . After an additional 15 min a final portion of hydrochloric acid 50 mL of a 6.0 M aqueous solution was added and the resulting reaction was aged for 30 min. The reaction was carefully neutralized by the addition of solid sodium bicarbonate. The resulting mixture was saturated with solid sodium chloride and extracted twice with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 4z m z ES 517 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.32 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 8.95 s 2H 8.47 dd 1H J 2.3 8.5 Hz 8.22 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 8.04 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.58 m 4H 7.50 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 5.91 s 2H 3.24 m 1H 2.94 s 3H 2.37 s 6H 1.82 s 3H 0.94 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.89 d 3H J 6.6 Hz .

Methyl magnesium bromide 32.4 mL of a 1.4 M solution in THF toluene 25 75 was added to a stirred solution of lithium chloride 1.93 g 45.4 mmol and 4z 11.7 g 22.7 mmol in THF 70 mL at 0 C. After approximately 1 h at 0 C. the reaction was quenched by the dropwise addition of 1.0 M hydrochloric acid and the resulting mixture stirred for 15 min. The resulting mixture was poured slowly into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 35 75 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to furnish the title compound 4e. m z ES 533 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.23 d 1H J 2.1 Hz 8.95 s 2H 8.39 dd 1H J 2.3 8.5 Hz 7.89 d 1H J 9.0 Hz 7.79 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.57 m 4H 7.46 d 1H J 8.5 Hz 5.92 s 2H 4.20 s 1H 3.22 m 1H 2.38 s 6H 1.81 s 3H 1.70 s 6H 0.93 d 3H J 6.4 Hz 0.88 d 3H J 6.6 Hz .

Hydroxylamine hydrochloride 94.0 mg 1.350 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4e 72.0 mg 0.135 mmol and triethylamine 10.0 L 0.0730 mmol in EtOH water 900 L of a 2 1 mixture respectively at rt and the resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for approximately 14 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions to afford the title compound 4f. m z ES 455 MH .

Compound 4g was prepared from i 3e following procedures as described above for the preparation of compounds 4d and 4f. m z ES 455 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described in Example 4 and the preceding schemes the following additional compounds represented in Table 4 can be prepared 

For 3 6 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridin 3 yl 6 methylpyridazine 4Ac m z ES 425 MH .

For 3 6 1 4 5 methoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridin 3 yl 6 trifluoromethyl pyridazine 4Ad m z ES 479 MH .

Sodium methansulfinate 69.0 mg 0.680 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 4b 150 mg 0.340 mmol in DMF 2.00 mL at rt. The resulting mixture was heated to 120 C. for approximately 20 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 20 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 5a. m z ES 489 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 9.36 m 1H 8.74 m 1H 8.68 m 1H 8.55 m 2H 8.41 m 1H 8.38 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.83 m 1H 7.79 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.66 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 4.10 s 3H 3.30 s 3H 3.25 m 1H 1.86 s 3H 0.96 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.90 d 3H J 6.6 Hz .

Following procedures similar to those described in Example 5 the following additional compounds can be prepared 

Pyridinium chloride 160 mg 1.30 mmol was added to neat 4Ad 60.0 mg 0.130 mmol at rt and the resulting mixture was heated in a sealed tube at 180 C. for approximately 2 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 30 75 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 6a. m z ES 465 MH .

Chloromethyl methyl sulfide 12.0 L 0.140 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of 6a 42.0 mg 0.0910 mmol and cesium carbonate 46.0 mg 0.140 mmol in DMF 2.00 mL at rt and the resulting mixture was heated at 40 C. for approximately 2 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and second portions of cesium carbonate 46.0 mg 0.140 mmol and chloromethyl methyl sulfide 12.0 L 0.140 mmol were added. The resulting mixture was heated at 40 C. for about another 3 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was poured into 10 aqueous sodium hydrosulfate and extracted three times with diethyl ether. The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 20 50 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 6b. m z ES 525 MH HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.28 d 1H J 2.1 Hz 8.51 br 1H 8.45 dd 1H J 2.4 8.3 Hz 8.32 br 1H 8.07 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.92 d 1H J 9.0 Hz 7.55 m 6H 5.25 s 2H 3.21 m 1H 2.28 s 3H 1.81 s 3H 0.93 d 3H J 6.4 Hz 0.89 d 3H J 6.6 Hz .

A solution of 6b 18.0 mg 0.0340 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 2.00 mL was added to a stirred solution of xenon difluoride 58.0 mg 0.340 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 1.00 mL at 0 C. After approximately 2 h the reaction mixture was quenched with triethylamine 0.250 mL and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 30 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 6c. m z ES 497 MH 

Following procedures similar to those described in Example 6 the following additional compounds represented in Table 6 can be prepared 

For 3 6 1 4 5 difluoromethoxy pyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropyl pyridin 3 yl 6 trifluoromethyl pyridazine 6Ba m z ES 515 MH .

For 3 6 1 4 5 ethoxypyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridin 3 yl 6 trifluoromethyl pyridazine 6Ca m z ES 493 MH .

For 3 6 1 4 5 benzyloxy pyridin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropyl pyridin 3 yl 6 trifluoromethyl pyridazine 6Da m z ES 555 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described in the preceding examples the following additional compounds represented in Table 7 can be prepared 

For 2 6 1 4 2 aminopyrimidin 5 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropylpyridin 3 yl propan 2 ol 7Ad m z ES 377 MH .

For 2 6 1 4 6 aminopyridazin 3 yl phenyl 1 2 dimethylpropyl pyridin 3 yl propan 2 ol 7Bd m z ES 377 MH 

Hydrazine monohydrate 1.50 mL 31.0 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 6Ca 41.0 mg 0.104 mmol in ethanol 5 mL and the resulting solution was heated at reflux for approximately 1.5 h. After cooling to rt the volatiles were removed in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic phase was separated washed with water and brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was dissolved in dioxane 400 L to which aqueous sodium bicarbonate 17.0 mg 0.208 mmol in 100 L of water was added dropwise via syringe. A solution of cyanogen bromide 17.0 mg 0.156 mmol in dioxane 100 L was then added slowly. After approximately 1 h the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted twice with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TFA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions afforded the title compound 8a. m z ES 416 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 9.08 d 1H J 1.1 Hz 8.76 br s 1H 8.44 m 1H 8.12 dd 1H J 2.3 8.2 Hz 8.02 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.87 m 1H 7.62 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.52 d 1H J 8.2 Hz 7.02 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.41 s 2H 3.97 s 1H 1.03 s 9H .

Following procedures similar to those described previously the following additional compounds represented in Table 8 can be prepared 

Azidotrimethyltin 330 mg 1.60 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 6Cb 145 mg 0.406 mmol in toluene 5.00 mL and the resulting solution was heated to reflux for approximately 18 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was partially concentrated and diluted with ethanol. Hydrochloric acid 1 N in ethanol was added and after 1.5 h of vigorous agitation the volatiles were removed in vacuo and the crude residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 100 DCM methanol axnmonium hydroxide 85 15 1 DCM as eluent to afford the title compound 9a. m z ES 401 MH .

Iodomethane 30.0 L 0.482 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of cesium carbonate 195 mg 0.598 mmol and 9a 50.0 mg 0.119 mmol in DMF 2.00 mL at rt. After approximately 2 h the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed three times with water and once with brine dried sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 60 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 9b. m z ES 415 MH .

Following procedures similar to those described previously the following additional compounds represented in Table 9 can be prepared 

Following procedures similar to those described in previous examples the following additional compounds represented in Table 10 can be prepared 

For 2 3 6 1 2 dimethyl 1 4 pyridin 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl propan 2 ol 10Aa m z ES 459 MH .

For 1 3 6 1 2 dimethyl 1 4 pyridin 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl cyclopropanamine 10Ad m z ES 456 MH .

For 4 3 6 1 2 dimethyl 1 4 pyridin 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl methylmorpholine 10Ae m z ES 500 MH .

For 3 chloro 6 6 1 2 dimethyl 1 4 pyridin 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propylpyridin 3 yppyridazine 10Ag m z ES 445 MH .

For methyl 6 6 1 2 dimethyl 1 4 pyridin 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propylpyridin 3 yl pyridazine 3 carboxylate 10Ah m z ES 469 MH .

For 2 6 6 1 2 dimethyl 1 4 pyridin 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propylpyridin 3 yl pyridazin 3 yl propan 2 ol 10Aj m z ES 469 MH .

For 2 3 6 1 2 dimethyl 1 4 1 3 thiazol 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl propan 2 ol 10Ca m z ES 465 MH .

For 1 3 6 1 2 dimethyl 1 4 1 3 thiazol 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propylpyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl cyclopropanamine 10Cd m z ES 462 MH .

A 100 000 g pellet from human leukocyte 10 000 g supernatants 1 is the source of FLAP. The 100 000 g pellet membranes were resuspended in Tris Tween assay buffer 100 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 140 mM NaCl 2 mM EDTA 0.5 mM dithiothreitol 5 glycerol 0.05 Tween 20 to yield a final protein concentration of 50 g to 150 g ml. Aliquots 100 l of membrane suspension were added to 12 mm 75 mm polypropylene tubes containing 100 l Tris Tween assay buffer 30 000 cpm of Compound A in 5 l MeOH assay buffer 1 1 and 2 l dimethyl sulfoxide or competitor i.e. the compound to be tested in dimethyl sulfoxide. Compound B 10 M final concentration was used to determine non specific binding. After a 20 minute incubation at room temperature tube contents were diluted to 4 ml with cold 0.1 M Tris HCl pH 7.4 0.05 Tween 20 wash buffer and the membranes were collected by filtration of GFB filters presoaked in the wash buffer. Tubes and filters were rinsed with 2 4 ml aliquots of cold wash buffer. Filters were transferred to 12 mm 3.5 mm polystyrene tubes for determination of radioactivity by gamma scintillation counting.

Specific binding is defined as total binding minus non specific binding. Total binding was Compound A bound to membranes in the absence of competitor non specific binding was Compound A bound in the presence of 10 uM Compound B. Preparation of Compound A is described in reference 1 below. The ICvalues were obtained by computer analysis see reference 2 below of the experimental data. Representative tested compounds of the invention were determined to have an IC

While the invention has been described with reference to certain particular embodiments thereof numerous alternative embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the teachings described herein. Recitation of a specific compound in the claims i.e. a species without a chiral designation is intended to encompass the racemate enantiomeric mixtures each individual enantiomer a diastereoisomeric mixture and each individual diastereoisomer of the compound where such forms are possible due to the presence of one or more asymmetric centers. All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

