---

title: Role policy management
abstract: In various embodiments, techniques for role management systems are provided. According to an embodiment, a method is provided to allow a role management system to be configured, modified, and restricted. Specific roles assignments may be decorated to be meaningful to an application but which are not generally applicable to an original role specification. A Policy Enforcement Point (PEP) role request response may be modified by an augmentation service, which evaluates a resource association to identify an appropriate resource profile. Resource decorations are identified by the selected profile, and are applied to the role request response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032558&OS=08032558&RS=08032558
owner: Novell, Inc.
number: 08032558
owner_city: Provo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070110
---
The invention relates generally to security and more particularly to administering resource access using role policy management techniques.

Increasingly enterprises are faced with numerous internal users having different access requirements that span a large number of applications networks and systems. Maintaining the security of such modern dynamic enterprises is a critical and challenging task. In some industries such as banking the federal government has promulgated rules and regulations that require a certain degree of security. Thus enterprises are not only concerned with their reputation but face potential civil liability for security breaches. The challenge lies in efficiently and securely provisioning system access to reflect constantly changing user responsibilities and computing environments.

Historic methods of manually granting individual user access on a resource by resource basis long ago proved administratively infeasible for organizations of even moderate size. Role Based Access Control RBAC systems advanced the art by attempting to secure and streamline user administration via constructing and maintaining a formal model of user privileges grouped into roles.

However such models have scaled poorly because many users are unique thus resulting in role proliferation. For example user diversity is often represented using new applications departments or systems which are added to the enterprise security model. Where fine grain role approaches are required the number of roles may equal the number of users or even exceed the number of user if users have many roles therefore the advantage of grouping is often lost. Application of policy rules as a complement to roles has allowed for greater flexibility and fewer generalized static role definitions. Nonetheless the combination of increasingly complex Information Technology IT infrastructures more diversified users requiring fine granularity access privileges and growing numbers of users including employees subcontractors partners vendors etc. have shown that these conventional tools and processes to manage security are breaking down.

Consequently what was considered a valuable security model for an enterprise has now become an administration and maintenance challenge.

Also problematic is the task of converting an enterprise to a role management system in the first place. Traditional role management systems are not conducive to the integration of existing systems to use roles nor do they provide the mechanisms necessary to allow multiple disparate systems that are related only by the role information to add role functionality without affecting other applications using the role management system.

Accordingly what is needed are mechanisms to better provision fine grained role extensions without impacting existing role management systems.

In various embodiments techniques for role management systems are provided. More specifically and in an embodiment a method is provided for extending a generalized role definition. A role request and role assignment are received. The role request identifies a principal and a Policy Enforcement Point PEP service that acts on behalf of the principal. The role assignment represents permissible roles of the principal. Next a resource association is evaluated in response to the role request and in response to the role assignment in order to identify a resource profile. One or more resource decorations are applied in response to the identified resource profile. The modified role assignment is sent to the PEP service for enforcement.

The term resource as used herein refers to an electronic entity an application or set of applications a data store a proxy a directory a service or physical devices such as computers or peripherals etc. Resources may represent physical or logical entities.

A principal is a type of resource designation identifying a resource that requests access to or communicates with other resources. For example a principal may be a user an automated application or an automated service that attempts to access another resource such as a website etc.

In various embodiments of the invention the term identity is used. An identity refers to an electronic identifier attribute or representation for a resource e.g. physical and logical . An identity may be assigned to a resource after authentication. An identity is authenticated via various techniques e.g. challenge and response interaction cookies assertions etc. that use various identifying information e.g. identifiers with passwords biometric data digital certificates digital signatures etc. . A true identity is one that is unique to a resource across any context that the resource may engage in over a network e.g. Internet Intranet etc. . However each resource may have and manage a variety of identities where each of these identities may only be unique within a given context given service interaction given processing environment given virtual processing environment etc. .

 Role Based Access Control RBAC is a technique that specifies role relations interactions and restrictions as a part of a role object model. Stated another way RBAC is a security model to administer system access rights based on role assignments and rules role policy .

As used herein a Role Config is a data store or data structure having a collection of role definitions and which may also include specification information separation of duties rights and privileges inheritance specification hierarchical location etc. Sometimes role definitions include privileges associated with their hierarchical subordinates.

A Policy Enforcement Point PEP service is a module that enforces policy including access restrictions and permissions for resources within its purview. Policy decisions may be provided from a Policy Decision Point PDP . In a general case a PEP service makes a request of a PDP of behalf of a requestor the PDP access a Role Calculator Engine RCE to have the roles for the role s calculated and then the PDP makes a final policy decision and distributes the information the to the PEP for subsequent enforcement. It may also be that the PEP modules submit access requests on behalf of principals or resources to a RCE in these cases the RCE may be viewed as a type of PDP. In fact the RCE may include both its own PDP and PEP.

A PEP Config is a data store or data structure that provides a PDP and or a RCE with PEP specific processing context information. This may include proxy connection state IP subnet domain information or information on how to retrieve PDP specific information etc.

It is noted that throughout the discussion included herein the RCE may be viewed as a special type of PDP that performs the novel processing discussed herein and below.

A PDP service supplies role policy and specifications associated with a resource to a RCE specialized type of PDP or PEP service. Again it is noted that the RCE is itself a PDP. A PDP may also deliver this same information to an augmentation service. Additionally a PDP may evaluate a modified role assignment and present a final disposition to the PEP for enforcement.

 Role Policy defines the relationship between a resource and one or more roles. Role Policy may augment the use of a generic role by specifying activation deactivation creation modification decoration association and or usage restraints. For example role policy may dictate that a particular role may only be assigned to a principal if specific conditions are met e.g. time of day temporal restraint subnet network constraints memory or processor capacity hardware configuration etc. .

A Resource Decoration defines a processing context to an augmentation service. The processing context may include additional access restrictions or permissions formatting and syntax requirements as an example this may be used in some embodiments to accommodate legacy applications .

A Resource Association defines and identifies relationships between resources including role requests and role assignments and maps particular relationships to resource profiles. The profiles map to context specific access permissions or restrictions.

A Resource Config includes one or more resource profiles or specifications. Each resource profile identifies one or more resource decorations that may be applied to a given role assignment or resource association. In other words the resource config details the restrictions that may be imposed on a particular resource or processing context for that resource.

An Augmentation service is used as an augmentation calculator that accepts as inputs one or more roles policies associated with those roles role requests or role assignments supplied by a PDP service or RCE and uses the identified resource associations in connection with the resource config to select a resource profile and acquire the appropriate resource decorations. This permits the augmentation service to provide more fine grained roles for a general role assignment permits roles to be reused with role enabled systems and allows new access points to be defined that interact with existing PEP PDP s. The output of the augmentation service is in the same or similar format as the inputs supplied by the PDP service or RCE such that multiple instances of the augmentation service can be chained together based on configuration setups to further partition the access permissions and restrictions. The augmentation calculation module may be a generalized reusable module or logic specific to a given application.

Finally the Role Calculator evaluates access requests e.g. the PEP context in terms of the roles of one or more agents and the resources using role policy to make a determination concerning the access request or role action e.g. activation interrogation etc. . Thus the role calculator may associate one or more roles to a requesting resource and evaluate access requests for the resource by application of role policy to that resource s role assignments. The Role Calculator is part of the RCE.

As used in this document or disclosure the terms role decoration association and interaction may refer to specific instances patterns or templates.

Various embodiments of this invention can be implemented in existing network architectures and RBAC systems. For example in some embodiments the techniques presented herein are implemented in whole or in part in the Novell network proxy server products operating system products data center products and or directory services products distributed by Novell Inc. of Provo Utah. More specifically embodiments of the invention may be implemented in the Novell Access Manager Identity Manager products and Bandit projects among others.

Of course the embodiments of the invention can be implemented in a variety of architectural platforms operating and server systems devices systems or applications. Any particular architectural layout or implementation presented herein is provided for purposes of illustration and comprehension only and is not intended to limit aspects of the invention.

It is within this context that various embodiments of the invention are now presented with reference to the .

As will be more fully described herein and below the role extension service permits a generic role assignment to be modified with access permissions or restrictions specific to a given PEP application and or principal via an augmentation service. The decoration of a role assignment is the augmentation of a role specification to allow other constraints to be considered which were not anticipated by the standard generic role structure. The result of the decoration in many situations but not all is a modification of the access permissions of a given role assignment. Thus in some cases the result of the decoration may not change any access permissions. It is also noted that in some cases the decoration may enhance or transform the original role assignment. Thus the decoration does not have to be restrictive in each case and embodiment presented herein.

At the role extension service receives a role request and role assignment. The role request identifies a requesting PEP service and the principal that the PEP service is representing. In some embodiments it is noted that the principal may be anonymous from the outset. The PEP is originally specified when a specific resource access is requested in a certain context by the principal. The role assignment may represent one or more permissible roles of the principal or in another embodiment it may be empty or unassigned. A role request represents a principal s desire to access one or more resources. In some situations it may be necessary that a principal be assigned more than one role to receive access to a particular resource. According to an embodiment the role request and role assignment are sent from a RCE that previously made the role assignment in response to the role request. More than one role assignment may be associated with a given role request. The role extension service may receive the role request and role assignment by intercepting a transmission originally intended for a PEP service. Where an application makes a role request on behalf of a principal the role request may include information identifying the application and principal. Optionally at the role extension service identifies the requesting principal and or an application being used by the principal.

It may also be the case at that the role extension service recognizes that the role assignment is initially unassigned or is empty. Thus in some cases there is no initial role assignment at all.

At the role extension service evaluates a resource association in response to the role request and role assignment to identify a resource profile within the resource config module. To evaluate a resource association the role extension service may consider the identified relationship between one or more of the following the true identity of the principal the role request the role assignment the PEP service the application membership inheritance requirements dynamic membership exclusions based on temporal restraints etc. After selecting the resource profile at the role extension service applies the resource decorations identified in the selected resource profile to the role assignment at . This is to modify the original role assignment when and if such a modification was dictated by policy. In this manner generalized role definitions may be modified and extended through decorating a role assignment without burdening the generic role specification. One result is that fine grain security requirements for specific applications PEPs and principals may now be resolved without affecting other uses of a security management system. Another result may be a transformation or enhanced version of access permissions. Although the stand alone operation of a generic security management system is not explicitly shown in the it is shown and described in more detail below with respect to the . Continuing the discussion of in the specific roles and role hierarchies may be decorated or associations specified that are meaningful to the application but not generally applicable to a general role specification case.

By way of example resource decorations may implement the limitation that membership inheritance from the role hierarchy for a given application be restricted to only one level whereas another application must inherit from each available level. Such a situation may arise where manager A a second level manager supervises first level managers B and C. Manager B oversees only regular salaried employees and manager C oversees outside contract workers. Manager A in her role as second level manager should be able to access all the information about manager B manager C and the subordinates of manager C all regular salaried employees but not the confidential information relating to the outside contract workers that manger B supervises.

Returning to the discussion of the at and according to an embodiment the role extension service applies access restrictions and or permissions to the role assignment or applies any transformation which in some cases may be enhanced access permissions. Optionally at the role extension service generates one or more PEP specific role decorations. At and as previously noted above the role extension service leaves the generalized role definition unchanged so that other systems services interacting with or using a traditional RBAC system may continue to function normally and unabated. In an embodiment at the role extension service formats the role request response to accommodate formatting and syntax requirements of any legacy application service or system. In other words the role extension service may ensure that the augmentation that was performed goes unnoticed by subsequent consuming services or systems. In this manner the augmentation can be seamlessly integrated into legacy systems or services.

At the role extension service sends the modified role assignments to the PEP service. The PEP service may subsequently use the modified role assignments for enforcement against subsequent processing actions of the requesting principal. This augments the general role assignment beyond what was initially assigned.

In this way a coarse grain role definition may be extended to create one or more fine grain role extensions and without affecting how other applications services systems and resources use the coarse grain role.

In an embodiment the role extension service may itself be viewed as an enhanced type of PDP service. In fact in some cases the role extension service may be implemented within a PDP as an enhanced service of the PDP.

At the proxy service receives a role request from a first resource on behalf of a second resource. It may also be the case at that the proxy service recognizes the first resource as a PEP service and the second resource as a principal. The role request may be sent from a PEP service directly or arrive at the proxy service indirectly.

At the proxy service acquires a response that associates one or more roles with the second resource. The response may be acquired from a role calculator. The roles which are associated with the second resource may include each available role or may include just a subset of roles of the second resource s permissible roles depending on the access rights sought by the second resource. Environmental conditions such as hardware limitations network constraints software configurations time of day location etc. may also determine which roles are associated with the second resource. For example some roles may not be accessible to the second resource if the second resource is requesting access in a remote physical environment such as through a virtual private network connection. Alternatively at the proxy service may generate the response itself by dynamically associating one or more roles with the second resource.

The proxy service forwards the role request and the response to an augmentation service at . At the proxy service receives a modified response from the augmentation service. The modified response is customized for the second resource by application of resource decorations to the original response. This may include changing access permissions and or restrictions of the active roles associated with the second resource. Additionally the customization may include altering the format and syntax of the response. Optionally at the proxy service identifies a resource profile received from the augmentation service wherein the augmentation service identifies the resource profile in response to an identified relationship among the role request the first resource and role assignments associated with the second resource. Thus the relationship between the role request the first resource and the roles associated with the second resource determine which resource profile that was selected. The proxy service may select more than one resource profile additionally a selected resource profile may be used to select additional resource profiles.

According to an embodiment at the proxy service identifies resource decorations received from the augmentation service wherein the augmentation service selected the decorations in response to the identified resource profile.

At the proxy service sends the modified response to the first resource. The first resource enforces the access permissions and restrictions contained in the response against the second resource.

In one embodiment at the method may be implemented as a plug in to a RCE. In another embodiment at the method may be implemented as modifications within an RCE. According to yet another embodiment at the method may by implemented as a proxy service that interacts with a RCE and PEP service.

At the PEP service receives a role request from an application on behalf of a principal. The same PEP service may administer or service dispositions for more than one application or principal.

At the PEP service forwards the role request to a RCE. An RCE generates a response by assigning one or more roles associated with the principal or with the application and forwards the response to an augmentation service for customization. Alternatively the RCE may forward the response to another PEP service and the response may be intercepted by an augmentation service.

Two or more augmentation services may be chained together via their augmentation calculators. Optionally at the RCE response may be forwarded from one augmentation service to another augmentation service as necessary for customization. Some augmentation services may be logic specific for particular applications.

According to an embodiment consumer and maintenance Application Programming Interfaces API are associated with the PEP service. Further flexibility is created by allowing applications to change PEP services and PEP chaining associated with API and management functions. For example this allows an application to specify that after a particular application decoration has been associated with a role the role may not be further modified without the PDP service that represents the application ensuring that the modification is acceptable. The PEP service enforces policy representing the roles and access permissions whereas PDP services resolve or make the initial policy. The augmentation service permits general roles to be dynamically altered to achieve more granularities then a general role assignment might be capable of providing.

At the PEP service receives a modified response from the augmentation service. The augmentation service has already customized the RCE response as described in detail above for the application and the principal by applying resource decorations.

In an embodiment at the PEP service receives decorations as part of the modified response which is in response to actions of an augmentation service that evaluates a resource association against the role request and one or more role assignments to select a resource profile. The augmentation service may also select a resource profile based on the identity of the principal and require that the principal authenticate a true identity. In still another embodiment at the PEP service may have also received the decorations via the modified response in response to the augmentation service that selects the resource decorations in response to the identified resource profile. The augmentation service applies the resource decorations to the response customizing the response for the requesting application and principal and embodying this customization in the modified response. At the PEP service may receive the modified response and corresponding decorations in such a manner from the augmentation service that the RCE processing is left unchanged so that other uses of the RBAC system are not impacted by the augmentation that was achieved via the augmentation service.

At the PEP service enforces the access rights and or restrictions contained in the modified response against the application and principal. In this manner fine grained access restrictions may be realized. Such granular security enforcement may even be used to ensure regulatory restrictions are being satisfied with respect to security.

The role extension system includes a Role Policy Disposition service and an augmentation service each of which are discussed in more detail below. In some cases the role extension system may also include one or more resources a RCE and additional augmentation services .

The Role Policy Disposition service was at least partially described in detail above especially with reference to the method of the . The Role Policy Disposition service is an intermediary adapted to receive role requests from one or more resources often applications or principals and forward those requests to a RCE or cause those requests to be forwarded to the RCE . Further the Role Policy Disposition service is adapted to receive customized role request responses from an augmentation service and enforce access permissions and restrictions included in the responses against processing actions of the requesting resource. In some cases the Role Policy Disposition service may enforce role transformations produced by the augmentation service . So it may not just be restrictive role augmentations any role transformation perhaps even including a role expansion may occur via the augmentation service . A given Role Policy Disposition service may handle role requests for multiple resources and enforce role policy decisions including transformations access restrictions and permissions against multiple resources. Resources may be applications services devices principals or applications acting on behalf of principals. An Application Programming Interface API may be associated with the Role Policy Disposition service . A resource may configure the Role Policy Disposition service through the API or chain multiple Role Policy Disposition service together with one another.

The augmentation service was described in detail above especially with reference to role the role extension service represented by the method of the . The augmentation service has access to resource decorations resource associations and resource profiles. Additionally the augmentation service may have communication channels between the RCE the Role Policy Disposition service and other augmentation services . The augmentation service is adapted to receive role requests and role responses from the RCE . The role requests and role responses may be intercepted by the augmentation service unbeknownst to the RCE . Role responses may include role assignments made by the RCE .

The augmentation service is adapted to customize an RCE response for the Role Policy Disposition service for resources or for other applications or principals. The augmentation calculator modifies the role response according to the resource decorations resource associations and resource profiles that form part of the augmentation service. The augmentation service customizes the response for the requesting resource adjusting access permissions and restrictions as necessary and may also apply a processing context to the response to fulfill formatting or syntax requirements of the requesting resource e.g. to accommodate a legacy application etc. .

The augmentation service is further adapted to indirectly via the RCE or directly send the customized response to the Role Policy Disposition service. Thus it is possible to configure the augmentation service including the resource decorations resource associations and resource profiles to allow multiple disparate systems services that are related by the role specifications to add role functionality without affecting other systems services using the role management system service.

One or more augmentation services may be connected to the augmentation service . Augmentation services operate in a manner similar to that described above with respect to augmentation service . The augmentation services and may send responses to and receive responses from one another or from other augmentation services not shown in that are chained together. In this manner augmentation services may dynamically consult one another and pre or post modify a role request response.

The character A represents the transmission of a role request from PEP X on behalf of application to the RCE where one or more roles are assigned. The RCE transmits the role request and role assignments via channel B to an augmentation module for modification. The modified response is also sent back over B to the RCE. Optionally the augmentation calculator may pass the response via C to another augmentation module before the response is returned to PEP X via B to the RCE and then via A to PEP X. The response may be further transmitted via D to additional augmentation modules D may also represent the transmission of a role question to invoke PEP X on behalf of application if a PEP service resides or is implemented within the RCE.

The techniques presented herein provide mechanisms necessary to allow multiple disparate systems that are related only by the role specifications to add role functionality without affecting other applications services or systems using a role management system service. The methods and systems described above provide PEP and application specific role extensions to coarse grain role definitions that leave the general role definition intact. Among other benefits enterprises may now more easily convert to a role management system service and better administer role management systems services as user diversity is exposed by new applications departments or users being added to the enterprise. Thus provisioning fine grained access permissions which reflect constantly changing user responsibilities within a more manageable processing environment is made easier.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of embodiments should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing description of the embodiments various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Description of the Embodiments with each claim standing on its own as a separate exemplary embodiment.

