---

title: Substituted pyridazines as EGFR and/or KRAS inhibitors
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09562019&OS=09562019&RS=09562019
owner: Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research
number: 09562019
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
This application is a U.S. national phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of international PCT application no. PCT US2007 088543 filed Dec. 21 2007 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional application U.S. Ser. No. 60 871 181 filed Dec. 21 2006 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Lung cancer has been the most common cancer in the world since 1985 with approximately 163 510 deaths expected to occur in 2005 in the United States. Even with current treatments involving surgery chemotherapy and or radiotherapy overall 5 year survival in the United States is still only approximately 15 percent in developing countries 5 year survival rates are about 9 percent Parkin et al. . 2005 55 74 108 . The overwhelming majority of lung cancers in both sexes can be attributed to smoking. However approximately 10 of lung cancers arise in individuals who smoked less than 100 cigarettes in a lifetime never smokers .

Several proto oncogenes encoding components of the ERBB HER signaling pathway are known to be mutated in lung cancers almost exclusively in adenocarcinomas. The most common mutations affect the KRAS and EGFR genes. Approximately 15 to 30 of adenocarcinomas have KRAS mutations Rodenhuis and Slebos . 1990 142 S27 30 Suzuki et al. 1990 5 1037 1043 while EGFR mutations are found in about 10 of adenocarcinomas in the United States and in much higher percentages of patients in East Asia Pao et al. 2005 2 e17 . EGFR and KRAS mutations are mutually exclusive suggesting that they have functionally equivalent or overlapping roles in lung tumorigenesis.

The majority of mutations in KRAS in human lung adenocarcinomas are found in exon 2 leading to missense amino acid substitutions in codons 12 or 13 Rodenhuis et al. . 1988 48 5738 5741 . Nearly 90 of EGFR mutations identified in human lung cancer occur in two hotspots . Half of these mutations are various multi nucleotide in frame deletions that eliminate a highly conserved four amino acid sequence LREA encoded in exon 19. The other hotspot mutations are point mutations in exon 21 that result in a specific amino acid substitution i.e. lysine to arginine at position 858 L858R . The remaining 10 15 are nucleotide substitutions deletions or insertions duplications found in exons 18 21 outside of the common sites of mutation Lynch et al. . 2004 350 2129 2139 Paez et al. 2004 304 1497 1500 Pao et al. 2004 101 13306 13311 .

Most of the somatic mutations in the EGFR described above are associated with sensitivity of human lung tumors to the tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib IRESSA Astra Zeneca and erlotinib TARCEVA OSI Pharmaceuticals Genentech . Although these two small molecules were developed as inhibitors of the wild type EGFR tyrosine kinase EGFR with the common mutations in the kinase domain confer an augmented sensitivity to these drugs. To date gefitinib and erlotinib are the only two targeted agents clinically available for treatment of human non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma squamous cell carcinoma and large cell carcinoma .

In most patients who initially respond to crlotinib and gcfitinib the cancer resumes detectable growth within 6 months to two years. This loss of sensitivity to gefitinib and erlotinib arises co incidentally with a secondary mutation in exon 20 of the EGFR which leads to substitution of methionine for threonine at position 790 T790M in the kinase domain in addition to the primary drug sensitive mutation. Activating EGFR mutations e.g. L858R seem to occur preferentially in cis with the T790M mutation. This T790M mutation has also recently been identified in a family with a history of adenocarcinoma Bell et al. . 2005 37 1315 1316 . Biochemical analyses of transfected cells and growth inhibition studies with lung cancer cell lines demonstrated that the T790M mutation confers resistance to the EGFR mutants that were usually sensitive to either gefitinib or erlotinib Kobayashi et al. . 2005 352 786 792 .

Tumors arising from mutant EGFR require the continuous expression activity of the oncogene for survival. This is based on the regression of mutant EGFR lung tumors that were treated with erlotinib and gefitinb and has also been demonstrated for lung tumors arising in mice with controlled expression of oncogenic egfr Politi et al. . 2006 20 1496 1510 and kras Fisher et al. . 2001 15 3249 3262 . The mutant oncogene may alter a normal cell so that continued expression or function of the oncogene is required to prevent the cell from entering an apoptotic or differentiation pathway. Very likely the protein encoded by the mutant oncogene activates multiple signaling pathways in such a way that sudden loss of a signal dependent on a mutant oncoprotein removes a block to other signals that direct apoptosis or differentiation.

There are currently no approved therapeutic drugs that are effective against lung tumors with the T790M EGFR mutation. Moreover there has been no success in developing agents that would target KRAS. Given the high prevalence of KRAS mutations in lung and other cancers a drug that targets this type of cancer is urgently needed.

The present invention is directed to pyridazinone and furan containing compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs isomers and tautomers thereof pharmaceutical compositions kits methods of syntheses and methods of treating proliferative diseases e.g. neoplasia such as cancer e.g. lung cancer in a subject by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug isomer or tautomer thereof. Furthermore the compounds of the present invention may target a common effector in the oncogenic EGFR and or KRAS pathways and may be so identified using cell based screens as described herein. Such compounds are effective in the treatment of cancers associated with EGFR and or KRAS mutations.

wherein X is oxygen or N R wherein Ris hydrogen optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted sulfinyl optionally substituted sulfonyl optionally substituted hydroxy or optionally substituted amino 

when a is a double bond b is a single bond and R R and R are independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic hctcroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo or Rand Rare joined to form a 5 to 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and Ris as defined above or Rand Rare joined to form a 5 to 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and Ris as defined above or

when a is a single bond b is a double bond and Rand the carbon directly attached to Rform an O S or NR group wherein Ris hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo and Rand Rare independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo 

Ar is a group selected from aryl heteroaryl aliphatic optionally substituted with aryl or heteroaryl or heteroaliphatic optionally substituted with aryl or heteroaryl each group optionally substituted with aliphatic heteroaliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo 

wherein each instance of R R and Ris independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo or Rand Rare joined to form a 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and Ris as defined above 

each instance of Rand Ris independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde hydrazino optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo or Rand Rare joined to form an 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted heterocyclic or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring 

J and J together form an oxo O thiooxo S or imino NR group wherein Ris hydrogen optionally substituted hydroxy optionally substituted amino optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted sulfonyl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted aliphatic or optionally substituted heteroaliphatic or each instance of J and J is independently hydrogen optionally substituted aliphatic or optionally substituted heteroaliphatic 

In another aspect the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a compound of formula II or pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs isomers or tautomers thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

In another aspect the present invention provides kits comprising at least one compound of formula I or at least one compound of formula II or pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs isomers or tautomers thereof . A kit of the invention can include additional solvents buffers or excipients for pre mixing before oral or parental administration means for oral or parental administration or additional chemotherapeutic agents.

The present invention also provides a method of treating proliferative diseases in a subject by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug isomer or tautomer thereof . In certain embodiments the proliferative disease is cancer. In certain embodiments the cancer is renal cancer bladder cancer liver cancer testicular cancer ovarian cancer colorectal cancer prostate cancer pancreatic cancer lung cancer breast cancer brain cancer bone cancer stomach cancer oral cancer skin cancer blood cancer or leukemia. In certain embodiments the cancer is associated with EGFR and or KRAS mutations. In certain embodiments the cancer is lung cancer. In certain embodiments the lung cancer is human non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma squamous cell carcinoma and large cell carcinoma .

Definitions of specific functional groups and chemical terms are described in more detail below. For purposes of this invention the chemical elements are identified in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements CAS version Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 75Ed. inside cover and specific functional groups are generally defined as described therein. Additionally general principles of organic chemistry as well as specific functional moieties and reactivity are described in Thomas Sorrell University Science Books Sausalito 1999 Smith and March 5Edition John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 2001 Larock VCH Publishers Inc. New York 1989 Carruthers 3Edition Cambridge University Press Cambridge 1987 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Certain compounds of the present invention may exist in particular geometric or stereoisomeric forms. The present invention contemplates all such compounds including cis and trans isomers R and S enantiomers diastereomers D isomers L isomers the racemic mixtures thereof and other mixtures thereof as falling within the scope of the invention. Additional asymmetric carbon atoms may be present in a substituent such as an alkyl group. All such isomers as well as mixtures thereof are intended to be included in this invention.

Where an isomer enantiomer is preferred it may in some embodiments be provided substantially free of the corresponding enantiomer and may also be referred to as optically enriched. Thus an optically enriched isomer enantiomer refers to a compound which is isolated or separated via separation techniques or prepared free of the corresponding isomer enantiomer. Optically enriched as used herein means that the compound is made up of a significantly greater proportion of one enantiomer. In certain embodiments the compound is made up of at least about 90 by weight of a preferred enantiomer. In other embodiments the compound is made up of at least about 95 98 or 99 by weight of a preferred enantiomer. Preferred enantiomers may be isolated from racemic mixtures by any method known to those skilled in the art including chiral high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC and the formation and crystallization of chiral salts or prepared by asymmetric syntheses. See for example Jacques et al. Wiley Interscience New York 1981 Wilen S. H. et al. 33 2725 1977 Eliel E. L. McGraw Hill NY 1962 Wilen S. H. p. 268 E. L. Eliel Ed. Univ. of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame Ind. 1972 .

It will be appreciated that the compounds as described herein may be substituted with any number of substituents or functional moieties. In general the term substituted whether preceded by the term optionally or not and substituents contained in formulas of this invention refer to the replacement of hydrogen radicals in a given structure with the radical of a specified substituent. When more than one position in any given structure may be substituted with more than one substituent selected from a specified group the substituent may be either the same or different at every position. As used herein the term substituted is contemplated to include all permissible substituents of organic compounds. In a broad aspect the permissible substituents include acyclic and cyclic branched and unbranched carbocyclic and heterocyclic aromatic and nonaromatic substituents of organic compounds. For purposes of this invention heteroatoms such as nitrogen may have hydrogen substituents and or any permissible substituents of organic compounds described herein which satisfy the valencies of the heteroatoms. Furthermore this invention is not intended to be limited in any manner by the permissible substituents of organic compounds.

Examples of substituents are defined herein and include but are not limited to aliphatic carbocyclic alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aliphaticoxy alkyloxy alkenyloxy alkynyloxy aliphaticthioxy alkylthioxy alkenylthioxy alkynylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano amino azido hydrazino nitro oxo thiooxo imino hydroxy thio halo aryloxy arylthioxy and arylamino wherein any of the substituents described above and herein may be substituted or unsubstituted branched or unbranched cyclic or acyclic which result in the formation of a stable moiety. These substituents recited above may be optionally substituted by additional substituents such as oxo thioxo or imino or may be optionally substituted by any of the substituents recited above given that the combination results in a stable moiety. Exemplary substituent combinations include for example perfluoroaliphatic perfluoroaliphaticoxy aminoaliphatic hydroxyaliphatic thioaliphatic arylaliphatic heteroarylaliphatic arylaliphaticthioxy arylaliphaticoxy arylaliphaticamino heteroaliphaticoxy heteroaliphaticthioxy heteroaliphaticamino Additional examples of generally applicable substituents are illustrated by the specific embodiments and in the Examples as described herein.

The term stable moiety as used herein preferably refers to a moiety which possess stability sufficient to allow manufacture and which maintains its integrity for a sufficient period of time to be useful for the purposes detailed herein.

The term aliphatic as used herein includes both saturated and unsaturated nonaromatic straight chain i.e. unbranched branched acyclic cyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbons which are optionally substituted with one or more functional groups. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aliphatic is intended herein to include but is not limited to alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkynyl moieties. Thus as used herein the term alkyl includes straight branched and cyclic alkyl groups. An analogous convention applies to other generic terms such as alkenyl alkynyl and the like. Furthermore as used herein the terms alkyl alkenyl alkynyl and the like encompass both substituted and unsubstituted groups. In certain embodiments as used herein alkyl is used to indicate those alkyl groups cyclic acyclic substituted unsubstituted branched or unbranched having 1 6 carbon atoms. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term carbocyclic carbocycle or carbocycyl as used herein refers to a cyclic aliphatic group such as a cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and cycloalkynyl which may be substituted or unsubstituted. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to saturated straight or branched chain hydrocarbon radicals derived from a hydrocarbon moiety containing between one and twenty carbon atoms by removal of a single hydrogen atom. In some embodiments the alkyl group employed in the invention contains 1 10 carbon atoms. In another embodiment the alkyl group employed contains 1 8 carbon atoms. In still other embodiments the alkyl group contains 1 6 carbon atoms. In yet another embodiments the alkyl group contains 1 4 carbons. Examples of alkyl radicals include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl sec pentyl iso pentyl tert butyl n pentyl neopentyl n hexyl sec hexyl n heptyl n octyl n dccyl n undecyl dodecyl and the like which may bear one or more substitutents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term alkenyl as used herein denotes a monovalent group derived from a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon moiety having at least one carbon carbon double bond by the removal of a single hydrogen atom. In certain embodiments the alkenyl group employed in the invention contains 1 20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkenyl group employed in the invention contains 1 10 carbon atoms. In another embodiment the alkenyl group employed contains 1 8 carbon atoms. In still other embodiments the alkenyl group contains 1 6 carbon atoms. In yet another embodiments the alkenyl group contains 1 4 carbons. Alkenyl groups include for example ethenyl propenyl butenyl 1 methyl 2 buten 1 yl and the like which may bear one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term alkynyl as used herein refers to a monovalent group derived from a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon having at least one carbon carbon triple bond by the removal of a single hydrogen atom. In certain embodiments the alkynyl group employed in the invention contains 1 20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkynyl group employed in the invention contains 1 10 carbon atoms. In another embodiment the alkynyl group employed contains 1 8 carbon atoms. In still other embodiments the alkynyl group contains 1 6 carbon atoms. Representative alkynyl groups include but are not limited to ethynyl 2 propynyl propargyl 1 propynyl and the like which may bear one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term aliphaticoxy as used herein refers to an aliphatic group defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom. In certain embodiments the aliphatic group contains 1 20 aliphatic carbon atoms. In certain other embodiments the aliphatic group employed in the invention contain 1 8 aliphatic carbon atoms. In still other embodiments the aliphatic group contains 1 6 aliphatic carbon atoms. In yet other embodiments the aliphatic group contains 1 4 aliphatic carbon atoms. Examples include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy tert butoxy i butoxy sec butoxy neopentoxy n hexoxy and the like which may bear one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the above listed substituents and that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The terms alkyloxy alkenyloxy and alkynyloxy refer to an alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl group respectively attached to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom.

The terms aliphaticthioxy as used herein refer to an aliphatic group attached to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfur atom. In certain embodiments the aliphatic group contains 1 20 aliphatic carbon atoms. In certain other embodiments the aliphatic group contains 1 10 aliphatic carbon atoms. In yet other embodiments the aliphatic group contains 1 8 aliphatic carbon atoms. In still other embodiments the aliphatic group contains 1 6 aliphatic carbon atoms. In yet other embodiments the aliphatic group contain 1 4 aliphatic carbon atoms. Examples of aliphaticthioxy moieties include but are not limited to methylthio ethylthio propylthio isopropylthio n butylthio and the like.

The terms alkylthioxy alkenylthioxy and alkynylthioxy refer to an alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl group respectively attached to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfur atom.

The term heteroaliphatic as used herein refers to an aliphatic moiety as defined herein that contain one or more oxygen sulfur nitrogen phosphorus or silicon atoms e.g. in place of carbon atoms. In certain embodiments heteroaliphatic moieties are substituted by independent replacement of one or more of the hydrogen atoms thereon with one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term heterocyclic or heterocyclyl as used herein refers to an non aromatic partially unsaturated or fully saturated 3 to 10 membered ring system which includes single rings of 3 to 8 atoms in size and bi and tri cyclic ring systems which may include aromatic five or six membered aryl or heteroaryl groups fused to a non aromatic ring. These heterocyclic rings include those having from one to three heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen sulfur and nitrogen in which the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized. In certain embodiments the term heterocylic refers to a non aromatic 5 6 or 7 membered ring or polycyclic group wherein at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from O S and N wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized and the remaining ring atoms are carbon the radical being joined to the rest of the molecule via any of the ring atoms. Heterocycyl groups include but are not limited to a bi or tri cyclic group comprising fused five six or seven membered rings having between one and three heteroatoms independently selected from the oxygen sulfur and nitrogen wherein i each 5 membered ring has 0 to 2 double bonds each 6 membered ring has 0 to 2 double bonds and each 7 membered ring has 0 to 3 double bonds ii the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized iii the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized and iv any of the above heterocyclic rings may be fused to an aryl or heteroaryl ring. Exemplary heterocycles include azacyclopropanyl azacyclobutanyl piperidinyl piperazinyl azocanyl thiaranyl thietanyl tetrahydrothiophenyl dithiolanyl thiacyclohexanyl oxiranyl oxetanyl tetrahydropuranyl tetrahydropuranyl dioxanyl oxathiolanyl morpholinyl thioxanyl tetrahydronaphthyl and the like which may bear one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term aryl as used herein refer to stable aromatic mono or polycyclic ring system having 3 20 ring atoms of which all ring atoms are carbon and which may be substituted or unsubstituted. In certain embodiments of the present invention aryl refers to a mono bi or tricyclic C Caromatic ring system having one two or three aromatic rings which include but not limited to phenyl biphenyl naphthyl and the like which may bear one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term heteroaryl as used herein refer to stable aromatic mono or polycyclic ring system having 3 20 ring atoms of which one ring atom is selected from S O and N zero one or two ring atoms are additional heteroatoms independently selected from S O and N and the remaining ring atoms are carbon the radical being joined to the rest of the molecule via any of the ring atoms. Exemplary heteroaryls include but are not limited to pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl tetrazinyl pyyrolizinyl indolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzoimidazolyl indazolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl quinolizinyl cinnolinyl quinazolynyl phthalazinyl naphthridinyl quinoxalinyl thiophenyl thianaphthenyl furanyl benzofuranyl benzothiazolyl thiazolynyl isothiazolyl thiadiazolynyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiaziolyl oxadiaziolyl and the like which may bear one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term acyl as used herein refers to a group having the general formula C O R where R is hydrogen halogen hydroxy thio amino aliphatic carbocyclic heteroaliphatic alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl alkyloxy alkylthioxy alkylamino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino aryl heteroaryl or heterocycyl. Exemplary acyl groups include aldehydes carboxylic acids ketones such as an acetyl group C O CH esters amides carbonates carbamates and ureas.

The term acyloxy as used herein refers to an acyl group of the formula OC O R where R may be hydrogen hydroxy thio amino aliphatic carbocyclic heteroaliphatic alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl aliphaticoxy aliphaticthioxy aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino aryl heteroaryl or heterocycyl.

The term amide or amido as used herein refers to an acyl group having the general formula C O N R R N H C O R or N R C O R where each instance of R is hydrogen hydroxy thio amino aliphatic carbocyclic heteroaliphatic alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl alkyloxy alkylthioxy alkylamino dialkylamino arylamino di arylamino aryl heteroaryl or heterocycyl.

The term imide or imido as used herein refers to a group having the general formula C NR R OC NH R OC NR R C NH R N H C NH R N H C NR R N R C NH R or N R C NR R where each instance of R is independently aliphatic heteroaliphatic aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclyl.

The term sulfinyl as used herein refers to a group of the formula R S O where there is one double bond between the sulfur and oxygen and where R may be aliphatic aryl alkoxy hydroxy thiol alkylthioxy amino alkylamino dialkylamino aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclyl. The term aliphaticsulfinyl refers to a sulfinyl group where R may be aliphatic heterocyclyl or heteroaliphatic. The term arylsulfinyl refers to a sulfinyl group where R may be aryl or heteroaryl.

The term sulfonyl as used herein refers to an organic radical or functional group obtained from an sulfonic acid by the removal of the hydroxyl group. Sulfonyl groups can be written as having the general formula R S O where there are two double bonds between the sulfur and oxygen and where R may be aliphatic heteroaliphatic aryl alkyloxy hydroxy thiol alkylthioxy amino alkylamino dialkylamino aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclic. The term aliphaticsulfonyl refers to a sulfonyl group where R may be aliphatic heteroaliphatic or heterocyclic. The term arylsulfonyl refers to a sulfonyl group where R may be aryl or heteroaryl. The names of sulfonyl groups typically end in syl such as tosyl toluene sulfonyl CHCHSO mesyl methyl sulfonyl CHSO etc.

The terms aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino and trialiphaticamino as used herein refers to one two or three respectively aliphatic heterocyclyl or heteroaliphatic groups as previously defined attached to the parent molecular moiety through a nitrogen atom. The term aliphaticamino refers to a group having the structure NHR wherein R is an aliphatic heterocyclyl or heteroaliphatic group as previously defined and the term dialiphaticamino refers to a group having the structure NR R wherein R and R are each independently selected from the group consisting of aliphatic heterocyclyl or heteroaliphatic groups. The term trialiphaticamino refers to a group having the structure NR R R wherein R R and R are each independently selected from the group consisting of aliphatic heterocyclyl or heteroaliphatic groups. In certain embodiments the R R or R groups contain 1 20 carbon atoms. In certain other embodiments the R R or R groups contain 1 10 carbon atoms. In yet other embodiments the R R or R groups contain 1 8 carbon atoms. In still other embodiments the R R or R groups contain 1 6 carbon atoms. In yet other embodiments the R R or R groups contain 1 4 carbon atoms. Additionally R R and or R taken together may optionally be joined to form a five to six membered ring system. Examples include but are not limited to methylamino dimethylamino ethylamino diethylamino diethylaminocarbonyl methylethylamino iso propylamino piperidino piperazinyl pyrrolidinyl trimethylamino and propylamino. In certain embodiments the R R or R groups are substituted by independent replacement of one or more of the hydrogen atoms thereon with one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The terms arylamino and diarylamino as used herein refers to one or two respectively aryl or heteroaryl groups as previously defined attached to the parent molecular moiety through a nitrogen atom. The term arylamino refers to a group having the structure NHR wherein R is an aryl or heteroaryl group as previously defined and the term diarylamino refers to a group having the structure NR R wherein R and R are each independently selected from the group consisting of aryl and heteroaryl. In certain embodiments the R or R groups are substituted by independent replacement of one or more of the hydrogen atoms thereon with one or more substituents. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term perfluoroaliphatic as used herein refers to an aliphatic group as defined herein that has only fluorine substituents. Such perfluoroaliphatic include trifluoromethyl CF .

The term perfluoroaliphaticoxy as used herein refers to a perfluoroaliphatic group as defined herein that is attached to the parent group through an oxygen atom.

The terms carboxaldehyde or carboxyaldehyde as used herein refers to an acyl group of the formula CHO.

The term hydrazino as used herein refers to a group of the formula N R N R R wherein each instance of R R or R is a hydrogen or a substituent. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term imino as used herein refers to a group of the formula NR wherein R is a hydrogen or a substituent. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The terms halo and halogen as used herein refer to an atom selected from fluorine fluoro chlorine chloro bromine bromo and iodine iodo .

The term aminoaliphatic as used herein refers to an amino group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through an aliphatic group.

The term hydroxyaliphatic as used herein refers to a hydroxy group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moeity through an aliphatic group.

The term thioaliphatic as used herein refers to a thio group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through an aliphatic group.

The term arylaliphatic as used herein refers to an aryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moeity through an aliphatic group.

The term heteroarylaliphatic as used herein refers to a heteroaryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through an aliphatic group.

The term aryloxy as used herein refers to an aryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom.

The term arylthioxy as used herein refers to an aryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfur atom.

The term arylamino as used herein refers to an aryl group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through a nitrogen atom N R wherein R is a hydrogen or a substituent. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term arylaliphaticthioxy as used herein refers to an arylaliphatic group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfur atom.

The term arylaliphaticoxy as used herein refers to an arylaliphatic group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom.

The term arylaliphaticamino as used herein refers to an arylaliphatic group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through a nitrogen atom N R wherein R is a hydrogen or a substituent. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term heteroaliphaticoxy as used herein refers to a heteroaliphatic group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom.

The term heteroaliphaticthioxy as used herein refers to a heteroaliphatic group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfur atom.

The term heteroaliphaticamino as used herein refers to a heteroaliphatic group as defined herein attached to the parent molecular moiety through a nitrogen atom N R R wherein R and R is independently a hydrogen or a substituent. Substituents include but are not limited to any of the substituents described herein that result in the formation of a stable moiety.

The term neoplasia or neoplastic or neoplasm as used herein refers to the abnormal growth of tissue in a subject and may be either benign or malignant.

The presently claimed invention is directed to the treatment of neoplasia in a subject. In certain embodiments the neoplasia is a tumor. Tn certain embodiments the neoplasia is a benign tumor. In certain embodiments the neoplasia is a malignant tumor i.e. cancer .

The term proliferative disease as used herein refers to any disease associated with an undesired and or abnormal proliferation of cells. The cells may be any type of cell found in the subject. The proliferation may be due to any cause e.g. any genetic mutation any signal . Examples of proliferative diseases include cancer neoplasms inflammatory diseases autoimmune diseases graft vs. host disease diabetic retinopathy and benign tumors.

By the term cancer is meant a malignant neoplasm. Cancers are classified by the type of cell that resembles the tumor and therefore the tissue presumed to be the origin of the tumor e.g. carcinoma malignant tumors derived from epithelial cells and represents the most common cancers including breast prostate lung and colon cancer lymphoma and leukemia malignant tumors derived from blood and bone marrow cells sarcoma malignant tumors derived from connective tissue or mesenchymal cells mesothelioma tumors derived from the mesothelial cells lining the peritoneum and the pleura glioma tumors derived from glia the most common type of brain cell germinoma tumors derived from germ cells normally found in the testicle and ovary choriocarcinoma malignant tumors derived from the placenta. In certain embodiments the presently claimed invention is directed to the treatment of prostate cancer lung cancer breast cancer brain cancer bone cancer stomach cancer oral cancer skin cancer melanoma colorectal cancer bladder cancer pancreatic cancer endometrial cancer ovarian cancer endometrial cancer cutaneous melanoma leukemia non Hodgkin s lymphoma Wilms tumor lymphomas rhabdomyosarcoma arising from muscle retinoblastoma osteosarcoma or Ewing s sarcoma in a subject.

The term subject as used herein refers to any animal. In certain embodiments the subject is a mammal. In certain embodiments the term subject as used herein refers to a human e.g. a man a woman or a child .

The terms administer administering or administration as used herein refer to either directly administering a compound or composition to a patient or administering a prodrug derivative or analog of the compound to the patient which will form an equivalent amount of the active compound or substance within the patient s body.

The terms treat or treating as used herein refers to partially or completely alleviating inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or relieving the condition.

The terms effective amount and therapeutically effective amount as used herein refer to the amount of a compound of the presently claimed invention that when administered to a patient is effective to at least partially treat a condition from which the subject is suffering. Conditions include but are not limited to renal cancer bladder cancer liver cancer testicular cancer ovarian cancer colorectal cancer prostate cancer pancreatic cancer lung cancer breast cancer brain cancer bone cancer stomach cancer oral cancer skin cancer blood cancer leukemia non Hodgkin s lymphoma Wilms tumor lymphomas rhabdomyosarcoma retinoblastoma osteosarcoma Ewing s sarcoma or any other disorder as described herein. To be therapeutically effective against tumors or cancers as used herein is meant reducing the neoplasm or slowing or halting the growth or spread of the neoplasm e.g. tumor or cancer in a subject diagnosed or suffering from a tumor or cancer.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts or pharmaceutically acceptable salt includes acid addition salts that is salts derived from treating a compound of the presently claimed invention with an organic or inorganic acid such as for example acetic lactic citric cinnamic tartaric succinic fumaric maleic malonic mandelic malic oxalic propionic hydrochloric hydrobromic phosphoric nitric sulfuric glycolic pyruvic methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic toluencsulfonic salicylic benzoic or similarly known acceptable acids. Where a compound the presently claimed invention contains a substituent with acidic properties for instance phenolic hydroxyl the term also includes salts derived from bases for example sodium salts.

The term prodrug as used herein is meant a compound which is administered to a subject in an inactive or significantly less active form. Once administered the prodrug is metabolised in vivo for example by deacylation dephosphorylation hydrolysis or epimerization into a more active compound.

The term isomers as used herein is meant two or more organic compounds that are configurational isomers e.g. isomers that are constitutionally identical but differ by a 3D distribution of groups in space . Configurational isomers include geometric isomers e.g. cis trans E Z and stereoisomers e.g. enantiomers diastereomers atropisomers .

The term tautomers as used herein is meant two or more organic compounds generated from each other by a formal migration of a hydrogen atom and accompanied by an exchange of valencies between a single bond and an adjacent double bond i.e. a tautomerization reaction. Tautomers include keto enol amide imidic lactam lactim enamine imine and enamine imine. In solutions where tautomerization is possible a chemical equilibrium of the tautomers will be reached. The exact ratio of the tautomers depends on several factors including temperature solvent and pH.

The present invention is directed to pyridazinone and furan containing compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs isomers and tautomers thereof pharmaceutical compositions kits methods of syntheses and methods of treating proliferative diseases such as cancer e.g. lung cancer in a subject by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug isomer or tautomer thereof.

Furthermore the compounds of the present invention may target a common effector in the oncogenic EGFR and or KRAS pathways and may be so identified using cell based screens as described herein. Such compounds are effective in the treatment of cancers that are associated with EGFR and or KRAS mutations.

Pyridazinone compounds of the present invention correspond to compounds of formula I as depicted below 

Ris hydrogen optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted sulfinyl optionally substituted sulfonyl optionally substituted hydroxy or optionally substituted amino 

 i when a is a double bond b is a single bond and R R and R are independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo or Rand Rare joined to form a 5 to 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and Ris as defined above or Rand Rare joined to form a 5 to 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and Ris as defined above or

 ii when a is a single bond b is a double bond and Rand the carbon directly attached to Rform an O S or NR group wherein Ris hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo and Rand Rare independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo 

Ar is a group selected from aryl heteroaryl aliphatic optionally substituted with aryl aliphatic optionally substituted with heteroaryl heteroaliphatic optionally substituted with aryl or heteroaliphatic optionally substituted with heteroaryl each group optionally substituted with aliphatic heteroaliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo 

In certain embodiments the compound 4 5 dichloro 2 m tolyl 2H pyridazin 3 one SKI 104122 as depicted below is specifically excluded from compounds of formula I 

In certain embodiments Rand Rare the same and Ris hydrogen halo optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl or optionally substituted hydroxy.

In other embodiments Rand Rare both chloro. In other embodiments Rand Rare both bromo. In other embodiments Rand Rare both iodo. In other embodiments Rand Rare both fluoro.

In other embodiments Rand Rare both optionally substituted hydroxy. In yet other embodiments Rand Rare both optionally substituted thio. In yet other embodiments Rand Rare both optionally substituted amino.

In yet other embodiments Rand Rare both optionally substituted aliphatic. In yet other embodiments Rand Rare both optionally substituted heterocylic.

In certain embodiments the compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare the same have one of the following structural formulae 

wherein X is oxygen or or NR Hal is bromo chloro iodo or fluoro Het is an optionally substituted heterocycyl each instance of Ris hydrogen or an optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted sulfinyl or optionally substituted sulfonyl or two Rgroups are joined to form a 5 to 6 membered optionally substituted heterocyclic ring and each instance of Ris hydrogen or an optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted sulfinyl or optionally substituted sulfonyl or two Rgroups are joined to form a 5 to 6 membered optionally substituted heterocyclic ring.

In certain embodiments Rand Rare the different and Ris hydrogen halo optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl or optionally substituted hydroxy.

In certain embodiments Rand Rare the different and are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halo cyano nitro azido optionally substituted hydroxy optionally substituted thio optionally substituted amino optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl.

In certain embodiments compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare the different correspond to the following structural formulae 

wherein X Hal Het R and Rare as described above and EWG electron withdrawing group is acyl e.g. carboxylic acid carboxaldehyde ester amide imide ketone nitro or cyano Aliphatic is optionally substituted aliphatic and each instance of Ris hydrogen or an optionally substituted amino optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted sulfinyl or optionally substituted sulfonyl or two Rgroups both groups present on the same nitrogen are joined to form a 5 to 6 membered optionally substituted heterocyclic ring an azido group N or an optionally substituted hydrazino group.

In certain embodiments the Ar group of compounds of formula I corresponds to an optionally substituted aryl or an aliphatic group optionally substituted with aryl. Exemplary aryl groups include phenyl napthyl and biphenyl. In certain embodiments the Ar group is an optionally substituted phenyl group.

In certain embodiments the Ar group of compounds of formula I corresponds to an optionally substituted heteroaryl or an aliphatic group optionally substituted with heteroaryl. Exemplary heteroaryl groups include pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl tetrazinyl pyyrolizinyl indolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzimidazolyl indazolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl quinolizinyl cinnolinyl quinazolynyl phthalazinyl naphthridinyl quinoxalinyl thiophenyl thianaphthenyl furanyl benzofuranyl thiazolynyl isothiazolyl thiadiazolynyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiaziolyl and oxadiaziolyl. In certain embodiments the Ar group is an optionally substituted pyridinyl group.

In certain embodiments the Ar group of compounds of formula I correspond to the following structural formula 

W is a carbon or nitrogen atom with the proviso that when W is nitrogen the group directly attached to nitrogen e.g. R R R R or R is an electron pair and

when W is a carbon then the group directly attached to the carbon e.g. R R R R or R is as defined herein 

each instance of R R R R and Ris independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic heteroaliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo or

Rand Rmay be joined to form a 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring Rand Rmay be joined to form a 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring Rand Rmay be joined to form a 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring or Rand Rmay be joined to form a 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and

In certain embodiments when n is 0 Ris not hydrogen. In certain embodiments when n is 1 R R R R and Rare all hydrogen. In certain embodiments when Ris not hydrogen Ris also not hydrogen. In certain embodiments when Ris not hydrogen Ris hydrogen.

In certain embodiments for compounds having an Ar group corresponding to structural formula Ia Ar Ris halo optionally substituted hydroxy optionally substituted aliphatic or optionally substituted heteroaliphatic. In certain embodiments Ris bromo chloro iodo methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl trifluoromethyl benzyl or methoxy.

In certain embodiments for compounds having an Ar group corresponding to structural formula Ib Ar Rand Rare independently halo optionally substituted hydroxy optionally substituted aliphatic or optionally substituted heteroaliphatic. In certain embodiments Ris bromo chloro iodo methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl trifluoromethyl benzyl or methoxy and Ris bromo chloro iodo methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl trifluoromethyl benzyl or methoxy.

In certain embodiments for compounds having an Ar group corresponding to structural formula Ic Ar Rand Rare independently halo optionally substituted hydroxy optionally substituted aliphatic or optionally substituted heteroaliphatic or Rand Rmay be joined to form a 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring. In certain embodiments Ris bromo chloro iodo methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl trifluoromethyl benzyl or methoxy and Ris bromo chloro iodo methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl trifluoromethyl benzyl or methoxy.

In certain embodiments for compounds having an Ar group corresponding to structural formula Id Ar Rand Rare independently halo optionally substituted hydroxy optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl. In certain embodiments Ris bromo chloro iodo fluoro methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl trifluoromethyl benzyl or methoxy and Ris bromo chloro iodo fluoro methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl trifluoromethyl benzyl or methoxy.

In certain embodiments for compounds having an Ar group of formula I corresponding to structural formula Ic Ar the group corresponds to the following structural formulae 

wherein H E and F are sulfur oxygen N H or CH G is carbon or nitrogen p is 0 to 1 and R R and R are independently hydrogen optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted heteroaliphatic or optionally substituted aliphatic.

In certain embodiments for compounds having an Ar group of formula I corresponding to structural formula Ic Ar the group corresponds to the following structural formulae 

wherein each instance of R R and R is independently hydrogen methyl ethyl phenyl or benzyl optionally substituted with bromo chloro iodo fluoro methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl trifluoromethyl or methoxy.

In certain embodiments compounds of formula I correspond to compounds wherein X is oxygen. Such compounds of formula I are exemplified in Table 1 

In certain embodiments compounds of formula I correspond to compounds 7a 7c 9a 9n 12a 12c 14 15a 15c 16 17 20a 20b 21 23 and 29 31 as depicted above in Table 1. In certain embodiments compounds of formula I correspond to compounds 7a 7c 9a 9n 12a 12c 14 15a 15c 16 17 and 20a 20b.

In certain embodiments compounds of formula I correspond to compounds wherein X is NR and wherein Ris hydrogen optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted sulfinyl optionally substituted sulfonyl optionally substituted hydroxy or optionally substituted amino. In certain embodiments X is NH. Such compounds of formula I are exemplified in Table 2 

In certain embodiments compounds of formula I correspond to compounds wherein a is a single bond b is a double bond Rand the carbon directly attached to Rforms the group NR and Ris hydrogen optionally substituted aliphatic optionally substituted heteroaliphatic optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted sulfinyl optionally substituted sulfonyl optionally substituted hydroxy or optionally substituted amino. In certain embodiments Ris optionally substituted amino. In certain embodiments Ris NH. In certain embodiments Ris NH CH . Such compounds of formula I are exemplified in Table 3 

The present invention is also directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug isomer or tautomer thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are well known in the art and include without limitation purified water mannitol sorbit silicon dioxide terpenes e.g. menthol alcohols e.g. ethanol propylene glycol glycerol and other similar alcohols organic solvents e.g. dimethylsulfoxide dimethylformamide dimethylacctamide waxes saccharides oligosaccharides and or polysaccharides e.g. starch or starch fragments corn starch glucose galactose lactose cellulose dextrins amino acids gums e.g. xanthan gum locust bean gum British gum and the like or mixtures thereof.

The present invention is also directed to methods of treating a proliferative dsease in a subject by administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug isomer or tautomer thereof. The present application also contemplates a method of treating a proliferative disease in a subject by administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug or tautomer thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

In certain embodiments the proliferative disease is neoplasia. Neoplasia as used herein refers to the abnormal growth of tissue in a subject and may be either benign or malignant. In certain embodiments the neoplasia is a tumor. In certain embodiments the neoplasia is cancer. In certain embodiments the cancer is renal cancer bladder cancer liver cancer testicular cancer ovarian cancer colorectal cancer prostate cancer pancreatic cancer lung cancer breast cancer brain cancer bone cancer stomach cancer oral cancer skin cancer blood cancer or leukemia. In certain embodiments the cancer is non Hodgkin s lymphoma Wilms tumor lymphomas rhabdomyosarcoma arising from muscle retinoblastoma osteosarcoma or Ewing s sarcoma. in certain embodiments the cancer is lung cancer. In certain embodiments the lung cancer is human non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma squamous cell carcinoma and large cell carcinoma . In certain embodiments the cancer is associated with EGFR and or KRAS mutations.

In certain embodiments compounds of formula I are effective against a cancer or a tumor. To be effective against tumors or cancers as used herein is meant reducing the mass e.g. a tumor or cancer or slowing or halting the growth or spread of the mass in a subject diagnosed or suffering from a tumor or cancer. In certain embodiments compounds of formula I are therapeutically effective against a cancer or a tumor with EGFR and or KRAS mutations. In certain embodiments compounds of formula I are therapeutically effective against a lung cancer or a lung tumor with EGFR and or KRAS mutations.

The form of administration of a compound of the invention to a subject is not particularly restricted and can be oral or a parenteral administration using generally employed methods. For example administration may be enteral by mouth by feeding tube rectally parenteral by injection or infusion e.g. intravenous intraarterial intramuscular intracardiac subcutaneous intradermal intrathecal intraperitoneal and or parenteral other than injection e.g. transdermal transmucosal or by inhalation .

Although the administered dosage of a compound of the invention will differ depending on severity of symptoms age gender body weight form of administration and type of disease etc. dosages may fall between about 0.01 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day for an adult and such dosages may be administered once or divided over several days. In certain embodiments a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I is between about 0.01 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day. In certain embodiments a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I is at least 0.01 mg kg day 0.05 mg kg day 0.10 mg kg day 1.0 mg kg day 5.0 mg kg day 10 mg kg day 15 mg kg day 20 mg kg day 30 mg kg day 40 mg kg day 50 mg kg day 60 mg kg day 70 mg kg day 80 mg kg day 90 mg kg day or 100 mg kg day.

The present invention is also directed to kits comprising at least one compound of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs isomers or tautomers thereof. A kit of the invention can be particularly useful if it provides additional solvents buffers or excipients for pre mixing before administration to a subject or if it provides a means for oral or parental administration e.g. syringes or graduated measurement cups . A kit of the invention can also be particularly useful if it contains additional chemotherapeutic agents for use in combination with a compound of formula I . For instance a physician may wish to administer to a subject one or more compounds of formula I in combination with one or more additional chemotherapeutic agents.

Exemplary additional chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to 13 cis Retinoic Acid 2 CdA 2 Chlorodcoxyadcnosinc 5 Fluorouracil 5 FU 6 Mercaptopurine 6 MP 6 TG 6 Thioguanine Abraxane ACCUTANE ACTINOMYCIN D ADRIAMYON ADRUCIL AGRYLIN ALA CORT Aldesleukin Alemtuzumab ALIMTA Alitretinoin ALKABAN AQ ALKERAN All transretinoic acid Alpha interferon Altretamine Amethopterin Amifostine Aminoglutethimide Anagrelide ANANDRON Anastrozole Arabinosylcytosine Ara C ARANESP AREDIA ARIMIDEX AROMASIN ARRANON Arsenic trioxide Asparaginase ATRA AVASTIN Azacitidine BCG BCNU Bevacizumab Bexarotene BEXXAR Bicalutamidc BiCNU BLENOXANE Bleomycin Bortczomib Busulfan BUSULFEX C225 Calcium Leucovorin CAMPATH CAMPTOSAR Camptothecin 11 Capecitabine CARAC Carboplatin Carmustine Carmustine wafer CASODEX CC 5013 CCNU CDDP CeeNU CERUBIDINE Cetuximab Chlorambucil Cisplatin Citrovorum Factor Cladribine Cortisone COSMEGEN CPT 11 Cyclophosphamide CYTADREN Cytarabine Cytarabine liposomal CYTOSAR U CYTOXAN Dacarbazine Dacogen Dactinomycin Darbepoetin alfa Daunomycin Daunorubicin Daunorubicin hydrochloride Daunorubicin liposomal DAUNOXOME Decadron Decitabine DELTA CORTEF DELTASONE Denileukin diftitox DEPOCYT Dexamethasone Dexamethasone acetate Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Dexasone Dexrazoxane DHAD DIC Diodex Docetaxel DOXIL Doxorubicin Doxorubicin liposomal DROXIA DTIC DTIC DOME DURALONE EFUDEX ELIGARD ELLENCE ELOXATIN ELSPAR EMCYT Epirubicin Epoetin alfa ERBITUXT Erlotinib Erwinia L asparaginase Estramustine Ethyol ETOPOPHOS Etoposide Etoposide Phosphate EULEXIN Evista Exemestane FARESTON FASLODEX FEMARA Filgrastim Floxuridine FLUDARA Fludarabine FLUOROPLEX Fluorouracil Fluorouracil cream Fluoxymesterone Flutamide Folinic Acid FUDR Fulvestrant G CSF Gefitinib Gemcitabine Gemtuzumab ozogamicin GEMZAR GLEEVEC Gliadel wafer GM CSF Goserelin granulocyte colony stimulating factor Granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor Halotestin Herceptin Hexadrol Hexylen Hexamethylmelamine HMM Hycamtin Hydrea Hydrocort Acetate Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone sodium phosphate Hydrocortisone sodium succinate Hydrocortone phosphate Hydroxyurea Ibritumomab Ibritumomab Tiuxetan IDAMYCIN Idarubicin IFEX IFN alpha Ifosfamide IL 11 IL 2 Imatinib mesylate Imidazole Carboxamide Interferon alfa Interferon Alfa 2b PEG conjugate Interleukin 2 t Interleukin 11 INTRON A interferon alfa 2b IRESSA Irinotecan Isotretinoin Kidrolase Lanacort L asparaginase LCR Lenalidomide Letrozole Leucovorin Leukeran Leukine Leuprolide Leurocristine Leustatin Liposomal Ara C Liquid Pred Lomustine L PAM L Sarcolysin Lupron LUPRON DEPOT Matulane Maxidex Mechlorethamine Mechlorethamine Hydrochloride Medralone MEDROL Megace Megestrol Megestrol Acetate Melphalan Mercaptopurine Mesna Mesnex Methotrexate Methotrexate Sodium Methylprednisolone Meticorten Mitomycin Mitomycin C Mitoxantrone M Prednisol MTC MTX Mustargen Mustine Mutamycin Myleran Mylocel Mylotarg NAVELBINE Nelarabine Neosar Neulasta Neumega NEUPOGEN NEXAVAR Nilandron Nilutamide NIPENT Nitrogen Mustard Novaldex Novantrone Octreotide Octreotide acetate Oncospar Oncovin Ontak Onxal Oprevelkin Orapred Orasone Oxaliplatin Paclitaxel Paclitaxel Protein bound Pamidronate Panretin Paraplatin Pediapred PEG Interferon Pegaspargase Pegfilgrastim PEG INTRON PEG L asparaginase PEMETREXED Pentostatin Phenylalanine Mustard Platinol Platinol AQ Prednisolone Prednisone Prelone Procarbazine PROCRIT Proleukin Prolifeprospan 20 with Carmustine implant PURINETHOL Raloxifene REVLIMID Rheumatrex Rituxan Rituximab ROFERON A interferon alfa 2a Rubex Rubidomycin hydrochloride SANDOSTATIN Sandostatin LAR Sargramostim Solu Cortef Solu Medrol Sorafenib STI 571 Streptozocin SU11248 Sunitinib SUTENT Tamoxifen TARCEVA Targretin TAXOL TAXOTERE TEMODAR Temozolomide Teniposide TESPA Thalidomide THALOMID TheraCys Thioguanine THIOGUANINE TABLOID Thiophosphoamide Thioplex Thiotepa TICE Toposar Topotecan Toremifene Tositumomab Trastuzumab Tretinoin Trexall Trisenox TSPA VCR Velban VELCADE VePesid Vesanoid Viadur Vidaza Vinblastine Vinblastine Sulfate Vincasar Pfs Vincristine Vinorelbine Vinorelbine tartrate VLB VM 26 VP 16 Vumon XELODA Zanosar ZEVALIN Zinecard ZOLADEX Zolcdronic acid and ZOMETA .

The present invention also provides a method of synthesizing compounds of formula I as depicted in Scheme 1 below.

Compounds of formula I may be synthesized starting from an optionally substituted aniline A wherein Ris any substitutent as is described herein which results in a stable substituted aniline compound A and q is 0 5.

In step 1 S 1 under standard hydrazine formation conditions optionally substituted aniline A is converted to optionally substituted phenyl hydrazine B .

In step 2 S 2 reaction of compound B with compound C wherein Z is independently hydrogen or halo Cl Br I F generates an optionally substituted pyridazin 3 one derivative D .

Reaction of compound D in step 3 S 3 with different nucleophiles can generate a wide variety of compounds with different substitutions and or substitution patterns for example compounds E F and or G as depicted above . In certain embodiments Rand R are independently optionally substituted aliphaticoxy aliphaticthioxy aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino isocyano amino azido hydrazino hydroxy thio halo aryloxy arylthioxy arylamino heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino or heteroarylthiooxy.

In certain embodiments compound D is treated with a mono or di substituted aliphaticamine to form compounds E and or F and or G wherein Rand Rare independently N R and each instance of Ris independently hydrogen or optionally substituted aliphatic heteroaliphatic aryl heteroaryl or two Rgroups form an optionally substituted 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl or heterocyclic ring.

In certain embodiments compound D is treated with an optionally substituted hydroxy group to form compounds E and or F and or G wherein Rand Rare independently O R and each instance of Ris independently hydrogen or optionally substituted aliphatic heteroaliphatic aryl heteroaryl or two Rgroups form an optionally substituted 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl or heterocyclic ring.

In certain embodiments compound D is treated with an optionally substituted thio group to form compounds E and or F and or G wherein Rand Rare independently S R and each instance of Ris independently hydrogen or optionally substituted aliphatic heteroaliphatic aryl heteroaryl or two Rgroups form an optionally substituted 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl or heterocyclic ring.

In certain embodiments compound D is treated with a Br nstead acid such as hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide hydrogen bromide hydrogen fluoride nitric acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid and the like or a halogenating reagent such as NBS Br NCS and the like to form compounds D and or E and or F wherein Rand Rare independently hydrogen bromo iodo fluoro NO SO OP O OH and the like.

Alternatively compounds of formula I can be synthesized according to the method as depicted in Scheme 2 below.

In step 4 S 4 under suitable cyclization conditions optionally substituted phenyl hydrazine B reacts with a compound of formula H wherein Z is independently hydrogen or halo to generate an optionally substituted pyridazine 3 6 dionepyridazin 3 one derivative J . Treatment of compound J under suitable reducing conditions or alkylation conditions in step 5 S 5 generates optionally substituted pyridazin 3 one derivative K wherein Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted aliphatic respectively. Reaction of compound K in step 6 S 6 with different nucleophiles as described in certain embodiments for step 3 S 3 above can generate a wide variety of compounds with different substitutions and or substitution patterns for example compounds L M and or N as depicted below .

wherein each instance of R R and Ris independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo or Rand Rare joined to form a 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted carbocyclic optionally substituted heterocyclic optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and Ris as defined above 

each instance of Rand Ris independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde hydrazino optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo or Rand Rare joined to form an 5 or 6 membered optionally substituted heterocyclic or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and

J and J together form an oxo O thiooxo S or imino NR group wherein Ris hydrogen optionally substituted hydroxy optionally substituted amino optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted sulfonyl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted acyl optionally substituted aliphatic or optionally substituted heteroaliphatic or each instance of J and J is independently hydrogen optionally substituted aliphatic or optionally substituted heteroaliphatic.

In certain embodiments the compound 5 nitro furan 2 carboxylic acid 4 chloro phenyl amide SKI 98698 as depicted below is specifically excluded from compounds of formula II 

each W is independently N C H or C R wherein each instance of Ris independently aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo 

In certain embodiments Ris hydrogen. In certain embodiments Ris alkyl. In certain embodiments Ris Calkyl.

In certain embodiments compounds of formula II have the structural formula IIa. Such compounds of formula IIa are exemplified in Table 4 

each instance of R R R R and R is independently hydrogen aliphatic heteroaliphatic hydroxy thio amino heterocyclic aryl heteroaryl acyl amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro halo optionally substituted with oxo thiooxo imino aliphatic carbocyclic hydroxy aliphaticoxy aryloxy thio aliphaticthioxy arylthioxy heteroaliphatic heterocyclic aryl arylaliphatic heteroaryl heteroarylaliphatic acyl acyloxy amido imido sulfinyl sulfonyl amino aliphaticamino dialiphaticamino trialiphaticamino arylamino diarylamino carboxaldehyde cyano isocyano azido hydrazino nitro or halo or Rand Rare joined to form a 5 to 6 membered optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl ring and R R and Rare as defined above and

In certain embodiments compounds of formula II have the structural formula IIe. Such compounds of formula IIe are exemplified in Table 5 

The present invention is also directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula II as defined herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug isomer or tautomer thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

The present invention is also directed to methods of treating a proliferative disease in a subject by administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug isomer or tautomer thereof.

In certain embodiments the proliferative disease is neoplasia. Neoplasia as used herein refers to the abnormal growth of tissue in a subject and may be either benign or malignant. In certain embodiments the neoplasia is a tumor. In certain embodiments the neoplasia is cancer. In certain embodiments the cancer is renal cancer bladder cancer liver cancer testicular cancer ovarian cancer colorectal cancer prostate cancer pancreatic cancer lung cancer breast cancer brain cancer bone cancer stomach cancer oral cancer skin cancer blood cancer or leukemia. In certain embodiments the cancer is non Hodgkin s lymphoma Wilms tumor lymphomas rhabdomyosarcoma arising from muscle retinoblastoma osteosarcoma or Ewing s sarcoma. In certain embodiments the cancer is lung cancer. In certain embodiments the lung cancer is human non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma squamous cell carcinoma and large cell carcinoma . In certain embodiments the cancer is associated with EGFR and or KRAS mutations.

In certain embodiments compounds of formula II are effective against a cancer or a tumor. In certain embodiments compounds of formula II are effective against a cancer or a tumor associated with EGFR and or KRAS mutations. In certain embodiments compounds of formula II are effective against lung cancer or a lung tumor associated with EGFR and or KRAS mutations.

The present invention is also directed to kits comprising at least one compound of formula II or pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs isomers or tautomers thereof. A kit of the invention can be particularly useful if it provides additional solvents buffers or excipients for pre mixing before administration or if it provides a means for oral or parental administration e.g. syringes or graduated measurement cups . A kit of the invention can also be particularly useful if it contains additional chemotherapeutic agents as described herein for use in combination with one or more compounds of formula II .

In certain embodiments a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula II is between about 0.01 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day. In certain embodiments a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula II is at least 0.01 mg kg day 0.05 mg kg day 0.10 mg kg day 1.0 mg kg day 5.0 mg kg day 10 mg kg day 15 mg kg day 20 mg kg day 30 mg kg day 40 mg kg day 50 mg kg day 60 mg kg day 70 mg kg day 80 mg kg day 90 mg kg day or 100 mg kg day.

The present invention will be more specifically illustrated by the following examples. However it should be understood that the present invention is not limited by these examples in any manner.

There are a variety of well documented human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines that have been used in the cell based screens. Characteristics of these cell lines are shown in Table 6. Some of these cell lines have gain of function mutations in either exon 2 of KRAS H2030 or in exons 18 21 of the EGFR H1650 H1975 and H3255 . The cell lines H11 18 and H3255 express EGFR with an L858R mutation and growth of these cells is inhibited by erlotinib at much lower concentrations than is required to attenuate growth in cells with wild type EGFR Table 6 . In H1650 there is a deletion of four amino acids E746 A750 in the EGFR. Growth of this cell line is less sensitive to erlotinib than H11 18 and H3255. This may be due to the presence of additional mutations in proteins function downstream of the EGFR. Only the L858R mutation is present in the H1975 cell line. However we sequenced exons 18 24 of EGFR in 8 adenocarcinoma cell lines and identified a second point mutation in the kinase domain of the EGFR. This C to T change at position 2369 in exon 20 results in a T790M substitution in the receptor and is believed to confer resistance to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib and gefitinib. Indeed growth of the H1975 cell line is more resistant to erlotinib than the cell lines carrying mutant KRAS such as H358 and H2030 Table 6 . Introduction of double stranded siRNA specific for the EGFR deletion mutant or the L858R mutant into H1650 or H1975 and H3255 induced apoptosis suggesting that these lung adenocarcinoma cell lines require continuous expression of the EGFR oncogene for survival.

All of the adenocarcinoma cell lines with EGFR mutations shown in Table 6 express wild type KRAS. Conversely the lines with wild type EGFR in Table 6 carry a mutation in exon 2 of KRAS resulting in a missense amino acid substitution in codons 12 or 13. In H358 and H2030 this exon 2 mutation results in a G12C amino acid change in KRAS. In H1734 there is a G13C substitution in KRAS. introduction of a G12C KRAS allele specific siRNA into the H2030 cell line results in growth arrest suggesting that this cell line is dependent on expression of mutant KRAS for growth. All adenocarcinoma cell lines with mutant KRAS in Table 6 are resistant to erlotinib and express wild type EGFR.

Cell cycle analysis. For cell cycle analysis cells were plated at a density of 500 000 cells per well in 6 well plates. Attached cells were treated with drugs for 24 h. Cells were then collected washed with PBS and fixed in 70 ethanol for 1 h. For FACS analysis fixed cells were washed with cold PBS resuspended in PBS containing 200 g mL propidium iodide and 0.1 sodium citrate. Flow cytometry was performed on a Becton Dickinson FACSCalibur flow cytometer and data the processed using FlowJo software.

Caspase 3 7 enzyme activity assay. Apoptosis was determined by measuring the enzymatic activity of caspase 3 7 in cell homogenates. Cells were plated at a density of 10 000 cells per well in 96 well plates and treated immediately with drugs for 24 72 h. Caspase 3 7 activity will be determined in cell extracts using Z DEVD R110 rhodamine 110 conjugated to the caspase substrate Z DEVD as substrate Promega . The fluorescence of the cleaved substrate was measured using a micro titer fluorescence plate reader Ex 499 nm Em 521 nm .

 H thymidine incorporation assay. Cells were seeded in 12 well plates at a density of 100 000 cells well and treated with inhibitors for 24 hours. H3 thymidine 3 Ci mL was then added for 3 hours. Cells were washed twice with PBS fixed with cold 10 TCA in PBS for 30 min then lysed with 0.5 NaOH 0.5 SDS. DNA was scraped from the wells and the amount of H3 thymidine incorporated determined by liquid scintillation counting.

Growing Maintaining Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Cell Line. Non Small Cell Lung Cancer cell lines are grown and maintained in Corning 175 cmflasks in RPMI 1640 media supplemented with 10 FBS 1 antibiotic solution 1 additional glutamine and pyruvate. These cells have a doubling time of 1 2 days. All cell types are adherent and grow in colonies. The cells should be kept at a density between 50 000 cells mL 500 000 cells mL to provide for optimum growth and adequate nutrition. The cell line should be maintained at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere with 5 CO2 in a sterile cell culture incubator.

Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Proliferation Assay. To perform the assay the Non Small Cell Lung Cancer lines are diluted in media and plated into 384 well microplates at a final density of 250 cells in 45 L. To ensure consistency and minimal pipetting error the cells are plated using the Multidrop 384 with the following settings Rocker Switch set at 384 Volume 45 and Column 24.

Low Controls for this assay are made by treating Non Small Cell Lung Cancer cells with 5 ul of staurosporine at 250 uM in 10 DMSO and 1 SDS. Final concentration in this assay is 25 uM staurosporine in 1 DMSO and 0.1 SDS. 

High Controls for this assay are made by treating Non Small Cell Lung Cancer cells with 5 ul of 10 DMSO. Final concentration in this assay is 1 DMSO .

The remaining wells of the 384 microplate may be treated with different compounds depending on the study. Important Note All compounds for testing in this assay should be done at the final concentration of 1 DMSO.

After addition the cells are placed in cell culture incubator at 37 C. for 48 hours for complete treatment.

After drug treatment cytotoxicity is measured by Alamar Blue reduction. 5 L of Alamar Blue is added to the 384 microplates using the Flexdrop.

The final step in the assay is to measure the amount of Alamar Blue reduction. The cells are placed in the Wallac 1420 Victor V Plate Reader I and with the following program DS Alamar Blue Prompt Fluo 8 . The Alamar Blue fluorescence is measured at an excitation of 530 nm and emission of 590 nm.

For the NSCLC project the cell based assay was screened against a small molecule library of approximately 200 000 compounds. The compound library is stored in our automated robotic freezer Biophile at 20 C. in 100 DMSO. Compound freeze and thaw cycles are kept to a minimum. Compounds for use are diluted into the appropriate concentration and plated into 384 well microplates using our custom built low volume 384 well head tool TPS 384 Apricot Designs Inc. CA USA . This assay was performed on a fully automated linear track robotic platform CRS F3 Robot System Thermo Electron Corp. Ontario Canada utilizing several integrated peripherals for plate handling liquid dispensing and readout detection. First non small cell lung cancer cell lines are dispensed into 384 well microplates Corning 3712 Tissue Culture Treated Plate Corning N.Y. USA with 5 L of test compounds at 100 uM in 10 DMSO for screening studies or 1 mM in 10 DMSO to 50 nM in 10 DMSO for dose response studies. The microplates are then placed at 37 C. for 48 hours to complete treatment of cells with compounds. Next 5 ul of alamar blue was added using a liquid dispenser FlexDrop Precision Dispenser Perkin Elmer Mass. USA and incubated for 48 hours at 37 C. The alamar blue prompt fluorescence was measured on Victor V VictorV Perkin Elmer Mass. USA and output data files were loaded into ORIS Oncology Research Informatics System MSKCC NY USA a screening data acquisition and analysis platform.

A high throughput screening was performed using four established non small cell lung cancer cell lines H1650 H1975 H2030 H3255 against a chemical library of 200 000 small molecules. Description of the assays is described herein. Several hits were identified inhibiting one or more cell line with the most potent one being 4 5 dichloro 2 m tolyl 2H pyridazin 3 one SKI 104122 .

A substructure search was then performed against the SKI library and identified 115 derivatives of SKI 104122. Further analysis of the biological data for these derivatives reveals a coherent structure activity relationship for both active and inactive compounds with only 22 compounds identified as active during primary screening. Summary of the data is shown in Table 9. Data is expressed as percentage inhibition in the cell based assay screening concentration of 10 M compound in 1 DMSO v v .

Based on the obtained SAR results from primary screening and the observed affinities see Example 1 the feasibility of identifying the molecular target for SKI 104122 was investigated. To achieve this an SAR study was undertaken to identify potential sites on the molecule for linker addition without compromising biological activity. The linker will then be attached to sepharose beads generating an affinity chromatography column to be used for identifying molecular target.

Preparation of 1 1E But 1 en 1 yl 3 nitrobenzene 3 . n BuLi 2.5M hexanes 7.7 mL 19.46 mmol was added drop wise to a 78 C. cooled suspension of n propyl triphenylphosphonium bromide 2 7.5 g 19.46 mmol in THF 50 mL and the reaction was warmed to room temperature over 1 h and cooled to 78 C. A solution of 3 nitrobenzaldehyde 1 2.94 g 19.46 mmol in THF 10.0 mL was then added and the reaction mixture was gradually warmed to room temperature. After 15 h saturated NHCl solution was added and diluted with water 25 mL . The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 25 mL . The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography 10 EtOAc hexanes to afford 3 2.5 g 66 as an oil. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.09 t J 6.0 Hz 3H 2.25 2.42 m 2H 5.75 5.90 m 1H 6.39 6.49 m 1H 7.40 7.64 m 2H 7.95 m 2H .

Preparation of 3 n butyl phenylamine 4 . A solution of 3 2.5 g 14.11 mmol in methanol 20 mL was added to a slurry of 10 Pd C 300 mg in ethyl acetate 1 mL and stirred under hydrogen atmosphere for 5 h. The catalyst was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to afford 4 2.0 g 96 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.90 t J 6.0 Hz 3H 1.25 1.42 m 2H 1.50 1.65 m 2H 2.52 t J 6.0 Hz 2H J 6.0 Hz 3.59 br s 2H 6.45 6.62 m 3H 7.05 t J 6.0 Hz 1H .

Preparation of 2 3 butylphenyl 4 5 dichloropyridazin 3 2H one 7a . A solution of NaNO 510 mg 7.39 mmol in water 2 mL was slowly added to a cooled 15 C. solution of 4 1.0 g 7.30 mmol in Conc. HCl 5 mL and water 5 mL . The reaction was warmed to 0 C. and slowly added to a vigorously stirred 0 C. cooled solution of SnCl.2HO 3.34 g in con. HCl 15 mL . After 3 h of stirring at 0 C. crude 3 hydrazinophenyl hydrochloride 5 300 mg was collected by filtration and dried under vacuum. To a 90 C. stirred solution of crude 3 hydrazinophenyl hydrochloride 5 50 mg 0.21 mmol in water 3 mL was added mucochloric acid 6 35 mg 0.21 mmol and stirred for 3 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the solid crystals were collected by filtration washed with water 2 5 mL dried under high vacuum at 40 C. to obtain 7a 28.0 mg 42 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.92 t 3H J 6.0 Hz 1.30 1.42 m 2H 1.52 1.70 m 2H 2.67 t 2H J 6.0 Hz 7.20 7.28 m 1H 7.30 7.45 m 3H 7.92 s 1H ESI MS m z. 297.4 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 5 dichloro 2 3 ethylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 7b was synthesized from 3 ethylaniline and mucochloric acid as described for 7a. Yield 30 mg 53 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.27 t J 6.0 Hz 3H 2.70 dd J 15.0 Hz 6.0 Hz 2H 7.13 7.19 m 1H 7.28 7.43 m 3H 7.95 s 1H ESI MS m z. 269.0 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 5 dichloro 2 3 methoxyphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 7c was synthesized from 3 methoxyaniline and mucochloric acid as described for 7a. Yield 35 mg 62 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3.86 s 3H 6.96 7.02 m 1H 7.11 7.19 m 2H 7.36 7.45 m 1H 7.94 s 1H ESI MS m z. 271.1 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 5 dichloro 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9a Mucochloric acid 6 6.91 g 40.92 mmol was added to a 100 C. solution of 3 methylphenylhydrazine 8a 5.0 g 40.92 mmol in 12 aqueous HCl water 34 mL . After 5 h the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the solid crystals were collected by filtration washed with water 2 50 mL and dried under high vacuum at 40 C. to obtain 9a as light yellow solid 10.35 g 99 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.41 s 3H 7.26 s 1H 7.36 7.40 m 3H 7.90 s 1H ESI MS m z. 255.4 M 1 .

The following compounds were synthesized as described above for 9a using mucochloric acid and corresponding hydrazine.

4 5 Dichloro 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9b Yield 64 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.60 7.75 m 2H 7.80 7.86 m 1H 7.93 s 1H 7.97 s 1H ESI MS m z. 309.1 M 1 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 2 3 dimethylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9c Yield 87 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.02 s 3H 2.35 s 3H 7.07 7.09 m 1H 7.20 7.29 m 2H 7.91 s 1H ESI MS m z. 269.1 M 1 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9d Yield 90 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.31 s 3H 2.34 s 3H 7.22 7.32 m 3H 7.90 s 1H ESI MS m z. 269.0 M 1 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 3 5 dimethylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9e Yield 86 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.37 s 6H 7.07 s 1H 7.15 s 2H 7.90 s 1H ESI MS m z. 269.4 M 1 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 2 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9f Yield 85 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.17 s 3H 7.22 7.26 m 1H 7.31 7.42 m 3H 7.91 s 1H ESI MS m z. 255.1 M 1 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 4 bromo 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9 g Yield 70 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.45 s 3H 7.26 7.31 m 1H 7.41 7.48 m 1H 7.57 d 1H J 6.0 Hz 7.92 s 1H ESI MS m z. 333.1 M 1 and 335.1 M 2 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 4 chloro 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9h Yield 71 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.43 s 3H 7.29 7.38 m 1H 7.44 7.59 m 2H 7.94 s 1H ESI MS m z. 291.0 M 3 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 2 3 dihydro 1H inden 5yl pyridazin 3 2H one 9i Yield 70 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.03 2.17 m 2H 2.92 2.98 m 4H 7.26 7.37 m 3H 7.92 s 1H ESI MS m z. 281.1 M 1 and 283.4 M 3 

4 5 Dichloro 2 2 methyl 1 3 benzothiazol 6 yl pyridazin 3 2H one 9j Yield 15 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.96 s 3H 7.59 7.69 m 1H 7.95 s 1H 8.08 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 8.12 s 1H ESI MS m z. 312.4 M 1 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 2 3 dihydro 1 4 benzodioxin 6yl 2H pyridazin 3 2H one 9k Yield 75 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 4.26 s 4H 6.93 6.98 m 1H 7.02 7.12 m 2H 7.88 s 1H ESI MS m z. 299.3 M 1 .

2 Benzyl 4 5 dichloropyridazin 3 2H one 91 Yield 78 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 5.32 s 2H 7.28 7.38 m 3H 7.40 7.46 m 2H 7.86 s 1H ESI MS m z. 255.1 M 1 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 3 chloro 4 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 9m Yield 75 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.44 s 3H 7.32 7.35 m 1H 7.40 7.44 m 1H 7.61 s 1H 7.93 s 1H ESI MS m z. 298.8 M 1 .

4 5 Dichloro 2 pyridine 2 ylpyridazin 3 2H one 9n Yield 75 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.40 7.45 m 1H 7.57 7.70 m 1H 7.88 7.94 m 1H 7.99 s 1H 8.67 8.69 m 1H ESI MS m z. 242.1 WO.

The following compounds were synthesized as described for 9a using mucobromic acid and corresponding hydrazine.

4 5 Dibromo 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 12a Yield 75 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.36 s 3H 7.23 7.28 s 1H 7.33 7.37 m 3H 7.95 s 1H ESI MS m z. 343.0 M 1 .

4 5 Dibromo 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 12b Yield 70 . HNMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.59 7.67 m 2H 7.84 8.01 m 3H ESI MS m z. 397.0 M 1 .

4 5 Dibromo 2 pyridine 2 ylpyridazin 3 2H one 12c Yield 75 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.41 7.46 m 1H 7.55 7.83 m 1H 7.87 7.95 m 1H 8.00 s 1H 8.65 8.67 m 1H ESI MS m z. 330.1 M 1 .

4 5 Dibromo 2 3 methoxyphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 12d Yield 48 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3.83 s 3H 6.95 6.99 m 1H 7.11 7.16 m 2H 7.28 7.43 m 1H 7.93 s 1H ESI MS m z. 358.9 M 1 .

4 5 Dibromo 2 3 1 methoxy ethoxyphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 12e Yield 65 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3.51 s 3H 3.74 3.82 m 2H 4.13 4.19 m 2H 6.98 7.02 m 1H 7.15 7.18 m 2H 7.34 7.43 m 1H 7.92 s 1H ESI MS m z. 403.1 M 1 .

Preparation of 5 Chloro 4 diethylamino 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 14 and 4 Chloro 5 diethylamino 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 15a . A mixture of 9a 250 mg 0.95 mmol and N N diethylamine 143 mg 1.95 mmol in dioxane 3 mL was heated at 100 C. for 10 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The products were separated by flash silica gel column chromatography.

5 Chloro 4 diethylamino 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 14 Oil 30.0 mg R 0.45 25 EtOAc hexaness H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.22 t J 6.0 Hz 6H 2.40 s 3H 3.50 q J 6.0 Hz 4H 7.17 7.20 m 1H 7.26 7.37 m 3H 7.72 s 1H . ESI MS m z. 292.3 M 1 .

4 Chloro 5 diethylamino 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 15a Solid 120.0 mg R 0.35 25 EtOAc hexaness H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.31 t J 6.0 Hz 6H 2.39 s 3H 3.55 q J 6.0 Hz 4H 7.15 7.18 m 1H 7.28 7.40 m 3H 7.70 s 1H ESI MS m z. 292.4 M 1 .

Preparation of 5 Azido 4 chloro 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 15b . This compound was prepared as described above for 15a from 9a and sodium azide using ethanol 2 mL and water 2 mL . Yield 55 . HNMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.41 s 3H 7.18 7.26 m 1H 7.32 7.41 m 3H 7.74 s 1H ESI MS m z. 235.9 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 Chloro 5 ethoxy 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 15c . This compound was prepared as described above for 15a from 9a and ethanol 5 mL . Yield 75 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.56 t J 6.0 Hz 6H 2.42 s 3H 4.40 q J 6.0 Hz 4H 7.20 7.29 m 1H 7.33 7.40 m 3H 7.92 s 1H ESI MS m z. 265.0 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 5 Diiodo 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 16 and 5 iodo 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 17 . A mixture of 9a 700 mg 2.74 mmol and 57 aqueous HI 10 mL was heated at 100 C. After 12 h the reaction was cooled diluted with water 30 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 25 mL . The organic extracts were washed with water 2 20 mL dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The pure products were separated on silica gel column using 20 ethyl acetate hexanes.

4 5 Iodo 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 16 200.0 mg R 0.40 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.40 s 3H 7.17 7.26 m 1H 7.32 7.37 m 3H 7.95 s 1H ESI MS m z. 439.1 M 1 .

5 Iodo 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one 17 75.0 mg R 0.20 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.41 s 3H 7.09 7.26 m 1H 7.33 7.38 7.60 s 1H 8.04 s 1H . ESI MS m z. 313.1 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 5 Dichloro 1 3 methylphenyl 1 2 dihydropyridazin 3 6 dione 19a . 3 4 Dichloromaleic anhydride 18a 2.0 g 12.27 mmol was added to a solution 3 methylphenylhydrazine 5 1.5 g 12.27 mmol in 20 aqueous HCl 12 mL at 100 C. and stirred for 3 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with water 15 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined extracts was dried and concentrated in vacuo to afford a residue that was purified on silica gel column 20 EtOAc hexanes to afford 19a 1.35 g 40 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO D 2.36 s 3H 7.22 7.25 m 1H 7.33 7.41 m 3H ESI MS m z. 271.2 M F1 .

Preparation of 4 5 Dichloro 6 methoxy 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 6 dione 20a . A mixture of 19a 1.5 g 5.5 mmol dimethyl sulfate 1.6 g 6.9 mmol and KCO 2.28 g 16.5 mmol in acetone 20 mL was stirred at reflux for 12 h. The reaction was cooled and the solids were filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated and dissolved in ethyl acetate 30 mL washed with water 2 15 mL dried and concentrated under vacuum. The crude compound was purified on silica gel column using 25 ethyl acetate hexanes to afford 20a 1.8 g 76 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.24 s 3H 3.96 s 3H 7.17 7.28 m 1H 7.34 7.53 m 3H ESI MS m z. 285.3 M 1 .

6 Methoxy 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 6 dione 20b This compound was prepared as described for 20a using 19b Data for 19b Yield 73 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO Ds 2.35 s 3H 6.99 7.03 m 1H 7.19 d 2H J 6.0 Hz 7.28 7.42 m 3H 11.32 s 1H ESI MS m z. 203.4 M 1 1 . Data for 20b Yield 82 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 2.43 s 3H 3.90 s 3H 7.17 7.27 m 2H 7.35 7.42 m 2H ESI MS m z. 217.1 M 1 .

Preparation of tert Butyl 3 4 5 dichloro 1 3 methylphenyl 6 oxo 1 6 dihydropyridazin 3 yl oxypropylcarbamate 21 A mixture of 19a 1.5 g 5.5 mmol tert butyl 3 bromopropylcarbamate 1.6 g 6.9 mmol and KCO 2.28 g 16.5 mmol in acetone 20 mL was refluxed for 12 h. The reaction was cooled and the solids were filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated and dissolved in ethyl acetate 30 mL washed with water 2 15 mL dried and concentrated in vacuo. The crude compound was purified on silica gel column using 25 EtOAc hexanes to afford 21 1.8 g 76 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.43 s 9H 1.97 2.05 m 2H 2.41 s 3H 3.30 3.36 m 2H 4.29 5.32 m 2H 4.82 bs 1H 7.19 7.42 m 4H ESI MS m z. 428.3 M 1 .

Preparation of 6 3 Aminopropoxy 4 5 dichloro 2 3 methylphenyl pyridazin 3 2H one hydrochloride 22 To a solution of 21 1.8 g 4.20 mmol was added 4 N HCl in dioxane 5.25 mL and stirred at room temperature. After 15 h the solid was filtered and washed with hexanes 2 25 mL and dried in vacuo to afford 22 1.32 g 86 as an off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO D 1.99 2.10 m 2H 2.37 s 3H 2.85 2.95 2H 4.20 4.36 m 2H 7.15 7.27 m 1H 7.39 7.59 m 3H 8.03 br s 3H ESI MS m z. 328.4 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 3 4 5 Dichloro 1 3 methylphenyl 6 oxo 1 6 dihydropyridazin 3 yl oxypropyl amino 4 oxobutanoic acid 23 A mixture of 21 1.30 g 3.57 mmol and succinic anhydride 357 mg 3.57 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL and pyridine 1.5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The mixture was concentrated and re dissolved in ethyl acetate 20 mL washed with 1 N HCl 2 5 mL and with water 2 10 mL . The organic solution was dried over NaSOand concentrated and the obtained syrup was stirred with 50 hexanes CHCl. The solid was collected by filtration and dried at 40 C. to afford 23 1.4 g 91 as off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO D 1.84 1.90 m 2H 2.26 2.30 m 2H 2.37 2.43 m 5H 3.18 m 2H 4.20 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 7.24 7.26 m 1H 7.30 7.41 m 3H 7.90 7.96 m 1H 12.12 s 1H ESI MS m z. 428.3 M 1 .

Preparation of tert Butyl 3 3 nitrophenoxy propylcarbamate 25 . A mixture of 3 nitrophenol 24 7.0 g 50.3 mmol tert butyl 3 bromopropylcarbamate 14.35 g 60.3 mmol and KCO 13.90 g 100.63 mmol in acetone 150 mL was stirred at reflux for 12 h. The reaction was cooled and the solids were filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated dissolved in EtOAc 250 mL washed with water 2 15 mL dried and concentrated in vacuo to afford 25 14.25 g 95 that was used without further purification. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.46 s 9H 1.99 2.07 m 2H 3.26 3.47 m 2H 4.10 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 4.84 bs 1H 7.20 7.24 7.43 t J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.79 7.83 m 1H ESI MS m z. 297.3 M 1 .

Preparation of 3 3 Nitrophenoxy propan 1 amine hydrochloride 26 . To a solution of 25 14.25 g 47.80 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL was added 4 N HCl in dioxane 60 mL and stirred at room temperature. After 7 h the reaction was diluted with hexanes 200 mL . The solid was filtered washed with hexanes 2 25 mL and dried under vacuum to afford 26 11.0 g 98 as off white solid. ESI MS m z. 197.3 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 3 3 Nitrophenoxy propyl amino 4 oxobutanoic acid 27 . A mixture of 26 11.0 g 47.11 mmol and succinic anhydride 4.71 g 47.11 mmol in dichloromethane 75 mL and pyridine 18.63 g 235.5 mmol was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The mixture was concentrated re dissolved in ethyl acetate 150 mL and washed with 2 N HCl 2 50 mL . The precipitated solid product was collected by filtration and the filtrate was dried and concentrated to afford crude product. The combined solid was washed with 50 EtOAc hexanes 25 mL and dried under vacuum to afford 27 13.5 g 96 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO D 1.80 1.92 m 2H 2.27 2.31 m 2H 2.36 2.43 m 2H 3.19 m 2H 4.09 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 7.38 7.41 m 1H 7.54 t J 6.0 Hz 3H 7.67 s 1H 7.78 7.81 m 1H 7.94 t J 6.0 Hz 1H ESI MS m z. 297.3 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 3 3 Aminophenoxy propyl amino 4 oxobutanoic acid 28 . To a slurry of 10 Pd C 1.75 g in EtOAc 400 mL was added 27 13.5 g 45.5 mmol and stirred under hydrogen atmosphere 30 Psi . After 5 h the catalyst was filtered off and filtrate was concentrated to afford 28 11.75 96 that was used for next reaction without further purification. ESI MS m z. 267.4 M H .

Preparation of tert Butyl 3 3 4 5 dibromo 6 oxopyridazin 1 6H yl phenoxy propylcarbamate 29 . A solution of NaNO 1.29 g 18.77 mmol in water 3 mL was slowly added to a cooled 0 C. solution of 28 5.0 g 18.77 mmol in conc. HCl 15 mL and water 5 mL . After 30 min the reaction mixture was added to cooled 0 C. slurry of SnCl.2HO 10.72 g 47.5 mmol in conc. HCl 10 mL with vigorous stirring. The resulting mixture was stirred for 3 h at 0 C. and crude 4 3 3 hydrazinophenoxy propyl amino4 oxobutanoic acid hydrochloride was collected by filtration and dried under vacuum 6.5 g . To a stirred solution of the crude acid 6.5 g 18.35 mmol in water 10 mL at 90 C. was added mucobromic acid 4.73 g 18.35 mmol . After 3 h the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature basified with 1 N NaOH pH 6.0 and treated with Boc O 5.0 g 22.9 mmol for overnight at room temperature. The reaction was extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL and organic solution was washed with water 2 25 mL and dried over NaSOand concentrated under vacuum. The obtained residue was purified on silica gel using 25 EtOAc hexanes to afford 29 1.8 g 19.0 3 steps . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.46 s 3H 1.94 2.06 m 2H 3.31 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 4.04 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 4.75 br s 1H 6.94 6.98 m 1H 7.11 7.17 m 2H 7.35 7.42 m 1H 7.93 s 1H ESI MS m z 502.1 M 1 .

Preparation of 2 3 3 Aminopropoxy phenyl 4 5 dibromopyridazin 3 2H one hydrochloride 30 . To a solution of 29 1.75 g 3.4 mmol in dichloromethane 30 mL was added 4 N HCl in dioxane 5 mL and stirred at room temperature. After 7 h the reaction was diluted with hexanes 20 mL . The solid was filtered washed with hexanes 2 15 mL and dried under vacuum to afford 30 1.40 g 94 as off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.96 2.10 m 2H 2.94 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 4.10 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 7.05 7.13 m 2H 7.43 t J 6.0 Hz 1H 8.26 s 1H ESI MS m z 402.1 M 1 .

Preparation of 4 3 3 4 5 Dibromo 6 oxopyridazin 6H yl phenoxy propylamino 4 oxobutanoic acid 31 A mixture of 30 1.30 g 2.95 mmol and succinic anhydride 310.0 mg 3.10 mmol in dichloromethane 15 mL and pyridine 3.5 mL was stirred at room temperature for 15 h. The mixture was concentrated re dissolved in EtOAc 30 mL and washed with 1 N HCl 3 10 mL and then with water 2 15 mL . The organic solution was dried NaSO and concentrated to afford crude product. The obtained solid was stirred with 50 EtOAC hexanes 10 mL collected by filtration and dried under vacuum to afford 31 1.2 g 87 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO Ds 1.81 1.86 m 2H 2.30 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 2.4 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 3.19 m 2H 4.00 m 2H 7.01 7.03 m 1H 7.07 7.10 m 2H 7.40 t J 3.0 Hz 1H 7.93 t J 3.0 Hz 1H 8.26 s 1H 12.05 br s 1H ESI MS m z. 502.3 M 1 .

We undertook a SAR study to identify potential sites on the compound SKI 104122 for linker addition without compromising biological activity. Exemplary syntheses of compounds screened are detailed above in Example 2. The screening results of these compounds are summarized in Tables 10 11 and 13 below. Compounds were tested in dose response studies from 10 M to 5 nM against several non small cell lung cancer lines H358 H827 H1118 H1650 H1734 H1975 H2030 and H3255 and were also studied in a 72 hour cytotoxicity assay against the NHBE and WI 38 cell lines. Additionally Tables 12 and 14 summarize similar screenings of gefitinib IRESSA Astra Zeneca and erlotinib TARCEVA OSI Pharmaceuticals Genentech .

In A E to A E ICcurves are shown for all experiments performed on SKI 104122 including primary HTS and resynthesis. depict ICcurves for active pyridazinone compounds against the H3255 cell line.

We have performed high throughput screening campaigns using four established non small cell lung cancer cell lines H1650 H1975 H2030 H3255 against a chemical library of 200 000 small molecules. Description of the assays is described herein. We have identified several hits inhibiting one or more cell line with the most potent one being 5 nitro furan 2 carboxylic acid 4 chloro phenyl amide SKI 98698 . We then performed a substructure search against the library and identified 51 close derivatives of SKI 98698 Table 15 . Further analysis of the biological data for these derivatives reveals a coherent structure activity relationship for both active and inactive compounds with only 8 compounds identified as active during primary screening Table 16 . Data is expressed as percentage inhibition in the cell based assay screening concentration of 10 M compound in 1 DMSO v v .

SK1 267077 inhibits DNA synthesis. We used SKI 267077 a derivative of SKI 104122 to elucidate the mechanism by which this family of compounds caused growth arrest of human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines. H2030 cells were treated with increasing concentrations of SKI 267077 for 24 hours and then incorporation of H thymide into DNA determined . As shown in SKI 267077 caused a dose dependent decrease in DNA synthesis.

SKI 267077 induces cell cycle arrest at the G1 phase. Cell cycle progression in the presence of SKI 267077 was determined by FACS analysis of H2030 cells that were treated for 24 hours. SKI 267077 treatment resulted in a reduction of the percent of cells in the S phase of the cell cycle and a concomitant increase in the percent of cells in the induce G1 phase .

SKI 267077 stimulates the enzymatic activity of caspase 3 7. Treatment of H2030 with SKI 267077 for 48 hours lead to an increase in the activity of caspase 3 7 .

Dose response studies against 34 compounds from the pyridazinone and phenylfuran carboxamide class were conducted. The 34 compounds were run in a 12 point doubling dilution from 10 uM to 5 nM for IC50 determination against 15 non small cell lung cancer lines representing various EGFR and KRAS mutations see Table 17 . In addition Tarceva was included in these dose response studies.

The dose response studies were done with the following standard procedure. First the cells were counted and dispensed at 250 cells well into 384 well microplates with compound. The cells were incubated for 48 hours at 37 C to complete treatment and then alamar blue was added for an additional 48 hours. Finally alamar blue reduction was measured and the data was loaded into ORIS our data screening acquisition platform. Table 18 provides a summary of these experiments.

The foregoing has been a description of certain non limiting preferred embodiments of the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various changes and modifications to this description may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention as defined in the following claims.

