---

title: Programmable on screen display and remote control
abstract: Both an on screen display and a physical programmable remote control have buttons whose functionality may be dynamically reassigned in accordance with a user's navigation through menu levels, states or across different services. The physical programmable remote control, in conjunction with a TV or other video display, provides an intuitive, heads up experience for the user and eliminates the need for multiple physical remote controls. User profiles and zones may be used to customize a user's remote control functionality based on preferences, access controls, location and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08199113&OS=08199113&RS=08199113
owner: Savant Systems, LLC
number: 08199113
owner_city: Hyannis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070316
---
The present application is a continuation in part of commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 520 215 which was filed on Sep. 13 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 930 644 assigned to a common assignee for PROGRAMMING ENVIRONMENT AND METADATA MANAGEMENT FOR PROGRAMMABLE MULTIMEDIA CONTROLLER and is hereby incorporated by reference.

This application is related to the following copending U.S. patent applications SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR A PROGRAMMABLE MULTIMEDIA CONTROLLER filed Dec. 20 2005 and assigned Ser. No. 11 314 664 PROGRAMMABLE MULTIMEDIA CONTROLLER WITH PROGRAMMABLE SERVICES filed Dec. 20 2005 and assigned Ser. No. 11 314 112 both of which are assigned to a common assignee and all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a programmable on screen display and programmable remote control through which a user may command the operations of a programmable multimedia controller or other device.

A now decades long expansion in the number and types of consumer electronic devices has generated pervasive use of radiofrequency RF and infrared IR remote controls. Originally developed for television remote controls now accompany essentially every CD player DVD player audio receiver TV home theatre camcorder and portable radio. To simply play a DVD and watch a movie on a TV it may be necessary to operate three different remote controls in order to turn on and properly set the TV DVD player and home theatre system for the performance.

One conventional approach to eliminating or reducing the number of physical remote controls is the so called universal remote control. In general a universal remote control works by learning the RF or IR signals to which various devices respond. Once the signals are learned and retained in memory the universal remote control may control multiple devices.

Universal remote controls however present certain disadvantages beginning with a dizzying array of physical buttons perhaps dozens which are often marked with arcane difficult to read labels. Due to the number of buttons they are often so small they are difficult and annoying to use. Further the physical layout of the buttons does not conform to any industry standard nor to an arrangement that most users find intuitive or even familiar. In addition because of the small button size and counterintuitive layout most users cannot operate a universal remote control by touch in a heads up manner but must instead frequently look down at the buttons to ensure the correct one is pressed. This represents a recurring frustrating distraction for many users. Lastly a conventional universal remote control has no capability to change its functionality based on different users preferences handicaps or other factors.

In brief summary the present invention provides both a programmable on screen display and a programmable remote control through which a user may command the operations of a multimedia controller or other device. Through a graphical programming environment the function of each button in the programmable on screen display or physical button on the programmable remote control may be easily assigned or modified. A button s assigned function may vary by individual user to accommodate personal preferences handicaps parental controls or other factors. Similarly a button s assigned function may vary according to a physical zone in which the user is present when using the button.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a button s assigned function is dynamically changed to provide appropriate functionality for the type of service that a user has selected. Similarly a button s assigned functionality may dynamically change in response to a menu level or state to which a user has navigated within a service. Thus for example as a user progressively accesses different services the same button s functionality may dynamically change from up channel while controlling a cable TV converter box to initiate call while controlling video chat to dimmer while controlling a lighting system to any of a number of other desired functionality.

The present invention provides numerous advantages including eliminating the need for separate remote controls for various components that are interconnected with the multimedia controller. The present invention effectively enables a simple remote control having a small number of large buttons into a robust powerful remote control which is intuitively and easily operated in a heads up fashion.

Another advantage of the present invention is that it may effectively replace an expensive bulky and nonportable touchscreen. Further the programmable remote control provided by the present invention is sufficiently inexpensive that every member of a household may have one each of which may be customized in terms of functionality permitted access to services preferences and the like.

When pressed button which appears as an icon of an old fashioned diner music selector will cause the programmable multimedia controller to initiate a Play Media service. Such a service may for example allow a user to play CDs DVDs MP3 files or other media. Button which appears as an icon of a thermostat will when pressed cause the multimedia controller to initiate an HVAC service through which room temperature may be controlled. Button which appears as an icon of a game controller will cause the multimedia controller to initiate a video game service.

Other buttons representing other available services are shown in . For example a button which appears as an icon of a TV will when pressed cause the multimedia controller to initiate a cable TV service. Button which appears as an icon of a widget will when pressed initiate displaying Mac based widgets on the screen. Button which appears as an icon of a compact disk CD will when pressed initiate a CD playing service. Also it may be seen in that button has rotated three positions to the right from where it appears in .

In a preferred embodiment buttons as well as others that may be present rotate on screen display in response to a user action such as pressing a button or applying pressure to a scroll ring on a remote control like that shown in or taking some other action. When a user wishes to press one of the on screen buttons he or she simply rotates the on screen buttons until the desired one appears in the front and center position e.g. button in or button in in on screen display . At that point the user may press the on screen button by pressing an appropriate button on a remote control by touching the corresponding area if a touchscreen is being used or by any of a number of other actions.

In operation a user using remote control may in conjunction with a TV or other video display command the operations of a multimedia controller or other device in a heads up fashion with the user looking generally at the display and not at remote control . For example by pressing button a user may cause on screen buttons of to rotate in one direction. By pressing in a circular motion around outer buttons the user may cause on screen buttons to rotate in the opposite direction. By pressing button a user may effectively press whichever one of on screen buttons is displayed in the front and center position on the screen thereby initiating whatever service or action is assigned to that on screen button.

In a preferred embodiment each Photoshop file contains information preferably organized in groups and layers which define the appearance functionality and other attributes of each on screen or physical button for a given menu state. The information in a given Photoshop file may include notes labels text to speech commands system control commands graphics corresponding to different states of a button or other user control e.g. enabled pressed mouseover display text font size color sound effect and button control type among others.

Files which are typically stored on non volatile media such as a hard drive are read by Quartz Composer another piece of software which is also included within Mac OS X and a run time environment that loads Quartz Composer compositions. Quartz Composer functions to parse Photoshop files thereby extracting all of the embedded groups and layers for the whole file and the graphics as well as for each on screen or physical button.

Quartz Composer patches access the extracted information and using a Quartz Composer function called output ports passes appropriate commands and information from a patch to a control application programming interface API access and user interface UI server . Details regarding the structure and operation of control API access and UI server are set forth in the above referenced related applications.

This arrangement provides a powerful programming capability because it permits an author of a Quartz Composer composition direct access to multiple layers of graphics as well as any other information stored in files . Stated another way by simply altering the information contained in a file an author using widely available and familiar software may easily and rapidly configure modify or customize any aspect of the appearance or functionality of an on screen button or physical button.

In response to commands and information received from patches via output ports control API access and UI server issue appropriate commands and information to service controller . Service controller in turn issues appropriate commands to external components e.g. devices which are interconnected with a programmable multimedia controller to effect whatever action a user has indicated. Details regarding the structure and operation of service controller are found in the above referenced related applications.

To enable a user to navigate through multiple menu levels or states a desired button on the programmable remote control may be programmed with the function next menu. Similarly a desired button may be programmed with the function back or previous menu. 

The foregoing description of how Photoshop files may be used to assign and dynamically change the functionality of physical buttons on a programmable remote control is equally applicable to on screen buttons like those shown in .

In the related application PROGRAMMABLE MULTIMEDIA CONTROLLER WITH PROGRAMMABLE SERVICES there is a detailed description regarding user profiles and zones. In general user profiles are files or other data which include information on an individual user s preferences access rights or restrictions or other information. In general zones are particular rooms or physical areas in which particular devices are present that are interconnected with and under the control of a programmable multimedia controller. In conjunction with the graphical programming environment described in the related application entitled PROGRAMMING ENVIRONMENT AND METADATA MANAGEMENT FOR PROGRAMMABLE MULTIMEDIA CONTROLLER the present invention may be advantageously used to provide on screen or physical button functionality which may be dynamically changed in accordance with a user profile or zone in which a user is located or both.

As shown in panel a user named Default User is identified and is hierarchically associated with a user profile named Default Profile . At the next level of the hierarchy the Lab Station zone is associated with user profile and at the next level on screen display menus are associated with the Lab Station zone. At the next lower level although not visible in this figure are the individual buttons associated with on screen menu . Additional user profiles may be associated with a given zone by using a mouse to select the user row and then clicking on the button located at the lower left of panel .

The ability to associate user profiles with on screen display menus is highly advantageous in many ways. For example a user who is lefthanded may prefer for the functionality assigned to buttons on a programmable remote control to be reversed as compared to a user who is righthanded. By specifying that preference in the user profile and dynamically adjusting the functionality assigned to on screen and physical buttons the present invention effectively customizes and optimizes the user s experience. In another example if the user is a child by specifying that information in the user profile the present invention enables the exercise of parent control to prevent certain on screen display menus from appearing blocking access to certain media and the like.

In a dialog box a lefthand portion is a list of services that may be provided by a programmable multimedia controller which is interconnected with appropriate external components. The first service listed is Lighting Control Service which is shaded to indicate that service requests listed in a righthand portion of dialog box correspond to the Lighting Control Service. As shown the available service requests are named ButtonPress ButtonPressAndRelease ButtonRelease DimmerSet SwitchOff and SwitchOn. Stated another way the available service requests represent actions that a user may take in connection with the Lighting Control Service which will be recognized by the programmable multimedia controller as valid actions.

Any of the service requests may be assigned to any of the on screen display buttons or physical buttons on a programmable remote control that appear in panel which is the same panel shown in except that the on screen display menu named RotateLighting is now expanded and displayed. To assign a particular service request to a particular button one simply uses a mouse to drag the service request and drop it on the desired button .

The foregoing description has been directed to particular embodiments of this invention. It will be apparent however that other variations and modifications may be made to the described embodiments with the attainment of some or all of their advantages. Additionally the procedures or processes may be implemented in hardware software embodied as a computer readable medium having program instructions firmware or a combination thereof. Therefore it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

