---

title: Systems and methods for dynamic page creation
abstract: A computer-implemented method of dynamically creating a page module for a word on a display screen is provided. The page module is creating by determining a word provided for defining the page module, searching for text directly associated with the word and text contextually associated with the word, and, searching for media directly associated with the word and contextually associated with the word. The type of page module layout for the word is then identified. The page module layout includes placeholders for displaying at least some of the text that is directly or contextually associated with the word and at least some of the media that is directly or contextually associated with the word in the page module. The page module is then displayed by drawing the page module layout on the display screen and populating the page module layout with at least some of the media that is directly or contextually associated with the word.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367639&OS=09367639&RS=09367639
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09367639
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070809
---
This Application is related to co pending 1 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 723 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Method for Comments Aggregation and Carryover in Word Pages which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 972 458 on Mar. 3 2015 2 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 721 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing Enhanced Content Portability in a Word Page Module which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 595 183 on Nov. 26 2013 3 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 719 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Multi function Search Box for Creating Word Pages and 4 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 717 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Persistent Navigation Bar in a Word Page which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 930 645 on Apr. 19 2011 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention generally relates to displaying information related to a given word. More specifically but without limitation this invention relates to generating a web page to provide information that is focused around a word. The information in the word page is presented and organized to optimize user interactivity with the web page.

The computing industry has seen many advances in recent years and such advances have produced a multitude products and services. Internet websites are examples of products and services which are created to give users access to particular types of services data or searching capabilities. Today websites can be readily created by most individuals desiring to post information or provide access or connectivity to other data. Websites are also created updated and supported to provide constantly updated current event information news and other information. This data is highly managed and processed so that its presentation can be easily displayed on web browsers or other Internet connected devices.

Currently to date however the traditional web sites provide mostly unstructured and contextually unrelated information to a user. For example when a phrase is searched resulting web page typically displays many links to external websites. These links to external websites are typically selected to be displayed on the web page based on phrase matching criteria without any consideration for user interactivity and or contextual relationship with the searched phrase. Generally the user is forced to visit many external websites associated with presented links to find more information about the searched phrase.

The user in this example would feel disconnected with the content browsing experience and may get exhausted from pointless information browsing during their search for more contextually related or connected information.

Broadly speaking the present invention fills these needs by providing a modular system that generates and presents content related to one or more content types that are defined herein to be vertical types. A vertical type may define a specific type of media content such as movies music pictures games videos gossip etc. Each of the vertical types in one embodiment is presented in a page module. If more than one vertical type is presented in response to a word query then a webpage is created with two or more modules and each module may include the latest content for that vertical. Each vertical can then be navigated by users and users can further define different views or arrangements of the content in each module based on the received navigation of the user. Furthermore the word query when entered by the user will define contextually related words that can also cause the generation of new modules for the webpage. The resulting webpage is therefore dynamically generated and created as opposed to visits to web pages that are pre defined or constructed for conventional searching and navigation. Consequently all searching and navigation occurs from within the webpage of modules thus eliminating the need to perform external web searching.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method of dynamically creating a page module for a word on a display screen is provided. The page module is creating by determining a word provided for defining the page module searching for text directly associated with the word and text contextually associated with the word and searching for media directly associated with the word and contextually associated with the word. The type of page module layout for the word is then identified. The page module layout includes placeholders for displaying at least some of the text that is directly or contextually associated with the word and at least some of the media that is directly or contextually associated with the word in the page module. The page module is then displayed by drawing the page module layout on the display screen and populating the page module layout with at least some of the media that is directly or contextually associated with the word.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method of defining and arranging page modules defined for a word in a word page is provided. The defining and arranging of page modules include monitoring a relative interest of a user in the page modules by calculating an interest index for the relative interest of the user in the page modules the calculating of the interest index includes factoring user interactivity with the page modules. Moreover the defining and arranging of page modules further include storing the relative interest of the user in a persistent storage and displaying the page modules in the word page chronologically by the interest index of each of the page modules.

In yet another embodiment a page module for a word is provided. The page module is dynamically created through a user action related to the word. The page module includes a placeholder towards bottom of the page module to display a plurality of related words each of the plurality of related words is related to the word with a subject context a placeholder substantially in the middle of the page module to display a media a placeholder towards top of the page module to display a title of the page module a placeholder towards top of the page module to display a module search box to enable filtering of contents of the page module and a placeholder towards bottom of the page module to display a number denoting viewer comments count for the page module.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Most notably the system and apparatus described herein provide the newest content for each vertical and or relevant interest all to the main page which in turn allows a user to quickly scroll the page to find what they are interested in and then dive deeper into any of the modules each hosting a specific type and flavor of information.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the present invention.

The figures are provided in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The figures should not be construed as limiting the breath of the invention in any manner.

A system and apparatus for generating a word page including page modules that present content for a specific vertical e.g. content types is provided. A word page includes page modules that present content having specific context. Context can be defined based on types of media or categories with a type of media. In one embodiment a vertical defines a type of media such as music movies communication shopping gaming etc. Within each vertical further contextual categories can be defined. For instance within music a context can be defined for types of music each artist etc. Thus for purposes of clarity the degrees and granularity by which types of context can be broken up or organized can grow over time as further context definitions are generated for words. The word page as used herein is a web page that is constructed from one or more page modules. The page modules as noted above will each define a type of content such as movie related content music related content picture related content game related content video related content gossip related content etc. From within the word page or specific page modules it is possible to enter or select a word and that word will be used to rearrange construct or obtain content that will define the presentation data interactivity images etc. of specific page modules. Thus the word page is a contained page that dynamically changes depending on the selected or entered word. A word page is therefore not a search engine or search interface that triggers a search of web links or external websites. To the contrary the word page will contain or generate one or more page modules and the data that is presented in each of the page modules dynamically changes or is updated over time or based on the entered word or the selection of specific words within a particular page module of the word page.

As used herein to be contextually related means that a particular word that may be entered by a user is related to other words or phrases. Other words or phrases may be related in terms of context and the context means that there is some weaving together of words in terms of meaning subject or a combination thereof. Thus words that are contextually related to other words or phrases may be connected in terms of coherence. Still further context can be thought of in terms of parts of a discourse that surround a word or passage and can throw light on the meaning of the entered word. Some words that are considered contextually related may be defined based on some descriptive interrelation dependence or condition based on a theme environment setting event group of similar media similar activities or combinations thereof.

In one example information retrieved for a user s interest is displayed in different types of page modules. For example music related content is displayed in a music module gossip related content is displayed in a gossip module and so on. Various types of standard page modules are provided to display a set of popular content types. Unlike traditional search engines that provide links to possible information about a searched phrase a web page e.g. word page is created for the entered word as defined in one embodiment. Furthermore the created word page provides content in a user friendly manner as opposed to providing raw links to external web sites or web resources. Moreover unlike traditional search engines that present links leading to possible unrelated information about a phrase the word page hosts information either directly or contextually related to the entered word.

In one embodiment a page module provides a filter to enable selection of particular content aspects within the same content type of the page module. The filter may be presented as a dropdown or other interface format that defines categories that will enable regeneration of the page module in accordance with the filter. For example in a game module the filter dropdown in one embodiment may include various game categories such as x games kids games etc. Thus the page module can be rebuilt around a selected category after the filter is applied.

The page module in one embodiment includes a word bar. A word bar is defined to include one or more words that may be selected by user selection. The words in the word bar can changed dynamically based on the focused content defined in the page module and in one embodiment selection of a word in the word bar can cause the regeneration of the entire word page e.g. around the context of the selected word . Consequently selection of a word from any of the word bars associated with any of the page modules can cause the regeneration of the word page that contains one or more page modules.

The page modules in a word page are rearranged based on the user interactivity with the page module. For example if a user interact with music module more often than any other module the music module will be positioned towards that top of the page during subsequent visits.

With this overview in mind the following figures will illustrate example structure and functionality of dynamic generation of page modules of word pages based on selection or entry of a word.

In one embodiment the favorite module is a special type of page module that is used for storing pointers or references to page modules that were previously marked as favorite . In another embodiment various user defined content or links to external resources media movie clips albums etc. may also be stored in the favorite module . In yet another embodiment the favorite module contains content specific to a particular user. Such content is added to the favorite module through user action. In yet another embodiment one or more page modules are generated for the entered word favorite . The page modules that are generated for the entered word favorite contain user s favorite content in one or more vertical category such as music movies events etc. User s favorite content in one embodiment is based on the logged in user s the user profile information including at least one of user s preferences age sexual orientation geographical location. In another embodiment if the user has not logged in user s content browsing pattern and interactivity with the page modules is stored the cookies or temporary files which are then used to generate or assemble user s favorite content in various vertical content categories. In yet another embodiment the generation of user s favorite content is based on a combination of user profile information and user s interactivity with the page modules during one or more prior word website browsing sessions.

As illustrated in word surrounded by page modules sponsored modules and favorite module signifies that a quest for information related to the word leads to generation of various types of page modules and sponsored modules each hosting a specific type of content. Word relates to a concept person brand etc and functions as a carrier of meaning. further illustrates that generation of the word page revolves around selection of the word i.e. information displayed through various page modules is focused on the selected word . For example selecting popular for word will generate a word page with the most popular content for each respective page module such as popular movie popular music popular celebrity popular fashion popular club etc. . A new word page including a different set of page modules is generated every time a new word is selected. Hence in above example when the selection changes from popular to newest a new word page including page modules such as newest movies newest music album newest car models etc. will be generated. In one example the word page for word newest will have a movie page module displaying trailers from the recently released movie Spider Man and a news module listing the latest news bulletins collected from one or more news sources.

In one embodiment the system maintains a list of words and a list of appropriate page modules for various types of content related to each of the words in the list. For example for word newest the system may have a movie module a games module a music module a news module and a gossip module etc. in the list. Hence in this example a word page generated for word newest will have a movie module a games module a music module a news module and a gossip module by default. In one embodiment words and page modules are maintained and updated by the information editors with the help of user s browsing patterns latest stories about various celebrities products etc. various topics that users may be interested in the latest news etc. Content is grouped in different categories such as content related to a particular subject or word suitable or liked to a particular segment of users. In one embodiment content is regularly and continuously updated to keep up with the latest developments. In another embodiment various types of content are scanned and obtained from various electronic media sources automatically based on context based search filters.

The title is used to display a title of content of a page module sponsored module or favorite module . Text displayed in the title is also a word i.e. the title is selectable by a user and such selection would also triggers a generation of a new word page focused around the word in the title . In one embodiment some of the commonly used titles are music movie latest gossip etc. Title is generally a topic name of content in the page module . For example a page module with title text music will have contents either directly or contextually related to music.

Still referring to because title is also a word that has its own context around it selecting the title will generate a new word page to display various page modules centered or focused around the word. For example in a word page focused around word Lindsay Lohan that contains a module named Music i.e. Music is the title of the page module featuring the music of Lindsay Lohan selecting or clicking on the title of Music page module would cause generation of a new word page now focused at music. This new word page will for instance have page modules focused at classical music newest music album heavy metal jazz etc. all centered around and focused on Music . Thus as used herein a word does not have to be a single word but can be a set of words to define a person place or thing. A word however is different than a phrase which may be in the form of a sentence. Therefore broadly speaking a word can be a single word or tight collection of words that convey context.

Thus cyclic generation of word pages that include only contextually relevant and highly focused information provide a higher degree of browsing experience because the user is not forced to jump from one website to another website in search of relevant content.

In one embodiment the word bar is provided to display other words related to the subject matter of the page module . Word bar may include words that are contextually related to the subject matter of content of the page module . For example word bar in a scene module may contain words Clubbing Sunday Split etc. because these words are contextually related to the topic of page module .

In one embodiment the word bar may also contain one or more sponsored words . Sponsored words are bought or paid for by advertisers and can be displayed in the word bar when a specified sponsoring criteria is met. In another embodiment the system identifies a sponsored word to be included in the word bar based on the user interest in a particular type of subject matter user s past browsing history user s like for a particular brand etc. Selecting a word in the word bar will generate a new word page to display page modules and optionally sponsored modules centered around and focused on the word selected through the word bar . Hence in this embodiment if a word page is generated around a word Celebrity in which a page module named Music is displayed the word N Sync would appear in the word bar . Selecting or clicking the word N Sync in the word bar will cause generation of a new word page. This new word page will for instance have page modules such as Music Latest Gossip etc. all centered or focused around the word N Sync .

In one embodiment a word bar can be used for targeted advertising campaigns. For example the marketer of the brand Pepsi through a advertising relationship relates the word N Sync with the word Pepsi . Hence in a word page centered around word N Sync that includes a Latest page module word bar in the Latest page module may include a word Pepsi . Selecting word Pepsi on the word bar would generate a new page focused on brand Pepsi and including content provided or specified by the advertiser. In one example this sponsored content also includes content that is unrelated to the sponsored brand e.g. a word page focused on Pepsi may include page modules to enable presentation of clips from the latest movies or latest music albums .

In order to make sponsored content unobtrusive factors such as visual appeal motion and minimal contribution to clutter etc. are considered. Hence at a first glance of the word page advertising seems to be missing but when a user interacts with any of page modules sponsored content are intermixed with content of page modules . In one embodiment this mixing of sponsored content with content of page modules is done without jeopardizing contextual relationship of the entered word with content of page modules .

In one embodiment comments control has two states i.e. a closed state and an expanded state. In closed state comments control shows a number referring to a number of comments written by the users for a page module that includes a particular type of content focused on a particular word . Comments control may be expanded by selecting or clicking on the word. In the expanded form comments control displays a full text of comments and replies to these comments. In one embodiment a comment may be replied a reply to a comment may be replied and so on. The comments and replies are laid out for easy identification between a comment and a reply.

A comment or a reply or a reply to a reply may be in textual form an audio form or in an audio visual or audio video form. The expanded view of comments control provides functionality to control the audio and visual aspects of audio or audio visual comments through volume and video controls provided therein.

In one embodiment the database or a group of databases contains all content necessary to generate a word page from an entered word . In another embodiment database or a group of databases may contain links or references to external sources from where information may be retrieved and formatted for displaying in page modules and sponsored modules . Comments and replies to comments related to specific objects such as a picture part of the picture a video a quote an event etc. on page modules and sponsored modules are also stored in databases along with a relationship of a comment to an object to which the comment relates.

Text and media directly and contextually related to the entered word is retrieved from the database or a group of databases. A media includes movies videos audios audio video still pictures or any other type of non textually visual presentations. Based on the type of media and text a page module layout based on the subject matter of the retrieved data is identified . The page module layout is populated with the retrieved text and media to form a specific type of page module or sponsored module . The system continues looking for relevant data to generate page modules in the word page . Generation of word page ends when system no longer finds contextually relevant data in database or in the group of databases or in one or more external sources.

In one embodiment when database does not contain content related to entered word the system tries to retrieve relevant information from a configured set of external sources through a commercially available internet search engine such as Yahoo Search.

In one embodiment a Today module not shown the may be shown in a word page. The Today module contains an editorial peak at what s big today with branded bumpers content clips and interactive games with new version available frequently. Thus this content is related either directly or contextually to the searched word which led to the generation of the Today module .

A Gossip module is provided to show the newest street talks about some specific contents or personality profile retrieved for the searched WORD . In one embodiment the Gossip module also displays preview of past information about the subject matter and the source of the information.

A Scene module is a special type of page module . The Scene module pulls photos from parties and events based on geo targeting with a place for adding comments on one or more scenes pictures or media in the Scene module . In one embodiment each scene is provided with a note box for writing comments. A DJ mix is also provided in this embodiment for a more immersive browsing experience. Moreover the scenes in the Scene module may be viewed in full screen mode or in slideshow mode either with or without an audio associated with the scenes.

A Games module is also illustrated in . In one embodiment the Games module contains video game trailers game play footage interviews and reviews of video games. The games in the Games module may be sorted via the filter dropdown .

A Celebrity Photos module may also be included in the word page depending upon either a user preference user browsing behavior or the subject matter of the word search etc. This module shows a collection of celebrity photos that may be enlarged for viewing. The selection of photos included in this module is in direct or contextual relationship with the entered word . The photos may be viewed in a slideshow format. In one embodiment additional information about a photo or a picture is displayed when the photo is selected or clicked by the user. Additional information may include a general description of the photo names or one or more celebrities in the photo location of the shoot occasion etc.

A Movie module may also be included in a word page for an entered word . The Movies module is an expanded video module with more room for metadata and an expanded thumbnail navigation. In one embodiment the expanded thumbnail navigation is used for showing movie posters. This embodiment may also include action controls for operations such as show times add to Netflix queue etc. The movie trailers may be filtered by genre. In another embodiment a filter criteria based on the category of movies may be employed. In another embodiment full length movies may be included in this module. The movies may be viewed full screen. In one embodiment the full screen view also includes navigational elements for picking other trailers and filtering.

The Next module may be provided in a word page. In one embodiment the Next module contains highlights of top words that weren t on the top page. Selection of any of these words would reload the entire word page with the information focused around the selected word . This module continues the browsing experience for a user who has consumed the entire page.

Referring to in one example Word Justin is shown in the multifunction search box the word bar and the title to illustrate that choosing or selecting this word from the multifunction search box the word bar or the title would result in the same results i.e. reloading or generating the word page focused around word Justin .

Shell of a word page may contain a logo of the choice of a website host sign in up functionality to enable users to either login or signup to be a new user. In one embodiment login functionality is used to track user browsing pattern or behavior to help the word page show the most interesting contents to the logged in user. Shell may also contain a background image or theme which may be selectable by a user and a scroll bar to move word page content up or down on the display screen.

In one embodiment a word page determines which page modules and sponsored modules should be displayed. Word page also determines a display order of included page modules and sponsored module based on module prioritization of newness events i.e. New music Tuesdays etc. adaptive personalization via user interactions for example if a user views game related content more than anything else game module will move up the word page and other modules displaying game related content may be added in the word page and editorial sales placement i.e. big product releases or a sold event may impact how high up the page it may appear . In one embodiment content within each page module is determined by the page modules themselves based on adaptive personalization via user interactions etc. When a vertical category is selected in the multifunction search box the word page is generated according to entered or selected word . For example selecting movies will still load a page with a music module but it would be set to soundtracks.

Generation of a word page includes handling of constantly changing content cross vertical news and events and varying time spans of freshness i.e. new music is released once a week while photos and gossip may be added every few hours . The ever changing content make manual personalization less useful and less effective. Hence in one embodiment an adaptive personalization process is employed in the generation and ordering of content in the word page.

Still referring to in a next visit to the word page by the 15 year old male user the page modules are ordered differently. Game module is pushed to the top of the word page based on previous interactivity and other deciding factors. In one embodiment the order of page modules is decided based on factors such as previous interactivity of the user with the content of the word page age of the user general preferences of other users of user age current events general preferences of members of user s community etc. In one embodiment one or more of these user preferences are obtained from information stored in the Internet browser cookies. In other embodiment the user preferences and community preferences are obtained from the user registration storage.

Still referring to a game module in which the games are pre filtered to x genre category is pushed to the top of the page in user s subsequent visit to the word page. In this embodiment showing game module pre filtered to x genre game category is based on user s like for x genre games during previous visits to the game module . Furthermore more than one game module can be displayed to the user based on his strong liking for games related content. In one embodiment the page module rankings are cut across the word pages i.e. user s preference for a particular type of content remains a factor in the generation of a web page focused around any word. For example if a user was most interested in games related content in the word page focused around word A user will see content related to the games at an elevated position in a new word page focused around word B .

In one embodiment a combination of interests and interactions enables the adaptive personalization engine to determine what additional content users may enjoy the most and what content should be higher on the word page for their frequency of interaction.

In one embodiment media is a video in another embodiment media is a still picture and in yet another embodiment media can be one of audio visual audio music audio album music video album. In yet another embodiment media could be any visual presentation that is capable of being displayed in the page module . Metadata display as illustrated in pertains to a music album. In other embodiments metadata display may take different shape and display different meta information based on the type of media.

In one embodiment Who placeholder displays identity of the singer or actor of the media. What placeholder displays name of the song or title of the media. Buy Album control initiates a transaction by which a user can buy the audio album of the song that is being played in page module . Buy Video control initiates a transaction by which a user can buy the video album of the song or a music title that is being played in the page module .

In one embodiment media control also includes a BIG control . BIG control is used to view media in a full screen mode. Selecting BIG control enlarges the media in page module to occupy all available space in page module to show the media in full screen. In one embodiment the media control remains visible on the full screen view of media. Caption of BIG control changes to LIL when media is being shown in a full screen mode. Selecting BIG control when BIG control is showing caption LIL reverts back the media to original viewing mode.

Still referring to User has indicated his her liking for Britney Spears illustrated by a line linking user with Britney Spears . Lines linking Pepsi and Red Bull to Britney Spears are indicating that both Pepsi and Red Bull are vying for the users who like Britney Spears . also illustrates that user likes Transformers and Surf s Up which Pepsi is associated with hence making Pepsi a better match for user . User however will see Pepsi for Transformers content but not for Gears of War because User is more interested in content associate with Red Bull . As apparent brand mapping information may also help advertisers by showing what their customers are interested in so that the advertisers may make necessary changes in the brand or advertising.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention may employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The programming modules page modules and subsystems described in this document can be implemented using a programming language such as Flash JAVA C C C Visual Basic JAVA Script PHP XML HTML etc. or a combination of programming languages. Commonly available application programming interface API such as HTTP API XML API and parsers etc. are used in the implementation of the programming modules. As would be known to those skilled in the art that the components and functionality described above and elsewhere in this document may be implemented on any desktop operating system which provides a support for a display screen such as different versions of Microsoft Windows Apple Mac Unix X Windows Linux etc. using any programming language suitable for desktop software development.

The programming modules and ancillary software components including configuration file or files along with setup files required for installing the widget dock and related functionality as described in this document are stored on a computer readable medium. Any computer medium such as a flash drive a CD ROM disk an optical disk a floppy disk a hard drive a shared drive and an storage suitable for providing downloads from connected computers could be used for storing the programming modules and ancillary software components. It would be known to a person skilled in the art that any storage medium could be used for storing these software components so long as the storage medium can be read by a computer system.

The invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs DVDs Flash magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

While this invention has been described in terms of several preferable embodiments it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon reading the specifications and studying the drawings will realize various alternation additions permutations and equivalents thereof. It is therefore intended that the present invention includes all such alterations additions permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

