---

title: System and method for a personal video inbox channel
abstract: A method of aggregating video content receives video content data related to video content, evaluates and aggregates this information, and subsequently forwards the aggregated information to a viewing client where it can be viewed by a user. In one embodiment, the video content data contains a Universal Resource Indicator (URI) that specifies to the viewing client the location of the video content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671428&OS=08671428&RS=08671428
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08671428
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071108
---
Aspects of the present invention relate generally to a system that allows a user to create and view a personal video channel where the channel comprises video content from disparate sources and is available to the user anywhere.

Currently there exists no simple way of consuming the myriad video options available to end users. Generally users must be in close physical proximity to the various devices used to decode and present the video content received by the devices. For example if a user has recorded something to his Digital Video Recorder DVR he must usually watch that recorded content in his home and on his TV. Similarly if a user wants to watch an on demand movie VoD he generally must be in front of his TV at home. Further there are currently so many disparate sources of content and methods of retrieving them e.g. cable satellite Internet broadcast mobile etc. that an end user can feel overwhelmed with the amount of options available especially where the user finds the vast majority of available video content uninteresting but has a very specific idea of what sort of content he does like.

Thus it is desirable to provide a user with a personal video channel customized and programmed by him directly and indirectly by taking into account content he has already consumed which can be viewed from various locations other than those generally associated with the various content sources.

In light of the foregoing it is a general object of the present invention to enable a user to consume personalized video content originating from disparate sources wherever he chooses.

Detailed descriptions of one or more embodiments of the invention follow examples of which may be graphically illustrated in the drawings. Each example and embodiment is provided by way of explanation of the invention and is not meant as a limitation of the invention. For example features described as part of one embodiment may be utilized with another embodiment to yield still a further embodiment. It is intended that the present invention include these and other modifications and variations.

Aspects of the present invention are described below in the context of enabling the aggregation of desired video content from disparate sources so as to create a channel personalized for a particular user.

As used herein the phrases video inbox and video inbox system may refer to a few different implementations of the same general concept namely a system that allows a user to access video content originated from disparate sources where the video content is personalized for the user and available to the user regardless of his location. Similar to regular e mail the video inbox may be thought of as an aggregator or as a way of filtering the large amount of video content available to a user down to only that content he finds interesting and into a single place for consumption.

Presently there is a large amount of video content available on the Internet and through existing video service providers e.g. cable satellite broadcast etc. and it is no longer the case that a television within one s home is the only way to consume video content. Between the content providers there are literally thousands of channels available to a viewer. In addition the popularity of Internet sites that host video content Internet video sites and make it available for consumption by the general public e.g. Yahoo Video YouTube Google Video etc. has greatly increased the number of channels a user has to choose from.

Further many broadcast and cable channels now offer online streaming video of their regular shows so that viewers can watch them on their computers any time they want. In addition to watching shows on their computers users may also watch some shows and other content on their mobile phones which are becoming more like general purpose computers limited mainly by their connectivity speeds screen sizes and the like i.e. other aspects of scalability . Currently mobile service providers offer consumers the ability to watch TV shows news sports highlights etc. on their mobile phones and some mobile devices can simply view videos just as any other client would e.g. a regular desktop computer etc. .

It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that in the context of Internet video services sites DVRs etc. the idea of a channel is fairly fungible. For example one may consider as a channel a syndication feed which uses for example Really Simple Syndication RSS Atom etc. to format the feed in such an implementation a user may subscribe to a feed associated with a particular content provider e.g. another user who uploads content to a video service once a week a podcast producer etc. . In addition to the feeds for particular content providers a video service may offer feeds defined by any of a number of other criteria such as for example most popular most viewed content tagged labeled with a certain term or phrase etc. While video services may use RSS Atom syndication as a way of alerting interested users of new content there may also be a proprietary system worked out between the video inbox system and the respective video service. As another example those shows saved by a user to his personal DVR may collectively be thought of as a channel corresponding to the user s particular interests.

While there is abundant content it is not equally distributed or always available across TV web mobile devices etc. One purpose of a personal video channel is to aggregate all of the disparate content and to the extent possible make it available to the user over a network no matter where he is or what device he is using. Like an e mail application a centralized and personalized inbox of text e mail the personal video inbox can create a one stop shop for video that the user finds interesting irrespective of the source of the content e.g. cable DVR a website VoD etc. .

A Video Inbox Server also may handle the task of content sharing between users of the system. For example Video Inbox Clients as detailed below may allow the user to specify that certain video content be shared with friends of the user in such a case Video Inbox Server may simply include the shared content in the friend s aggregated channel information subject to rights management issues as discussed herein .

Video Inbox Server may also provide recommendation functionality such that a particular user s selections i.e. the video content he chooses to be a part of his personal video channel etc. helps to inform Video Inbox Server of his likes and dislikes subsequently allowing Video Inbox Server to suggest particular content the system thinks the user may enjoy. Moreover Video Inbox Server may employ a ratings system e.g. where a user through Video Inbox Client may mark a certain show as a favorite etc. that may further inform a system generated recommendation. Information provided by a user regarding the content to which he is subscribed his friends his likes and dislikes his login and password etc. may collectively be referred to as channel settings i.e. those settings that define his personalized video channel . In addition to system generated recommendations channel settings may also be used by Video Inbox Server to generate advertisements to be relayed to Video Inbox Clients . The advertisements may or may not be related to content currently being consumed and may be displayed in many different forms e.g. video images audio etc. and in various contexts e.g. overlayed on video the user is currently watching as an interstitial etc. .

In one embodiment Video Inbox Server may offer web services for interacting with it web services generally allow users to take advantage of web based applications while abstracting them away from the usual web browser paradigm. Generally web services comprise an Application Programming Interface API through which the machines i.e. Video Inbox Clients and Content Sources may talk to each other and exchange information. The operation and purpose of web APIs are well known in the art. Briefly however and much like any API a web API is an interface to some service running on a remote system and accessed over a network. Various sometimes overlapping methods and protocols exist for implementing web APIs such as for example Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Representative State Transfer REST XML RPC etc. and most use variations of Extensible Modeling Language XML data formats for messaging i.e. transferring data between the web service and the local application .

In another embodiment the user s interaction with Video Inbox Server e.g. to change account settings etc. may be through a website interface accessed through for example a web browser.

Video Inbox Clients are those applications that end users may use to discover view the latest content added to their personal video channel and interact with the options settings offered by Video Inbox Server . Video Inbox Clients talk to Video Inbox Server over network and usually through a web service offered by Video Inbox Server as discussed above . For the system to work as intended as a personal video channel accessible from anywhere Video Inbox Clients may be implemented in any of a number of different ways for use on myriad devices so that the user may be informed of and consume new content irrespective of his location.

In one embodiment such a client may be implemented as a Rich Internet Application RIA as is known in the art a Rich Internet Application RIA is one that runs locally e.g. on a user s computer but interacts with a remote service e.g. a web service as discussed above . It is through web services that RIAs usually operate and because the RIAs are local and are not necessarily bound by the traditional client server architecture they tend to bypass the usual interaction loop and take on more of the processing requirements thereby allowing for richer manipulation of data than may otherwise be possible. One of the technologies used to provide this type of experience is Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Ajax which enables RIAs and web pages generally to interact with web sites asynchronously i.e. behind the scenes outside of the usual page loading process because Ajax allows for parts of a page to be loaded in the background each time new data is requested the interaction between the RIA and the server can feel much more responsive than it otherwise would.

While RIAs may be implemented within a web browser they also may exist as completely stand alone applications local desktop applications capable of talking to and interacting with web applications. While there are various frameworks and platforms specifically designed for RIAs e.g. Adobe s Adobe Integrated Runtime Microsoft s Silverlight etc. they can also be constructed using traditional programming languages such as for example Java C etc.

In another embodiment and as illustrated in Video Inbox Client may be integrated into a webmail client which is an application generally running within a web browser that interfaces with a server side webmail provider e.g. Yahoo Mail etc. . Such an application will likely consist of some combination of HTML CSS asynchronous JavaScript and XML etc. but is by no means limited to such an implementation e.g. one may be inclined to build an interface entirely in Flash etc. . In such an embodiment the user may be able to stream videos from within the e mail interface as illustrated by integrated Video Inbox Client and not have to load any other applications e.g. those native applications discussed below for example where the body of an e mail is usually found a Flash based implementation of Video Inbox Client may reside capable of interacting with Video Inbox Server and streaming content from Content Sources .

The webmail client may have e mail folders and may also include a Video Inbox button for launching integrated Video Inbox Client . Video Inbox controls are available to the user just as they are on other implementations of Video Inbox Client i.e. Video Inbox controls are part of integrated Video Inbox Client and may include the ability to play pause videos share videos with friends etc. It will be appreciated that In addition to Video Inbox controls other content information may be displayed by integrated Video Inbox Client such as for example content source date title etc.

In addition to RIAs and web browser interfaces Video Inbox Clients may be implemented as native applications developed specifically for various devices and or operating systems. For example Video Inbox Clients may be developed for various desktop operating systems various mobile operating systems i.e. those used on a mobile phone personal digital assistant etc. various DVR operating systems various TV set top boxes etc.

Content Sources are those services that provide video content. These services may include video on demand VoD providers Internet video sites e.g. Yahoo Video YouTube etc. personal Digital Video Recorders DVRs local TV broadcasts etc. Content Sources may alert Video Inbox Server to a content change or addition video content data in various ways. In one embodiment Content Sources may use a syndication format to tell Video Inbox Server when it has updated its content. Generally in such a case the Content Source updates a syndication file on a web server and Video Inbox Server polls this file at a pre determined frequency e.g. once an hour etc. . If Video Inbox Server perceives a change in the file i.e. something has been added to it since the last time it was checked it evaluates the new video content data as described in more detail below in reference to . In another embodiment Content Sources may provide an API through which Video Inbox Clients and Video Inbox Server may talk to each other and exchange information e.g. updated video content the streaming of video from Content Sources to Video Inbox Clients etc. .

It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the method of accessing and or exchanging the video content data and streaming the video content is not limited to those methods outlined above but may also include any combination and permutation of the described methods and other methods generally known in the art.

Generally the information exchanged between the three main components of the system namely Video Inbox Server Video Inbox clients and Content Sources may comprise links or pointers to the actual content. In one embodiment such links may be in the form of Universal Resource Indicators URIs and may comprise any of a number of different protocols such as for example the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP the File Transfer Protocol FTP etc. and any secure implementations thereof e.g. sFTP etc. . For example a URI to a video hosted at the Yahoo Video service may take a form similar to http video.yahoo.com video play vid 953086.

In another embodiment the links or pointers may be proprietary as between Video Inbox Server Video Inbox Client and Content Sources or some combination thereof. For example it may be the case that a particular content source offers a means other than a URI through which its content may be accessed over Network . In such a case Video Inbox Server may be apprised of the method protocol etc. and subsequently support that particular content source i.e. be able to relay the information to Video Inbox Clients in such a way as to allow the clients to receive the information and consume the referenced content .

Irrespective of the exchange method Video Inbox Server may use it to determine if there is updated video content data from any of the content sources. If there is updated video content data Video Inbox Server can evaluate the video content data as illustrated at block . The evaluation of the video content data may involve any number of tasks and steps. For example it is required that Video Inbox Server knows to which users the new video content data will be forwarded as part of the users aggregated channel information. Such a determination may be made in any of a number of different ways three of which are described below by way of example.

In one implementation Video Inbox Server may receive updated video content data from every Content Source subscribed to by every user of the system irrespective of who is actually subscribed to each Content Source . In this case once updated video content data is available Video Inbox Server may realize who is subscribed to that particular content source and may forward the information accordingly as part of the user s aggregated channel information.

In another implementation Video Inbox Server may segregate each user by those Content Sources to which he is subscribed. In such a case Video Inbox Server may receive updated video content data multiple times for the same content source i.e. as many times as the number of users subscribed to the content source .

In still another implementation deducing to which users the video content data will be forwarded may involve a combination of the above methods indeed such a combination may be required where a user is subscribed to content specific to him e.g. content from his personal DVR etc. and also subscribed to content available to all other users or where a content source supplies its information through an API which allows only a limited number of connections from Video Inbox Server e.g. thirty times an hour etc.

Where the video content is restricted in one way or another Video Inbox Server may be made aware of the restriction and act accordingly. While most content likely will not be restricted e.g. personal video user generated content video podcasts etc. it may be the case that the updated video content data corresponds to content that involves various rights management issues including whether advertisements may be displayed concomitantly with the content. For example if a user is being sent pointers to a movie he has recorded on his personal DVR and wants to share that content with a friend the content ultimately received by the friend i.e. the link to the content may be a short preview or trailer of the movie instead of the movie itself. Such rights management may be worked out through an API used between the personal DVR and Video Inbox Server . For example the personal DVR may in its transmission of the updated video content data also include rights management information regarding how and by whom the content may be consumed and whether it may be accompanied by advertisements. If for whatever reason Video Inbox Server does not understand the stated restrictions or if the restrictions preclude any and all sharing etc. Video Inbox Server may invoke some sort of error handling mechanism by which the user who was to receive the content is alerted to the fact that either the content is protected and cannot be watched or there was an error in evaluating the content etc.

As illustrated at block the updated video content data is forwarded to particular Video Inbox Clients after it has been evaluated and determined to be a part of a particular user s aggregated channel. Similar to the discussion herein regarding the information exchange between Content Sources and Video Inbox Server the information exchange between Video Inbox Server and Video Inbox Clients may be facilitated through a variety of methods including syndication and web APIs. In one embodiment the information may be forwarded to Video Inbox Clients as Video Inbox Server receives it. In another embodiment the updated video content data may be relayed according to a pre determined schedule e.g. once an hour twice a day etc. .

It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that not all video inbox client implementations will be able to support all desired functionality because of connectivity screen resolution etc. In one embodiment Video Inbox Server may know or guess at the limitations of the device. For example during the initial handshake process e.g. when the user logs in to his account etc. Video Inbox Clients may signify to Video Inbox Server the type of client and connection they are using not unlike how a web browser transmits various client information to a web server through the user agent string. Depending on the client and or connection information supplied to Video Inbox Server the server can decide which video content data to forward to the client. For example if Video Inbox Server is aware that a user is currently interacting with his personal video channel through a mobile phone i.e. one of the Video Inbox Clients is a mobile phone with a slow Internet connection it may choose to not forward that particular video content data to the phone e.g. if the newly available content is High Definition video incapable of being streamed over a mobile phone data network the user may not be bothered with it until he is using a client that can support it .

The sequence and numbering of blocks depicted in is not intended to imply an order of operations to the exclusion of other possibilities. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the foregoing systems and methods are susceptible of various modifications and alterations. For example the forwarding of aggregated channel information as illustrated at block may not occur immediately after updated video content data is received and evaluated as illustrated at blocks and it may be the case that multiple video content data are received before any aggregated channel information is forwarded.

Several features and aspects of the present invention have been illustrated and described in detail with reference to particular embodiments by way of example only and not by way of limitation. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that alternative implementations and various modifications to the disclosed embodiments are within the scope and contemplation of the present disclosure. Therefore it is intended that the invention be considered as limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

