---

title: Expandable user interface menu
abstract: Expandable user interface menu techniques are described, including displaying a menu having a menu item, receiving an input indicating selection of the menu item, and expanding the menu, based on one or more parameters associated with the menu item, to present a structure configured to receive another input associated with the menu item, the menu item remaining displayed while the menu is expanded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08689139&OS=08689139&RS=08689139
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08689139
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
Examples relate generally to software and user interfaces. More specifically expandable user interface menu techniques and implementations are described.

User interface menus often include menu items that use additional user input. For example a user interface menu such as one typically labeled File often includes a Save As . . . menu item which uses a user to enter a filename. Other examples of menu items that use additional user input include Open . . . Print . . . Find . . . and Replace . . . . The ellipses in a menu item typically signify that additional user input is used.

Conventionally techniques for gathering additional user input typically involve one or more popup windows or displays that disengage from an initiating user interface menu. For example when a user selects a Save As . . . menu item from a menu the menu typically disappears. Then a window pops up for the user to 1 enter a filename and 2 either confirms the user s action e.g. clicking on a Save button to confirm saving a file or cancels the user s action e.g. clicking on a Cancel button . In some situations such as selecting a Print . . . menu item to print a file a second third and more windows may appear or pop up to receive additional user input e.g. for specifying printer properties or customizing document formatting . However there are problems associated with conventional techniques.

In some conventional techniques a new popup window typically disrupts the user experience by visually interrupting a user s attention and mentally interrupting user focus on a given task. Conventional popup windows demand user interaction or intervention e.g. clicking on one or more buttons in a popup window to close it before allowing a user to return to the task at hand or to interact with previously popped up windows. For example if providing additional user input to a menu item results in several popup windows appearing in succession a user must close all displayed popup windows before being able to return to an application user interface. Further popup windows use up more space on a display screen than a user interface menu. Conventional displays become visually cluttered with popup windows.

Another problem with conventional techniques is the denial of the ability to access other menu items when a popup window appears. For example a menu of font sizes typically includes options for selecting font sizes and an Other Size . . . menu item for a user to manually input a numerical value to specify a font size not appearing in the menu. However when conventional solutions present a popup window to enter a font size the font size menu typically disappears preventing the selection of other items or options limiting or altogether eliminating further user input.

Thus a solution for providing user input without leaving the context of a given application without the limitations of conventional techniques is needed.

Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a process an apparatus a user interface or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical electronic or wireless communication links. In general operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order unless otherwise provided in the claims.

A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the examples has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.

In some examples the described techniques may be implemented as a computer program or application application or as a plug in module or sub component of another application. The described techniques may be implemented as software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. If implemented as software the described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming development scripting or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Adobe Integrated Runtime Adobe AIR ActionScript Flex Lingo Java Javascript Ajax Perl COBOL Fortran ADA XML MXML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. Design publishing and other types of applications such as Dreamweaver Shockwave Flash and Fireworks may also be used to implement the described techniques. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

Various examples of expandable user interface menus are described including menu items menu expansions input controls input data or other user interface elements. Devices computing systems user interfaces processes methods and programming instructions that implement various expandable user interface menus are also described. These and other techniques may be implemented in any applications including those executed on a mobile device that use one or more user interface menus. Various techniques for expandable user interface menu may be selectively implemented. In other examples different techniques may be implemented differently and are not limited to the examples provided and described.

Application window may occupy a portion of a display screen not shown or the entire display screen. An application may implement any number of menus including one or more submenus e.g. menu of . Here menu is shown near the top of application window . In some examples menu may be displayed anywhere in application window such as near the left side right side bottom or center of application window . Further menu may be moved to another location within overlapping or outside application window .

In some examples a menu such as menu may include any number of menu items such as one two five eight 11 18 25 40 59 or more. Here menu is shown with nine menu items and . Here menu items and are shown in a vertical arrangement in menu . In some examples not shown menu items and may be arranged differently such as horizontally following a curvature e.g. an arc or circle or in a combination of horizontal vertical groups e.g. arranging menu items vertically in each two or more groups and arranging the groups horizontally . In some examples users may be allowed to configure menu to add more menu items. Any of menu items and may be represented by a graphical element e.g. an image thumbnail or icon a textual element e.g. one or more characters symbols or words or a combination of both as shown. Here for illustration purposes menu and text associated with menu items and are shown in English. However text in any language or in more than one language may be used in an expandable user interface menu.

In some examples menu items may be referred to as action menu items i.e. an action or function is performed upon selection of a menu item . Menu item and the like may be referred to as customizable menu items or ellipses menu items. Ellipses menu items may receive additional user input before an action or function is performed. In some examples ellipses menu items i.e. menu items customized with additional user input may be indicated by including ellipses in the menu items. There may be other types of menu items. For example a menu item may upon selection cause the display of another menu i.e. a submenu such as some of menu items of . This type of menu items may be referred to as submenu menu items and may be indicated using a symbol e.g. an arrow as shown in the first four menu items . In some examples ellipses or submenu menu items may include other signifying symbols or no signifying symbol. Any menu item in a menu such as menu may be an action menu item ellipses menu item submenu menu item or another type of menu item. A menu e.g. menu may have any combination of different types of menu items including menu items of one or multiple types i.e. ellipses action submenu or other .

User interface elements such as menu and menu items and may be selected or activated via control pointer other controls not shown or other methods. For example a user may provide user input or data via one or more controls to select a menu e.g. menu submenu e.g. menu of menu item e.g. menu item or or another user interface element. As used herein the term control refers generally to any input interface or mechanism. A control may be physically implemented e.g. a key button mouse trackball touch screen tablet lever switch pen and others or virtually implemented such as a graphical user interface GUI control e.g. a pointer icon button box checkbox list box or another GUI widget or element . In some examples a control may be activated with a single action such as a single click or keystroke. In other examples activating a control may be performed with two or more actions e.g. two or more keystrokes clicks or combination . In some examples when a control is activated a signal is generated. For example activating a control may generate a signal to select a menu select a menu item expand a menu or interface an input control.

A menu may be activated or selected using any methods. For example a user may select or activate menu the Theme menu in application window by clicking control pointer on the word Theme by hovering control pointer over the word Theme or by pressing a key or combination of keys on a keyboard keyboard shortcut . The term hovering with respect to user interface refers generally to moving a control e.g. control pointer over a widget or item e.g. the word Theme or a menu item and keeping the control over such widget or item for a period of time e.g. a fraction of a second . Once activated menu is displayed showing menu items and for selection. In some examples the selected menu may be de selected or another menu may be selected.

A menu item may be selected for example when a control is activated such as control pointer . For example to select menu item control pointer may be clicked on menu item . In other examples selecting menu item may be achieved by hovering an element e.g. control pointer over menu item for a pre determined period of time such as a fraction of a second. In yet other examples menu item e.g. may be selected by other methods or controls such as a keyboard shortcut. Upon selecting an ellipses menu item such as menu item menu expands to allow additional user input.

In some examples one or more parameters associated with a menu item e.g. menu item may be used to determine various aspects of an expandable user interface menu. Parameters associated with a menu item may be the type of a menu item e.g. ellipses or action the position of a menu item in a menu the level of additional user input e.g. one piece of data or more than one piece of data the form of data e.g. text data selection list checkbox or other form and other properties. For example the size of menu portion may be based on the level of additional user input used to customize menu item . Here the level of additional user input as indicated by input controls uses Color checkboxes a Font list and a Font Size list. Further menu portion may be designed to use minimal amount of display space to minimize the covering of application window and to minimize interrupting a user s focus on the current task. For example the number and sizes of input controls may be used to determine a layout of menu portion .

In some examples the direction of expansion may be based on one or more parameters associated with menu item . For example menu portion may be expanded downwards in the direction shown by arrow . In other examples menu portion may be expanded substantially adjacent to menu in another direction not shown such as to the right of to the left of or above menu . Menu portion may be moved either independent of menu or in unison with menu . For example after menu portion is expanded and displayed a user may move menu portion to another location within overlapping or outside application window .

Input controls may be any controls designed to collect accept or otherwise gather user input. There may be any number of input controls such as one two three five eight 15 or more. In some examples input controls may be any combination of one or more checkboxes selection boxes dropdown lists selection lists buttons including radio buttons input fields widgets elements and other structures. In other example one or more input controls may be ellipses input controls i.e. causing another menu portion to be expanded with additional input controls . An input control may be accompanied by a description such as Color Font or Font Size. For example application window may be showing a menu for selecting font displaying themes. When menu portion is expanded with input controls input controls may include one or more Color checkboxes for selecting one or more theme colors a Font dropdown list of font names for selecting a font a Font Size list for selecting a font size a button to confirm any input entered e.g. Apply OK or Commit and a Cancel button to cancel and close menu portion . In some examples expanded menu portion may include fewer or more input controls than shown or other input controls. Further menu portion may include output controls for example providing instructions warnings descriptions or other information.

In some examples data entered via input controls may be associated with menu item which caused input controls to be presented. Input data via input controls may be any form of data such as text ASCII characters binary bits bytes words symbols objects or data of another form. Data entered via input controls may be stored for other uses or for used by other menu items or controls.

In some examples data entered via input controls may be used as default values by input controls in a later time. Having the ability to remember and reuse data values in a later time allows users to customize an ellipse menu item e.g. menu item . For example a user may customize menu item by using input controls to check a red color checkbox select a Times New Roman font or select a medium font size. The next time the user selects menu menu portion may expand to show input controls with a red color checkbox checked by default a Times New Roman font selected by default or a medium font size selected by default. The user may accept or change any of the default values which may further appear as default values in a subsequent activation of menu item .

Note that as users interact with one or more input controls other than pressing Cancel or Apply menu remains displayed along with menu portion . Menu items in menus e.g. menu items remains displayed and available for selection. For example after selecting menu item which causes menu portion to be expanded a user may have an option to select one of menu items . Keeping menu items and input controls available for selection at the same time preserves or otherwise retains the context of menu in its expanded state. Further having menu and menu portion opened may allow a user to continue to focus on the user s task without interruptions visual or mental.

With respect to menus in graphical user interface a submenu refers to a menu e.g. menu that is activated from another menu e.g. menu . A first level submenu refers to a submenu of a menu which itself is not a submenu. A second level submenu refers to a submenu of a first level submenu. Generally an N level submenu refers to a submenu of a N minus one level submenu. In some examples menu may be a submenu such as a first level submenu i.e. submenu of menu as shown. In other examples menu may be a second third fourth or a deeper level of submenu e.g. a submenu of a fourth level submenu .

In some examples one or more parameters associated with menu may be used to determine various aspects of an expandable user interface menu. Parameters associated with menu may be the size position and dimensions of the menu the number of menu items and the size position and dimensions of application window in which the menu is shown and other properties associated with menu . For example when an input is received for selecting menu item one or more parameters associated with menu are determined before expanding menu . In some examples if there is insufficient space for example between the bottom edge of menu and the bottom border of application window menu portion may be expanded to the right or left of menu instead of downwards as shown.

In some examples one or more selection may be performed by keyboard shortcuts. For example a user may use keyboard shortcuts to select the Format menu the Font Size menu or the Other . . . menu item which causes menu portion to be expanded and displayed with input controls . Here a text box input control may be interfaced by a keyboard or by a GUI control e.g. control pointer . For example a user may type in a number e.g. 86 to the text box input control or use a GUI control to interface the text box input control e.g. manipulate the arrows shown next to the input control to arrive at a desirable data e.g. 86 . To accept the entered data i.e. 86 a user may activate the Apply input control e.g. with a GUI control or keyboard shortcut . Again menu items may remain displayed providing a user an option of selecting one of the given font sizes presented i.e. displayed as menu items . Notice the small amount of display space used by menu portion to display input controls . Here parameters such as the number of input controls and the sizes of input controls may be used to determine a layout of menu portion to minimize or reduce any disruptions to the user experience.

In general a menu portion may be expanded substantially adjacent to a menu in any location or in any direction e.g. above below to the right to the left or near a corner of a menu . Again a menu a menu portion or both may be moved to any location such as any location within overlapping or outside an application window. In the examples provides not all features and properties are included. In other examples there may be additional features and properties. The above described user interface menus menu items menu portions input controls output controls input data or user interface elements may be varied in number design configuration implementation structure function or other aspects and are not limited to the examples shown and described.

In some examples when data is received by API module it may be transferred to one or more other modules e.g. logic module input module interface element manager GUI composition layout module rendering engine display output module repository and others using bus . For example after display output module has displayed one or more user interface elements e.g. a menu menu item or menu portion API module may receive from an input driver not shown input data for example to select a menu select a menu item move a menu or menu portion interact with an input control or otherwise interact with an interface element. The input data may be transferred to input module for interpretation e.g. determining which element is being interfaced or a parameter associated with a menu or menu item and transferred to display output module to display the interface element for example expanding a menu portion with one or more input controls.

In some examples logic module may be configured to control the data flow through bus and direct the services provided by API module input module interface element manager GUI composition layout module rendering engine display output module and repository in order to implement an expandable user interface menu according to various embodiments. For example data previous enter via one or more input controls may be stored in repository . In response to an input selecting a customizable menu item logic module may direct interface element manager to retrieve previously entered input control data from repository direct GUI composition layout module to layout a menu portion with one or more input controls set as default values to the previously entered input control data and direct display output module to display an expandable user interface menu with a menu portion expanded.

Application and the above described modules and elements may be varied in design function configuration implementation or other aspects and are not limited to the descriptions provided above.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus for transmitting a computer data signal.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution.

The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive.

