---

title: Apparatus and method for maintaining multi-component sample gas constituents in vapor phase during sample extraction and cooling
abstract: A dilution apparatus for diluting a gas sample. The apparatus includes a sample gas conduit having a sample gas inlet end and a diluted sample gas outlet end, and a sample gas flow restricting orifice disposed proximate the sample gas inlet end connected with the sample gas conduit and providing fluid communication between the exterior and the interior of the sample gas conduit. A diluted sample gas conduit is provided within the sample gas conduit having a mixing end with a mixing space inlet opening disposed proximate the sample gas inlet end, thereby forming an annular space between the sample gas conduit and the diluted sample gas conduit. The mixing end of the diluted sample gas conduit is disposed at a distance from the sample gas flow restricting orifice. A dilution gas source connected with the sample gas inlet end of the sample gas conduit is provided for introducing a dilution gas into the annular space, and a filter is provided for filtering the sample gas. The apparatus is particularly suited for diluting heated sample gases containing one or more condensable components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07712384&OS=07712384&RS=07712384
owner: Gas Technology Institute
number: 07712384
owner_city: Des Plaines
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070228
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. DE FC36 03G013175 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy.

This invention relates to a method and apparatus for diluting gaseous streams using a dilution gas. This invention further relates to a method and apparatus for maintaining multi component sample gas constituents of a gaseous process stream in vapor phase so as to enable on line characterization of these streams. This invention further relates to a method and apparatus for reducing the pressure and or temperature of a stream extracted from a high pressure and or high temperature industrial process so that condensable constituents in the unconditioned gas stream remain in the vapor phase and can be evaluated by standard process control instrumentation. Finally this invention relates to a specialized sample gas dilution apparatus that has been designed and modeled to provide uniform precise levels of sample gas dilution and or cooling.

Gaseous process streams such as those produced by synthesis gas production processes e.g. coal biomass and waste gasification typically contain a significant proportion of vapor phase hydrocarbon species with dew points at ambient pressures or above that range from ambient temperature to process temperature. These gaseous process streams are often obtained at elevated conditions of pressure and or temperature that exceed the operating limits of instruments available to perform on line characterizations of these streams. In cases where on line analysis is deemed necessary representative sample streams must be extracted from the process and their pressure and or temperature reduced to levels acceptable for these instruments. For some applications difficulties and uncertainties in modifying the sample streams to conditions acceptable to on line analyzers result in reliance on batch analyses performed on purposely condensed samples that are collected for remote laboratory analysis. Although batch sampling followed by remote analysis is often a simpler approach results are delayed and in cases where portions of the collected sample may be lost or chemically altered during collection storage and laboratory analysis procedures this approach also may not be quantitatively or qualitatively accurate.

One conventional method for conditioning high temperature and or high pressure gaseous process streams for analysis by analytical instrumentation is the use of syngas sampling trains in which depressurized syngas is passed through liquid impingers to trap and condense essentially all of the vapor phase components in a suitable liquid carrier for subsequent analysis. When impingers are employed the hot process gas may need to be cooled before it can be passed to the impinger train. Direct contact heat exchangers are typically employed for this purpose and directly precede the impinger train. They are designed so that effective intimate contact of the hot gas with cooled surfaces is maintained. The inherent weakness in this approach for syngas conditioning emerges when the gas is cooled to a temperature that is below the local dew point of one or more of its constituents the dew points of water and hydrocarbon vapors are primarily determined by their local partial pressure within a heat exchanger . At the moisture and hydrocarbon species concentrations commonly found in gasifier process streams transitions through these dew points are always encountered as the synthesis gas is cooled to ambient temperature. Thus when using this conventional approach some constituents of the process gas stream will always condense. When a dew point is reached the water and or at least a portion of the hydrocarbon species tars oils condense and collect on cool surfaces. This condensation can degrade the efficiency of the heat exchanger create cleanup maintenance and health issues and provide the opportunity for free radicals and acids in the condensed vapors to react and change in structure and concentration before analyses can be carried out. These tars and oils can also be challenging to remove from sample lines and traps.

For on line analyses of gaseous process streams a significant reduction of the temperature of an extracted gas sample stream is often required because the upper temperature limit of the on line instrument s is often well below the lowest process temperature. Likewise the pressure of the extracted sample stream may often be significantly reduced before it can be safely conveyed to the analyzer. Conventional pressure reducing valves or orifices are commonly used to reduce gas pressures and conventional contact heat exchangers are frequently used to reduce gas temperatures. However as a gas sample cools the potential for the condensation of vapor phase components increases particularly when interior portions of the heat exchanger are locally cooler than the condensation temperature for one or more of the constituents of the gas sample. As previously indicated depending on the process and the analytical instruments used to characterize the process the loss of vapor phase constituents by condensation can result in plugged sample lines delayed or inaccurate measurements and failure of the gas analyzers. For this reason syngas analyses have generally been limited to batch sample extraction methods that include built in traps or reservoirs for collecting condensed hydrocarbons with the attendant difficulties previously described.

Accordingly it is apparent that a better approach is needed to manage sample gas conditioning of gasification process streams to avoid condensation so that standard gas analyzers can be employed to quantify the various components of these gases.

It is thus one object of this invention to provide a method and apparatus for enabling the on line characterization of gaseous process streams such as synthesis gas syngas streams from gasification processes.

It is one object of this invention to provide a method and apparatus for maintaining condensable constituents of multi component sample gases in a vapor phase during sample extraction and cooling.

It is another object of this invention to provide a method and apparatus for managing the cooling and dilution of gas streams extracted from high temperature industrial process streams so that condensable constituents in the extracted stream are maintained as a gas while it is cooled and diluted to an arbitrary temperature lower than that of the process stream.

It is a further object of this invention to provide an apparatus for uniformly diluting and or cooling gaseous streams.

It is a further object of this invention to provide an apparatus for uniformly diluting and or cooling a gas stream extracted from a high temperature and or high pressure industrial process.

These and other objects of this invention are addressed by an apparatus for diluting a gas sample comprising a sample gas conduit having a sample gas inlet end and a diluted sample gas outlet end. An orifice plate having a sample gas flow restricting orifice disposed proximate the sample gas inlet end is connected with the sample gas conduit providing fluid communication between the exterior and the interior of the sample gas conduit. A diluted sample gas conduit is disposed within the sample gas conduit. The diluted sample gas conduit has a mixing end with a mixing space inlet opening disposed proximate the sample gas inlet end at a distance from the sample gas flow restricting orifice and forms an annular space between the sample gas conduit and the diluted sample gas conduit. Dilution gas means are provided for introducing a dilution gas into the annular space and filter means connected with the sample gas inlet end of the sample gas conduit are provided for filtering the heated sample gas. In accordance with one embodiment of this invention the filter means comprises a porous filter. A dedicated purge or calibration gas line is provided through which a purge or calibration gas may be directed to provide a calibration standard or spike and to clean the porous filter when particulate matter accumulates on the surface of the porous filter and an unacceptable pressure develops across the filter.

One of the significant benefits of providing a condensate free gas to a suite of gas analysis equipment is that it provides the ability to assess the performance of high temperature and or high pressure industrial processes on a real time basis so that process efficiency and economy can be suitably controlled. The apparatus is particularly suitable for operating in a high pressure environment although high differential pressures are not required for the apparatus to function properly. Only a pressure difference sufficient to force the particle free gas through the flow restricting orifice and maintain proper downstream flow is necessary. Likewise this apparatus can function equally well at high and low process temperatures. Of critical importance is the requirement of sufficient gas volume flow to ensure thorough turbulent mixing of dilution gas with a fully relaxed jet of depressurized undiluted gas. It should be noted that calibration gases may be used with or in place of dilution gas.

In operation a particle free gas at concentration C pressure P and temperature Tis expanded to a lower pressure through a flow restricting orifice of diameter D emerging at pressure Pand temperature T. The expanded particle free gas is mixed with a dilution gas at a temperature Tand pressure Pflowing through the annular space of the apparatus at flow rate Q. The dilution gas is turbulently mixed with the particle free gas that has passed through the flow restricting orifice creating a diluted gas concentration Cat pressure Pand temperature Tflowing at a rate Q.

The invention disclosed and claimed herein is an apparatus and method for enabling real time process control in high temperature and or high pressure processes where the evaluation of sample gases extracted from the processes has heretofore not been possible in real time due to the difficulty in conveying a representative gas sample from the process to an appropriate analyzer. Currently the only reliable approach that allows for the assessment of the effluent generated by high pressure and or high temperature gasification processes is through laborious batch sampling procedures that attempt to collect all of the condensable constituents in a stream extracted from the process for subsequent laboratory analysis. Because the analyses of the condensed gas constituents must occur some time after the samples are collected the opportunity exists for free radicals and acids in the condensed vapors to react and change in structure and concentration before analyses can be completed. These tars and oils can plug sampling lines and be challenging to remove from the sample lines and traps. Thus in order to manage high temperature and or high pressure industrial processes an approach is needed to provide for the real time characterization of the gaseous effluents generated by these processes.

It will however be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the apparatus and method of this invention may be applied to any gaseous stream requiring dilution and or cooling. In addition the apparatus of this invention may also be used for diluting gases at ambient process pressures or below by drawing a vacuum on the apparatus while managing the dilution gases.

As shown in by moving the diluted sample gas conduit inlet end away from flow restricting orifice tube disposed within diluted sample gas conduit may be inserted into the process and its inlet end may be positioned close to flow restricting orifice so that a sample of the undiluted sample gas that has been expanded to a much lower pressure P may be withdrawn. In accordance with one embodiment of this invention diluted sample gas tube having diluted sample gas tube inlet end is disposed within diluted sample gas conduit with its inlet end disposed downstream of mixing space for withdrawing a sample of diluted sample gas having concentration C. Samples of gas withdrawn through these tubes may be sent to mass spectrometers to measure the concentrations of various gas species. In accordance with one preferred embodiment of this invention tubes and are capillary tubes.

Connected with sample gas conduit inlet end in accordance with one embodiment of this invention is porous filter for removal of particles in the sample gas prior to introduction into sample gas conduit . In accordance with one preferred embodiment of this invention for use in high temperature applications porous filter is a passivated porous metal filter. In accordance with another preferred embodiment porous filter is an inert porous ceramic filter. As shown in in accordance with one embodiment of this invention porous filter forms a chamber around sample gas conduit inlet end . Purge calibration gas conduit having purge calibration gas outlet end in fluid communication with the chamber provides a purge and or calibration gas into the chamber as a means for cleaning porous filter and providing an entry point for calibration or spike gas in close proximity to the process. In particular short high pressure bursts of gas heated or cooled to process temperature may be directed through purge calibration gas conduit to clean the filter.

It will be apparent that the apparatus of this invention is a self contained dilution apparatus. Consequently a plurality of dilution apparatuses may be bundled to form aggregates of one or more apparatuses to create separate diluted gas streams. Such a bundle employing two dilution apparatuses is shown in .

Disposed within and connected with first stage diluted sample gas conduit downstream of and at a distance from first stage mixing space wall is a second stage orifice plate having a second stage flow restricting orifice which is axially aligned with the first stage flow restricting orifice . A second stage diluted sample gas conduit having a second stage diluted sample gas conduit inlet opening at a distance from second stage flow restricting orifice is disposed in first stage diluted sample gas conduit forming a second stage annular space between second stage diluted sample gas conduit and first stage diluted sample gas conduit through which dilution gas is introduced into the mixing space downstream of the second stage flow restricting orifice . A second stage mixing space wall having a second stage mixing orifice offset from the longitudinal axis of the apparatus is disposed within and connected with second stage diluted sample gas conduit at a distance from second stage diluted sample gas conduit inlet opening forming a second stage mixing space between the second stage mixing space wall and second stage diluted sample gas conduit inlet opening .

Disposed within and connected with second stage diluted sample gas conduit downstream of and at a distance from second stage mixing space wall is a third stage orifice plate having a third stage flow restricting orifice which is axially aligned with the first stage flow restricting orifice . A third stage diluted sample gas conduit having a third stage diluted sample gas conduit inlet opening at a distance from third stage flow restricting orifice is disposed in second stage diluted sample gas conduit forming a third stage annular space between third stage diluted sample gas conduit and second stage diluted sample gas conduit through which dilution gas is introduced into the mixing space downstream of the third stage flow restricting orifice . A third stage mixing space wall having a third stage mixing orifice offset from the longitudinal axis of the apparatus is disposed within and connected with third stage diluted sample gas conduit at a distance from third stage diluted sample gas conduit inlet opening forming a third stage mixing space between the third stage mixing space wall and third stage diluted sample gas conduit inlet opening .

As shown in in accordance with one embodiment of this invention a diluted sample gas withdrawal conduit is provided for withdrawal of a diluted sample gas sample at each dilution level. The withdrawal of the gas samples may be regulated by regulating valves respectively. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art for each stage through which the sample gas passes the pressure in each stage will be lower than the pressure in the preceding stage and the dilution level in each stage will be higher than the dilution level in the preceding stage.

The method for maintaining multi component sample gas constituents in a vapor phase during sample extraction and cooling in accordance with one embodiment of this invention comprises the essential steps of expansion of particle free undiluted process gas through an orifice thereby forming a reduced pressure undiluted process gas relaxation of the depressurized jet to approximate plug flow and complete turbulent mixing of the undiluted reduced pressure process gas with an inert diluting gas before being conveyed to a remotely situated suite of gas analysis instrumentation.

In environments in which contact of the walls and interior boundaries of the diluter assembly with undiluted gas can result in chemical reactions catalytic reactions or physical adsorption the interior surfaces of the apparatus may be coated with a thin inert film of silica such as that provided by a RESTEK SILCOSTEEL or SULFAINERT coating to prevent such effects. Typical materials from which the apparatus of this invention may be constructed include 316L and 310 series stainless steels and other high performance alloys including FeCrAlloy Haynes 260 and Inconel alloys. For low temperature applications with non reactive gases more inexpensive materials and methods of construction may be employed. In such cases some internal parts may be constructed from injection molded plastics or metals.

While in the foregoing specification this invention has been described in relation to certain preferred embodiments thereof and many details have been set forth for purpose of illustration it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention is susceptible to additional embodiments and that certain of the details described herein can be varied considerably without departing from the basic principles of the invention.

