---

title: System and method of delivering audio communications
abstract: A method of delivering an audio communication is disclosed and includes selectively delivering an audio message including a content portion and an advertising portion to a voice communication device. The audio message has a first available delivery format for live communication with a user of the voice communication device and a second available delivery format for communication with a voice mail system associated with the voice communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768756&OS=08768756&RS=08768756
owner: Unwired Nation, Inc.
number: 08768756
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 953 372 filed on Aug. 1 2007 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD OF DELIVERING AUDIO COMMUNICATIONS which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure is generally related to computer networks and to delivering audio communications.

As of May 2005 the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association CTIA estimated that there were 182 million wireless subscribers in the United States. Further the CTIA estimates that over 2.5 billion text messages are sent every month. Internet companies often use text messages to deliver notifications to mobile telephones via short messaging service SMS . Typically however text messaging is not secure does not provide guaranteed delivery is not free and is not sent in real time.

In addition text messaging is not a very efficient way for many content providers to interact with subscribers because content may change rapidly. Nonetheless audio communication may present certain challenges to content providers. For example many content providers utilize instant feedback to gauge the usability of their systems the desirability of their content and other aspects of their content services. Additionally if a call is routed to voice mail content and interactive options that are intended for a live call may never reach a subscriber. Accordingly there is a need for an improved system and method of communicating audio communications.

Referring to a particular embodiment of a system to deliver audio communications is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes an interactive voice platform that communicates with a plurality of content publishers . The content publishers can include e commerce providers financial service providers governmental entities social network providers entertainment content providers news providers weblog providers other content publishers or any combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment each of the content publishers can communicate with the interactive voice platform via one of a plurality of application programming interfaces .

Further the interactive voice platform communicates with a plurality of advertising networks . The advertising networks can include various vendor systems. In addition the interactive voice platform communicates with a plurality of subscriber voice enabled devices . The plurality of subscriber voice enabled devices can include for example one or more cellular phones one or more smart phones one or more personal data assistant PDA phones one or more voice enabled computers one or more other voice enabled devices or any combination thereof.

In a particular illustrative embodiment the interactive voice platform receives content from various content publishers via a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs associated with a content portal communicating with the interactive voice platform . The interactive voice platform can also receive from the content publishers user data rules for including the content in audio messages and selectable options to include with content. In addition the interactive voice platform receives advertising content from the advertising networks .

The interactive voice platform can select content to include with an audio message to a subscriber. The content can include e commerce content including but not limited to online auction content offline auction content financial content government content social networking content entertainment content including but not limited to sports content movie content showtime content celebrity content or any combination thereof news content weblog content or any combination thereof. Further content may include personal communications account status information e.g. regarding accounts with one or more content providers advertisers administrators of the interactive voice platform or subscriber device service providers messaging information or any combination thereof.

The interactive voice platform can select the content based on user data and notification rules received from the content publisher . The interactive voice platform identifies an advertising capacity related to the content such as a number of advertisements that can be included with the audio message such that the audio message does not exceed a certain amount of time. The interactive voice platform integrates the advertisement s with the selected content.

In a particular embodiment the interactive voice platform can place a call to the subscriber for whom the content is intended. The interactive voice platform can also place additional calls having substantially identical content and advertisements to additional subscribers. The interactive voice platform can detect whether the call is answered at the subscriber device or is routed to voice mail and the interactive voice platform selects one of a plurality of formats for the audio message based on its detection of a live call or voice mail. For example when the call is routed to voice mail the interactive voice platform selects a voice mail delivery format. Whereas when the call is answered the interactive voice platform selects a voice mail delivery format for the audio message.

When the interactive voice platform selects the voice mail delivery format the interactive voice platform records the audio message which includes at least the selected content and advertisement s . The content can include a content heading a content summary detailed content or any combination thereof. The interactive voice platform can also record selectable options provided by the content publisher. The options may include for example a call re triggering option a live lead transfer option a forwarding option other options or any combination thereof Selectable options can include voice activated options digital tone multiplex frequency DTMF activated options or any combination thereof.

The subscriber can retrieve the voice mail audio message by using a voice enabled subscriber device to call a voice mail system. The subscriber device receives the audio message recorded by the interactive voice system . In one embodiment the subscriber device outputs the advertising portion associated with the audio message and then outputs the content portion associated with the audio message. Additionally the subscriber device can output publisher selectable options. The subscriber can re trigger the call placed by the interactive voice platform by selecting a re trigger option. The subscriber device can send a call re triggering signal to the interactive voice platform such as a phone call a text message or other signal. The subscriber device can then receive a live call providing the audio message in a live call delivery format.

When the interactive voice platform selects a live call delivery format for an audio message the interactive voice platform can send an introduction and advertisement to the subscriber device . The content of the audio message can then be sent to the subscriber device . In a particular embodiment the subscriber can select an option to receive additional content such as additional levels of detail with respect to hierarchical content or additional portions of non hierarchical content. Examples of hierarchical and non hierarchical content are illustrated in . If additional content is selected the interactive voice platform can send the additional content to the subscriber device . Otherwise the interactive voice platform sends selectable options to the subscriber device . Selectable options can include voice selectable options e.g. interactive voice response IVR selectable options DTMF selectable options or any combination thereof.

Selectable options can include for example a selectable option to submit feedback via a website associated with the publisher of the content received with the audio message. If the interactive voice platform receives a selection of a feedback option the interactive voice platform can connect the subscriber device with the website of the publisher and the feedback can be formatted and posted at the website. In an illustrative embodiment the audio feedback can be converted to text posted at the website. Alternatively the audio feedback can be posted as a selectable audio file. In another example the audio feedback can be streamed in near real time to listeners via the website.

Other selectable options include a live lead transfer option or a forwarding option. If the interactive voice platform receives a selection of a live lead transfer option the interactive voice platform can connect the call with a customer service representative. Alternatively the interactive voice platform can notify the content publisher of the selection and the publisher can instruct a customer service representative to call the subscriber. If a forwarding option is selected the interactive voice platform can place a call having a substantially identical audio message to another subscriber or another contact of the subscriber receiving the original call.

In a particular embodiment the interactive voice platform can include an opt out option with a call. If the subscriber selects the opt out command the interactive voice platform can remove a subscriber account at the interactive voice platform such that the subscriber receives no further calls. Alternatively the interactive voice platform can send an instruction to the provider of the content provided with the call to remove an account related to the subscriber such that the subscriber receives no further calls having content of the particular publisher.

Referring to a second particular embodiment of a system to deliver audio communications is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes an interactive voice platform communicating with a plurality of subscriber devices . The interactive voice platform also communicates with a plurality of publishers which may include content publishers and advertising publishers.

In a particular embodiment a content publisher sends user data and one or more primary messages such as an introductory message or branding message related to the content publisher to the interactive voice platform . In addition the content publisher sends selectable interactive options a content payload and a voice mail message related to the content payload to the interactive voice platform . Moreover an advertising publisher sends a primary advertisement and a voice mail advertisement to the interactive voice platform .

In a particular embodiment the subscriber devices can send audio feedback to the publishers via the interactive voice platform . Further the subscriber devices can send session information to the publishers via the interactive voice platform . In an illustrative embodiment the subscriber devices can send user opt out information to the publishers via the interactive voice platform . For instance if an opt out selection is made via a subscriber device a signal corresponding to the selection can be sent to a corresponding publisher such that no further messages are sent from the publisher to the subscriber device .

Referring to particular embodiments of formats to deliver audio communications are illustrated. A call placed to a subscriber device from an interactive voice platform can include an audio message having a content portion and an advertising portion. The interactive voice platform can select a live format for the audio message after detecting a live call with a subscriber. Whereas the interactive voice platform can select a voice mail format for the audio message after detecting that the call has been routed to a voice mail system.

In an illustrative embodiment the live call format can include a greeting or call branding portion . Further the live call format can include an indication of sponsorship that identifies an advertiser associated with an advertisement that is included in the live call format . The advertisement can include a recorded advertisement that is played to a subscriber prior to content being communicated to the subscriber device. In another embodiment the advertisement can include a text portion or a video portion sent to the subscriber device prior to the content.

In a particular embodiment the content portion of the audio message can include hierarchical content having one or more overview portions . Each overview portion can include a heading such as a news headline blog title or other subject indication. The overview portion can also include a summary of the content such as a synopsis or incomplete portion of the content. Further the overview portion can include a control such as an interactive option that is selectable to receive one or more detailed versions of the content. In an illustrative non limiting embodiment the detailed version of the content may include one or more additional advertisements that are communicated to the subscriber device prior to the detailed content .

The detailed version can also include one or more controls to select user options such as controls to connect with a customer service representative to purchase a good or service. The controls can also include an option to communicate audio feedback back to the content publisher. For instance a selection of the audio feedback control can connect the subscriber with a publisher website. The subscriber can speak audio feedback into a subscriber device and the audio feedback can be provided via a website forum as a selectable audio file or as text converted from speech. Alternatively the audio feedback can be provided as live audio content such as via Internet radio or other live Internet broadcast.

The live call format can also include a closing portion which may include the call branding portion related to the content publisher. The live call format can also include an opt out option that is selectable to receive no further calls from the content publisher.

In an illustrative embodiment the voice mail format can include a voice mail greeting or call branding portion . Further the voice mail format can include an indication of sponsorship that identifies an advertiser associated with a non interactive voice mail advertisement that is included in the voice mail format . The non interactive voice mail advertisement can include a recorded advertisement that is played to a subscriber prior to voice mail content such as the voice mail content summary being communicated to the subscriber device.

The voice mail format can also include one or more interactive controls to select user options. In one embodiment the interactive controls can include instructions to re trigger a call such that the subscriber can interact with the live call format of the audio message. The controls can also include opt out instructions that are selectable or executable to receive no further calls from the content publisher.

In an illustrative non limiting embodiment each aspect of a call can be associated with a target amount of time. For example greeting call branding portions and closing call branding portions can be less than five seconds long. Further each advertisement can be less than ten seconds long. Each summary content object can be less than twenty seconds long including heading summary and control options . Detailed content portions can be less than two minutes long and detailed content objects can be less than two minutes fifteen seconds long including additional advertisements and control options . Additionally audio feedback can be limited to three minutes or another time suitable for posting feedback via a publisher website. An opt out option can be less than five seconds long.

In another illustrative embodiment content associated with a voice mail delivery format can be longer than content summaries associated with the live format delivery format because multiple levels of content detail might not be available via voice mail. For example a content summary can be less than thirty seconds whereas the summary associated with the live call delivery format may be less than ten seconds. Re triggering instructions and opt out instructions can each be less than ten seconds.

Referring to additional particular embodiments of formats to deliver audio communications are illustrated. A call placed to a subscriber device from an interactive voice platform can include an audio message having a content portion and an advertising portion. The interactive voice platform can select a live format for the audio message after detecting a live call with a subscriber. Whereas the interactive voice platform can select a voice mail format for the audio message after detecting that the call has been routed to a voice mail system.

In an illustrative embodiment the live call format can include a greeting or call branding portion . Further the live call format can include an indication of sponsorship that identifies an advertiser associated with an advertisement that is included in the live call format . The advertisement can include text video recorded audio or any combination thereof sent to the subscriber device prior to the content.

In a particular embodiment the content portion of the audio message can include non hierarchical content . Further the live call format of the audio message can include one or more controls each of which is selectable to execute or cause the execution of a selectable option. For example the control s can include an option to communicate audio feedback back to the content publisher. For instance a selection of the audio feedback control can connect the subscriber with a publisher website. The subscriber can speak audio feedback into a subscriber device and the audio feedback can be provided via a website forum as a selectable audio file or as text converted from speech. Alternatively the audio feedback can be provided as live audio content such as via Internet radio or other live Internet broadcast.

In another example the control s can include a forwarding option that is selectable to cause the interactive voice system to forward one or more portions of the audio message to another subscriber or to another contact of the subscriber currently receiving the audio message via the live call format .

The live call format can also include a closing portion which may include the call branding portion related to the content publisher. The live call format can also include an opt out option that is selectable to receive no further calls from the content publisher.

In an illustrative embodiment the voice mail format can include a voice mail greeting or call branding portion . Further the voice mail format can include an indication of sponsorship that identifies an advertiser associated with a non interactive voice mail advertisement that is included in the voice mail format . The non interactive voice mail advertisement can include a recorded advertisement that is played to a subscriber prior to voice mail content such as the voice mail content being communicated to the subscriber device. In one embodiment the voice mail content can be substantially identical to the live call content . In another embodiment the voice mail content can include aspects that reflect that the voice mail content is not being delivered via the live call format .

The voice mail format can also include one or more interactive controls to select user options. In one embodiment the interactive controls can include instructions to re trigger a call such that the subscriber can interact with the live call format of the audio message. The controls can also include opt out instructions that are selectable or executable to receive no further calls from the content publisher.

In an illustrative non limiting embodiment each aspect of a call can be associated with a target amount of time. For example greeting call branding portions and closing call branding portions can be less than five seconds long. Further each advertisement can be less than ten seconds long. Each content object can be less than two minutes long. Additionally audio feedback can be limited to three minutes or another time suitable for posting feedback via a publisher website. Forwarding options instructions can be less than thirty seconds long. An opt out option can be less than five seconds long. Re triggering instructions and opt out instructions can each be less than ten seconds.

Referring to a third particular embodiment of a system to deliver audio communications is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes an interactive voice platform system adapted to communicate with a plurality of remote systems via an Internet protocol IP network . Such remote systems can include content publisher systems such as electronic commerce systems financial systems government systems social network systems entertainment systems news systems weblog systems or any combination thereof. The remote systems can also include advertiser or vendor systems .

The interactive voice platform system is also adapted to communicate with a plurality of subscriber voice enabled devices such as the subscriber mobile phone and with at least one voice mail system via at least one mobile phone network such as a global system for mobile communication GSM network. In a particular embodiment the interactive voice platform system can be adapted to communicate with a provider of a service to the subscriber device such as a cellular provider associated with the mobile phone network . Additionally the interactive voice platform system can be adapted to communicate with a plurality of customer service call centers via a telephone network such as a public switched telephone network PSTN .

In a particular embodiment the interactive voice platform system can include a plurality of servers that communicate with each other. One or more of the plurality of servers can also communicate with an IP interface that is adapted to facilitate communication between the interactive voice platform system and the IP network . Each of the servers includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic. Further any number or combination of the modules described above can be stored and executed within a single processing element or multiple processing elements in communication with each other. In alternative embodiments each of the servers can be a processing element that is a server as described or a process performed by one or more network entities or components of the interactive voice platform system .

For instance the interactive voice platform system can include a call server that includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic . The call server memory can include an audio message module that is executable by the processing logic to select and integrate content and advertisements to produce audio messages. The audio message module can select content and advertisements according to rules or guidelines received from content publishers and advertisers according to rules associated with a user account or a combination thereof. In addition the call server memory can include a call place module that is executable by the processing logic to place calls to subscriber phones where the calls include audio messages having content and at least one advertisement. Calls can be placed according to rules received from content publishers according to rules associated with user accounts according to call placement rules maintained by the interactive voice platform system in response to selections of call re trigger options in response to selections of forward to friend options or any combination thereof.

Further the call server memory can include a delivery format module that is executable by the processing logic to select a delivery format for the audio message by determining whether a call is answered or routed to voice mail. Examples of delivery formats are illustrated in . The call server memory can also include an options module that is executable by the processing logic to select interactive options related to an audio message based on the delivery format and to communicate such options to the subscriber phone or to a voice mail system . Such options can include a live lead transfer option an audio feedback option an opt out option a caller trigger option a forward to friend option a one touch purchase option or any combination thereof.

In an illustrative embodiment the call server memory can include an interactive voice response IVR module and a digital tone multiplex frequency DTMF module that are executable by the processing logic to receive and process user selections of interactive options presented with an audio message. Additionally the call server memory can include a publisher communication module that is executable by the processing logic to communicate user selections of interactive options to a publisher associated with content included in an audio message. For example the publisher communication module can be executable by the processing logic to connect a subscriber phone with a publisher website in response to a selection of an audio feedback option. In another example the publisher communication module can be executable by the processing logic to notify a publisher of a selection of an opt out option by a subscriber.

In a particular embodiment the interactive voice platform system can include a fulfillment server that includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic . The memory can include a live lead module that is executable by the processing logic to connect a subscriber phone with one of a plurality of customer service call centers in response to a selection of a live lead option. The memory can also include a wireless access protocol WAP module that is executable by the processing logic to send text or other data to a subscriber phone in connection with advertising content or a purchase of a product or service. In an illustrative embodiment the memory can include a one touch module that is executable by the processing logic to send an order for a product or service to a customer call service center or publisher or advertiser system in response to a selection of a one touch option at a subscriber phone .

In a particular embodiment the interactive voice platform system can include an account server that includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic . The memory can include an account management module that is executable by the processing logic to create delete and modify accounts of subscribers receiving content via the interactive voice platform system . The memory can include a subscriber data store that is adapted to store contact data preferences content subscriptions and other account information related to subscribers. Further the memory can include a notification rules module that is adapted to store call placement rules designated by subscribers and that is accessible to the call server . In an illustrative embodiment the memory can include an analysis module that is executable by the processing logic to track user selections and behavior with respect to content advertisements or a combination thereof. The analysis module may also be executable by the processing logic to predict subscriber preferences and behavior.

In a particular embodiment the interactive voice platform system can include a content server that includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic . The memory includes a content portal module that is executable by the processing logic to provide a communications portal for content publisher systems and to receive content content selection rules content notification rules publisher selectable options or any combination thereof from the content publisher systems . In an illustrative embodiment the publisher systems can communicate with the portal via a plurality of content application programming interfaces APIs . The memory also includes a content store adapted to store content content selection rules content notification rules publisher selectable options or any combination thereof received from the content publisher systems .

In a particular embodiment the interactive voice platform system can include an ad server that includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic . The memory includes an ad portal module that is executable by the processing logic to provide a communications portal for advertiser or vendor systems and to receive advertisements ad selection rules advertiser fulfillment options or any combination thereof from the advertiser or vendor systems . The memory also includes an advertisement store adapted to store advertisements ad selection rules advertiser fulfillment options or any combination thereof received from the advertiser or vendor systems .

Referring to a particular embodiment of a method of delivering audio communications is illustrated. At block an interactive voice system selects content to include with an audio message to a subscriber. The interactive voice platform can select the content based on user data and notification rules received from a publisher of the content via an application programming interface of the interactive voice platform. Moving to block the interactive voice platform identifies an advertising capacity related to the content. In an illustrative embodiment the advertising capacity can indicate a number of advertisements that can be included with the audio message such that the audio message does not exceed a certain amount of time. Proceeding to block the interactive voice platform integrates the advertisement s with the selected content.

Continuing to block the interactive voice platform places a call to the subscriber for whom the content is intended. The interactive voice platform can also place additional calls having substantially identical content and advertisements to additional subscribers. Advancing to block the interactive voice platform detects whether the call is answered at the subscriber device or routed to voice mail. Further at block the interactive voice platform selects a delivery format for the audio message based on its detection of a live call or voice mail.

When the interactive voice platform selects the voice mail delivery format the method moves to block and the interactive voice platform records the audio message which includes at least the selected content and advertisement s . The content can include a content heading content summary detailed content or any combination thereof. Proceeding to block the interactive voice platform records selectable options provided by the content publisher. The options may include for example a call re triggering option a live lead transfer option other options or any combination thereof.

Continuing to decision node the interactive voice platform determines whether it has received a signal from a subscriber device indicating a selection of a call re triggering option included with the voice mail. If the interactive voice platform has received a signal indicating a selection of a call re triggering option the method returns to block and the interactive voice platform places another call to the subscriber device. Conversely if the interactive voice platform has not received a signal indicating a selection of a call re triggering option the method can advance to decision .

Returning to block when the interactive voice platform selects a live call delivery format the method moves to block and the interactive voice platform can send an introduction and advertisement to the subscriber device. Proceeding to block the content of the audio message can be sent to the subscriber device. In a particular embodiment the method can continue to decision node and the interactive audio system can determine whether it has received a selection of an option to receive additional content such as additional levels of detail with respect to hierarchical content or additional portions of non hierarchical content. If a selection to receive additional content is received the method returns to block and the interactive voice platform sends the additional content to the subscriber device. On the other hand if a selection to receive additional content is not received the method advances to block and the interactive voice system sends selectable options to the subscriber device.

For example the options can include a selectable option to submit feedback via a website associated with the publisher of the content. At decision node the interactive voice platform can determine whether it has received a selection of such an option. If so the method moves to block and the interactive voice platform can connect the subscriber device with the website of the publisher. The method then terminates at . Returning to decision node if the interactive voice platform has not received a selection of an option to submit feedback the method advances to decision node .

At decision node the interactive voice platform determines whether it has received selections of other options such as a live lead transfer option or a forwarding option. If the interactive voice platform determines that it has received a selection of another option the method can move to block and the interactive voice platform can execute the option. For example the interactive voice platform can connect the call with a customer service representative or place a call having a substantially identical audio message to another subscriber or contact of the subscriber.

Conversely if the interactive voice platform determines that it has not received a selection of any other option the method proceeds to decision node and the interactive voice platform determines whether it has received a selection of an opt out command. If the interactive voice platform determines that it has received a selection of an opt out command the method continues to block and the interactive voice platform can remove a subscriber account at the interactive voice platform such that the subscriber receives no further calls. Alternatively the interactive voice platform can send an instruction to the provider of the content provided with the call to remove an account related to the subscriber such that the subscriber receives no further calls having content of the particular publisher. The method terminates at .

Referring to a second particular embodiment of a method of delivering audio communications is illustrated. At block a voice enabled subscriber device calls a voice mail system after receiving inputs from a user to retrieve voice mail. Moving to block the subscriber device receives an audio message recorded by an interactive voice system. The audio message includes an advertising portion and a content portion. Moving to block the subscriber device outputs the advertising portion associated with the audio message. Proceeding to block the subscriber device outputs the content portion associated with the audio message. Continuing to block the subscriber device outputs publisher selectable options.

Advancing to decision node the subscriber device determines whether it has received an input corresponding to a re trigger option. If the subscriber device determines that it has not received such an input the method can proceed to decision node . Whereas if the subscriber device determines that it has received an input corresponding to a re trigger option the method moves to block and the subscriber device sends a call re triggering signal to the interactive voice platform. The call re triggering signal can be a phone call a text message or other signal. Proceeding to block the subscriber device receives a live call providing the audio message in a live call delivery format. The live call delivery format can include an option to submit feedback to the publisher via a website.

Continuing to decision node the subscriber device determines whether it has received an input corresponding to an option to submit feedback. If the subscriber device determines that it has received such an input the method advances to block the subscriber device can connect with the publisher website via the interactive voice platform. Further the subscriber device can send audio feedback to the publisher website at block .

Returning to decision node if the subscriber device determines that it has not received an input corresponding to an option to submit feedback the method moves to decision node and the subscriber device can determine whether it has received an input corresponding to an opt out option. If the subscriber device determines that it has received an input corresponding to an opt out option the method continues to block and the subscriber device sends a signal corresponding to the opt out option to the interactive voice platform. The method terminates at .

Referring to a third particular embodiment of a method of delivering audio communications is illustrated. At block a voice enabled subscriber device receives and accepts a call from an interactive voice system. The call includes an audio message having an advertising portion and a content portion. Moving to block the subscriber device outputs the advertising portion associated with the audio message. Proceeding to block the subscriber device outputs the content portion associated with the audio message. Continuing to block the subscriber device outputs publisher selectable options.

Advancing to decision node the subscriber device determines whether it has received an input corresponding to an option to submit feedback. If the subscriber device determines that it has received such an input the method advances to block the subscriber device can connect with the publisher website via the interactive voice platform. Further the subscriber device can send audio feedback to the publisher website at block . The method can then terminate at .

Returning to decision node if the subscriber device determines that it has not received an input corresponding to an option to submit feedback the method moves to decision node and the subscriber device can determine whether it has received an input corresponding to a live lead transfer option. If the subscriber device determines that it has received an input corresponding to a live lead transfer option the method continues to block and the subscriber device can call or otherwise be connected with a customer service representative of the publisher or an advertiser. The method can then terminate at .

Returning to decision node if the subscriber device determines that it has not received an input corresponding to a live lead transfer option the method can proceed to decision node and the subscriber device can determine whether it has received an input corresponding to an opt out option. If the subscriber device determines that it has received an input corresponding to an opt out option the method continues to block and the subscriber device sends a signal corresponding to the opt out option to the interactive voice platform. The method terminates at .

Referring to a fourth particular embodiment of a method of delivering audio communications is illustrated. At block a content publisher system sends content and selectable options to an interactive voice system via a portal that may include one or more application programming interfaces. Moving to decision node the content publisher system can determine whether it has received data indicating that the interactive voice system has received a signal indicating that a subscriber device is going to send feedback to the content publisher system.

If the content publisher system determines that it has received such data the method moves to block and the content publisher system connects to the subscriber device. Proceeding to block the content publisher system receives audio feedback from the subscriber device. Continuing to block the content publisher system can format and post the feedback at a website. For instance the content publisher system can convert speech associated with the audio feedback to text and post the text at the website. Alternatively the content publisher system can record audio feedback to an audio file and post the selectable audio file at the website. Further the content publisher system can stream the audio feedback in near real time to the website.

Returning to decision node if the content publisher system determines that it has not received data indicating that a subscriber device is going to send feedback to the content publisher system the method advances to decision node and the content publisher system determines whether it has received data from the interactive voice system indicating that a live lead transfer option has been selected at a subscriber device. If such data is not received the method then proceeds to decision node . Whereas if such data is received the method moves to block and the content publisher system connects the subscriber device to a customer service representative.

Continuing to decision node the content publisher system determines whether it has received data from the interactive voice system indicating that an opt out option has been selected at a subscriber device. If the content publisher system determines that it has received data from the interactive voice system indicating that an opt out option has been selected at a subscriber device the method advances to block and the content publisher system can remove an account associated with the subscriber. The method can then return to decision node and continue.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosed embodiments are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be reduced. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments that fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

