---

title: Methods and systems for use of an acoustic doppler current profiler for measurement of compact jets
abstract: A method is provided for improving horizontal spatial resolution of a flow field in compact jet-like current features so as to quantify the axial velocity in the cross section of a compact jet using an Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler (ADCP). The ADCP is a four-beam, Janus-type ADCP having beams aligned so that each of the beams is at an angle of about 20° to 30° to vertical and at 45° to the fore and aft axis of the vessel, such that two beams point at 45° to forward and two pointing 45° to aft. The measurements from each range bin of the aft-facing beams are combined with the previously measured samples from the corresponding forward-facing beams at the same position along the vessel track.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07420875&OS=07420875&RS=07420875
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07420875
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070625
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to Doppler velocity measurements. More particularly the present invention relates to Doppler current profiler methods and systems that combine measurements from different instances in time from a moving vehicle in order to establish measurements in the same measurement plane.

It is known that acoustic Doppler current profilers ADCPs are used to measure profiles of ocean currents. One common ADCP configuration is the so called four beam Janus configuration having two pairs of opposed transducers. illustrates a typical prior art ADCP having four transducers . The transducers are arranged such that opposing pairs of transducers are centered at 20 or 30 to the axis of the instrument and 40 or 60 to one another.

Each of the acoustic beams measures the Doppler shift of backscattered sound. If the sound scattering particles move with the water then the Doppler shift of the backscattered sound from each range cell will be proportional to the radial water velocity or the water velocity component in each range cell that is parallel to the acoustic beam. As used herein and shown in a range cell is a discrete volume or cell of water at which Doppler measurements are taken. As is known the distance or range to the cell will be a function of the elapsed time from when the sound pulse beam leaves the ADCP to when the backscattered sound is received.

When installed on a vessel the beams are normally aligned so that each of the beams is at a small angle usually 20 30 to vertical and each is at 450 to the fore and aft axis of the vessel with two beams pointing at 45 to forward and two pointing 45 to aft. In the standard processing for the ADCP radial velocity measurements from the four beams are combined using a trigonometric transformation to compute an orthogonal three component velocity vector from the four non orthogonal radial velocities. This procedure is repeated for each of the range cells to compute a time series of the velocity profiles of the two components of horizontal velocity and the vertical velocity.

Some ocean currents are known to be relatively compact or limited in horizontal extent in one direction but also relatively steady and coherent or slowly varying in the other horizontal direction. Such jet like flows are commonly found in equatorial current systems and western boundary currents such as the Gulf Stream or tidal flows involving topographic features such as flows through straits or over sills. Although measurements from each of the four beams of the Janus ADCP are essentially simultaneous each of the four beams measures water velocity at a different location in the horizontal plane because of the angular divergence of the acoustic beams. In the conventional configuration the beam separation increases linearly with distance to the range cell. As a result of this divergence horizontal variations in the orthogonal velocity components with length scales on the order of the beam separation or less cannot be resolved.

It is therefore a general purpose and a primary object of the invention to improve the horizontal spatial resolution of cross track velocity measurements in a measurement plane perpendicular to the direction of vessel movement.

It is a further object of the present invention to use the improved cross track velocity measurement to provide high resolution descriptions of the flow field of compact jet like current features in the measurement plane so as to quantify the distribution of axial velocity in the cross section of a compact jet using an ADCP.

These and other objects of the present invention are accomplished by providing a four beam Janus type ADCP wherein the measurements from each range bin of the aft facing beams is combined with the previously measured sample from the corresponding forward facing beams at the same geographic position along the vessel track.

In one embodiment a method of measuring compact jet flow fields in a medium includes moving an energy beam pulse generator through the medium along a path at a velocity generating forward facing energy beam pulses and aft facing energy beam pulses measuring Doppler shift readings for backscattered energy from the forward facing energy beam pulses and the aft facing energy beam pulses at range cells along the path combining for each range cell a first Doppler shift reading from a forward facing energy beam pulse and a second Doppler shift reading from an aft facing energy beam pulse the second Doppler shift reading being taken at a time delay equal to a distance divided by the velocity the distance being taken at any one time as that between the forward facing energy beam pulse and the aft facing energy beam pulse along a line parallel to the path and passing through the range cell.

In one aspect of the present invention the method includes performing coordinate transformations to convert the combined Doppler shift readings into orthogonal velocities which include a velocity component along the path. The forward facing energy beam pulses and the aft facing energy beam pulses may be generated at 90 to one another and pairs of forward facing energy beam pulses and pairs of aft facing energy beam pulses may be generated at angles between 20 and 30 degrees from vertical. The distance may be determined by the relationship x 2Rsin cos 45 1 where R is a range from the generator to the irange cell and is the angle between the energy beam pulse and vertical. The medium may be water and the energy beam pulses may be acoustic or the energy pulses may be electromagnetic in any electromagnetically transparent medium.

In another aspect of the present invention the method includes generating the forward facing energy beam pulses and the aft facing energy beam pulses at 90 to one another.

In yet another aspect of the present invention the method includes generating pairs of forward facing energy beam pulses and pairs of aft facing energy beam pulses the pairs being generated at angles between 20 and 30 degrees from vertical. The forward facing energy beam pulses and the aft facing energy beam pulses may be at 90 to one another and the distance may be determined by the relationship x 2R sin cos 45 2 where R is a range from the generator to the range cell and is the angle between the energy beam pulse and the vertical.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method for obtaining descriptions of a flow field in compact jet like current features includes providing a Janus type acoustic Doppler current profiler generating a forward facing acoustic beam from the profiler obtaining first Doppler shift readings for a range cell of interest that is in a vertical measurement plane for a distance x 2 from the profiler moving the profiler at a speed U in a direction perpendicular to and toward the measurement plane at a later time t Ax U generating an aft facing beam from the profiler obtaining second Doppler shift readings in the measurement plane for the range cell of interest and combining the first and second Doppler shift readings to obtain orthogonal velocity components in the measurement plane and perpendicular to the measurement plane.

In one aspect of the present invention the method includes converting the first and second Doppler shift readings to radial velocities along the beams and performing coordinate transformations to convert the radial velocities into the orthogonal velocity components.

In another aspect of the present invention the method includes generating pairs of forward facing acoustic beams and pairs of aft facing acoustic beams at angles between 20 and 30 degrees from vertical and generating the forward facing acoustic beams and the aft facing acoustic beams at 90 to one another. The distance may be determined by the relationship x 2R sin cos 45 3 where R is a range from the profiler to the range cell of interest and is the angle between the acoustic beams and the vertical.

To provide an overall understanding certain illustrative embodiments will now be described however it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the systems and methods described herein can be adapted and modified to provide systems and methods for other suitable applications and that other additions and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the systems and methods described herein.

Unless otherwise specified the illustrated embodiments can be understood as providing exemplary features of varying detail and therefore unless otherwise specified features components modules and or aspects of the illustrations can be otherwise combined separated interchanged and or rearranged without departing from the disclosed systems or methods. Additionally the shapes and sizes of components and the order of actions steps and or blocks shown in the diagrams are also exemplary and unless otherwise specified can be altered without affecting the disclosed systems or methods.

Referring now to there is shown an illustration of an acoustic Doppler Current Profiler ADCP system mounted on a vessel and taking measurements at two positions a and b along movement track of a vessel . For ease of reference position a on the left of the track as shown in will have reference numbers denoted with an a while position b on the right of the track will have reference numbers denoted with a b . It will be understood that vessel illustrate the same vessel at different times along the track and accordingly vessel is indicated in phantom.

For the direction of motion illustrated by the arrow of track position a will be before position b in time. At each position four acoustic beams from ADCP system are used to obtain velocity measurements. For additional ease of reference the aft facing acoustic beams are denoted as Aa Ab respectively and forward facing beams are denoted Fa Fb respectively. For illustrative purposes and ease of reference vessel is illustrated in in the shape of a marine vessel and system is described as using acoustic beams. However it may be understood that vessel may be any type of vessel traveling through a medium and that other than acoustic beams may be used.

In certain specific applications it is desirable to obtain descriptions of the flow field in compact jet like current features. Current ADCP systems lack the horizontal spatial resolution needed to adequately describe such features. The limitation on horizontal resolution of current ADCP systems can be overcome by combining measurements from the four beams from the same location rather than from the same time. If one navigates the vessel with the ADCP to traverse these compact jets in the direction perpendicular to the principle flow direction one may better resolve the cross section of these features using beam combinations from collocated beam measurements. The forward facing beams are separated from the aft facing beams by a distance along the vessel s track Axi for the irange cell x 2Rsin cos 4 where Ris the slant range to the irange cell and is the angle between the acoustic beam and vertical. In equation 4 a denotes the angle between the forward and aft facing beams. For a Janus type ADCP in the orientation shown in the figure 45 . For illustrative purposes the remaining equations will assume the use of the Janus type ADCP. However it will be understood that the angle between the forward and aft facing beams may be varied.

For a vessel traveling on a straight track at speed U the aft beams will cross the same position along the vessel track later than the forward beams by a time difference 

Thus to achieve a collocated velocity solution for the horizontal velocity in the direction perpendicular to the vessel track the forward beams would be combined with the aft beams that were sampled tlater with a different time lag for each range cell using the coordinate transformation that converts the four radial velocities into three orthogonal velocities. This processing scheme improves the horizontal resolution of jet like features in the ocean under the conditions described above.

At a time t x U later with vessel at the second position ADCP generates aft facing beams Ab and obtains Doppler shift readings for Ab in the measurement plane for the same range cell of interest. The readings from the forward facing beams Fa obtained at are combined with those from the aft facing beams Ab obtained at . Using standard geometric relations for coordinate transformations the four radial velocities are converted into three orthogonal velocities including velocities within the measurement plane and a velocity perpendicular to the measurement plane. For example the velocity component perpendicular to the measurement plane Vp of a radial velocity Vr can be obtained by

While a preferred embodiment of methods and systems obtaining high resolution descriptions of a flow field in compact jet like current features has been described in detail above various modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. As an example the methods and systems may employ other than four beams and may be other than a Janus type ADCP. Also the method may be employed in obtaining descriptions of flow fields in other types of media wherein other forms of energy beams besides acoustic beams may be used. For example optical transducers generating light or laser beams may be preferred in measuring movement of pollutants in the atmosphere. It is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise and as described above.

