---

title: Composite case armor for jet engine fan case containment
abstract: A gas turbine fan blade containment assembly includes a fan case having an inner surface surrounding a jet engine fan and an outer surface. Mounted on the inner surface and across a blade containing region of the fan case is a load spreader layer for initially receiving a point load from a fan blade release (a “blade-out event”). A band layer is mounted to an outer surface of the fan case for carrying at least a portion of a hoop tensile load on the fan case resulting from the blade-out event, and separator film layer is mounted between the outer surface of the fan case and the band layer to retard the formation of stress concentrations in the band layer. In one embodiment, the load spreader layer includes a plurality of circumferentially-arrayed load spreader layer segments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08016543&OS=08016543&RS=08016543
owner: 
number: 08016543
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070402
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms Contract No. NAS 3 02160 awarded to A P Technology Inc. by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

This invention relates to gas turbine jet engines and more particularly to fan case systems for containment of gas turbine jet engines during a blade out event.

In rare instances one or more of the blades in the jet engine may be caused to release for example as a result of the ingestion of a foreign object. In such an event the released fan blade must be contained so as not to penetrate the fan case . In addition the fan case must retain its structural integrity while the jet engine shuts down in order to prevent further potentially catastrophic damage. Under these circumstances a high strength fan containment case becomes critically necessary.

The mechanisms of fan blade release are further illustrated with reference to . presents a cut away sectional view of the fan containment case along the lines of . Blades are shown at the intake side of the case . presents a front view of the fan containment case looking aft down a longitudinal axis defined by fan hub of the engine at which the blades are secured.

During normal operation of the jet engine the blades rotate around the fan hub . Due to the engine rotation centrifugal forces are generated on each blade that is supported by the fan hub . During a blade out event blade as shown in disengages from the fan hub to become a pointed projectile which can impact the interior of the fan case and cause the generation of a point load at the location of impact. As illustrated in with the dislodging of blade a hoop tensile load is generated at the area of impact of the blade . The resulting point load at the interior of the fan case also results in a distortion in the symmetry of fan case as shown by the displacement in the case of .

Two approaches for containing a released fan blade within the fan case have been successfully used previously. In a first approach the softwall fan case a metal casing is over wound with dry aramid fibers. A broken blade is allowed to pierce and pass through the metal layer where it is stopped and contained within the external aramid wrap. In the second approach the hardwall fan case a single metal hardwall casing is designed to reflect the broken blade back into the engine. The hardwall approach enables designers to improve engine aerodynamics by building a fan case with a smaller radial envelope since there is no dead space required for absorbing the broken blade. However hard wall fan cases tend to be comparatively heavy and still maintain some risk that the blade may pass completely through the fan case.

Accordingly it would be desirable to overcome the drawbacks of prior art methods used for containing fan blades in jet engines during blade out events.

In the present invention a fan blade containment assembly for a gas turbine engine includes a fan case having an inner surface for surrounding a jet engine fan mounted for rotation about an engine axis and an outer surface. Mounted on the inner surface and across a circumferentially and axially extending blade containing region of the fan case are one or more load spreader layers. In the event that one or more of the fan blades releases a blade out event each load spreader layer acts as a point load spreader to isolate and distribute a point load generated on the load spreader layer by a released fan blade to the fan case. In addition the load spreader layer acts to mitigate cutting and or gouging of the inner surface of the fan case that may otherwise be caused by sharp features on the released fan blade. Each load spreader layer may be made from a wide variety of suitable materials including for example fiber reinforced polymers non reinforced polymers ceramics and metals.

The fan blade containment assembly may further include one or more band layers mounted to an outer surface of the fan case and extending across the blade containing region. Each band layer is capable of carrying at least a portion of a hoop tensile load on the fan case that results from a blade out event thereby enabling the strength cost and thickness of individual load spreader segments to be further reduced. The band layers may be made from a wide variety of suitable materials including for example fiber reinforced polymers carbon braid cloth fiber or triaxial braid including carbon fibers quartz fibers or glass fibers.

The fan blade containment assembly including one or more band layers may further include a separator film layer mounted between the outer surface of the fan case and the band layers. The separator film layer acts to retard the formation of stress concentrations in the band layer as a result of the blade out event and may be made for example from a fluoropolymer such as polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE .

In one embodiment of the present invention the load spreader layer is configured within the blade containing region as a plurality of circumferentially arrayed load spreader layer segments the plurality of segments defining a plurality of gaps between ends of adjacent ones of the plurality of load spreader segments. In another embodiment the load spreader layer is configured as a single circumferentially continuous structure rather than as a plurality of circumferentially arrayed segments.

In embodiments of the present invention having more than one load spreader layer or more than one band layer the individual layers may be formed from different materials to meet particular performance requirements. For example in an embodiment having first and second load spreader layers the first load spreader layer may be formed from a polymer or polycarbonate material and the second load spreader segments may be formed from a steel or ceramic material. In a fan blade containment assembly having at least two layers of load spreader segments the segment layers may be positioned so that ends of segments in one layer lie along the arcuate lengths of segments in another layer.

In the drawings like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several depicted views.

Referring now to there is shown an exemplary portion of a fan containment case according to principles of the present invention. The fan case includes three generally concentric layers and that effectively and efficiently reinforce the fan case to accommodate loads resulting from blade out events.

The first layer comprises a load spreader layer. The load spreader layer operates to distribute a point load generated by the liberated pointed projectile blade of as it strikes the load spreader layer into the second layer . In addition the load spreader layer acts to mitigate cutting and or gouging of an inner surface of the second layer that may otherwise be caused by sharp features on the released blade.

By distributing the point load into the second layer and mitigating cutting and or gouging of the second layer at the impact location the stress concentration in the second layer may be diminished at the impact location thus enabling the second layer to more easily carry the impact load of a projectile blade . First layer can be produced from a variety of materials including conventional fiber reinforced or non reinforced polymers ceramic or metals for example stainless steel and other ductile metals with high impact strength as permitted according to cost and weight requirements.

The second layer defines a casing portion of the fan casing which may be produced for example from a conventional fiber reinforced polymer FRP . The third or band layer defines a band surrounding the fan casing portion and may also be produced from a FRP. The third layer encapsulates the first and second layers and and is selected to have strength and stiffness properties in accordance with the energy absorbing needs of the containment system.

Alternatively one or more of layers and may be produced from a FRP braided material. A single selected braid material can be used in each of layers or different types of braid may be used in each layer. In addition a fiber reinforcement including braid and other types of reinforcement such as cloth fiber can be symmetrically distributed for example in all directions on the layers and around the circumference of the fan case along a longitudinal axis backward from the hub or asymmetrically distributed along the same or other directions. A suitable reinforced braid may include carbon fiber quartz fiber or glass fiber in an equiaxed braid having fibers arranged in at least three different fiber directions for example 0 degrees and 60 degrees .

In addition a fourth or separator film layer may be applied as film separating the second and third layers and can be produced for example from a fluoropolymer such as PTFE. Separator film layer may act for example to discourage the formation of stress concentrations in the third layer at an impact location. As in the case of layers and specifications for separator film layer will vary in accordance with the specifications of the fan case as dictated for example by particular performance weight and cost requirements and therefore do not limit the scope of the present invention.

Referring next to there is shown an exemplary portion of another fan containment case according to principles of the present invention. As illustrated in the fan case once again includes three generally concentric layers and that effectively and efficiently reinforce the fan case to accommodate loads resulting from blade out events. However in contrast to the fan case of the load spreader layer is not formed as a continuous ring but rather as a series of distinct circumferentially arrayed load spreader segments . Typically the load spreader layer may include between 2 and 14 distinct segments. In the example illustrated by twelve segments define the load spreader layer .

The segmentation of load spreader layer into load spreader segments prevents the accumulation of hoop tensile loads in the load spreader layer because generated loads are contained within the individual segment or segments that are directly impacted by the liberated blade of rather than being transferred around the inner perimeter of the case as would be the case for load spreader layer of . By preventing the transfer and accumulation of hoop tensile loads in the segmented layer the load spreader segments may for example be produced from a less ductile material than materials typically selected to produce the load spreader layer of

The inventors of the present invention have found that canting the ends of the individual segments helps to reduce the probability that a liberated blade as illustrated in directly reaches the second layer by striking a point between and at the ends of load spreader segments as well as the probability that the liberated blade striking a load spreader segment at an end of the segment will dislodge it. Consistent with the principles of the present invention the ends of segments may be canted at any angle greater than 0 degrees and less than 90 degrees and more preferably at angles ranging from 30 to 50 degrees.

Referring now to there is shown another exemplary portion of a fan containment case according to principles of the present invention. In two load spreader layers are applied to the fan case . As a result the fan case of includes five generally concentric layers and that reinforce the fan case to accommodate loads resulting from blade out events. Alternatively one or more of these layers may be omitted for example layers and or additional layers may be added for example a third load spreader layer applied on the interior circumference of load spreader layer according to particular cost weight and performance requirements for the fan case .

Referring now to one more example is shown providing an exemplary portion of a fan case according to principles of the present invention. In the fan case of load spreader layers are respectively provided as circumferentially arrayed load spreader segments . Load spreader layers are arranged so that ends of the load spreader segments in load spreader layer overlap load spreader segments in load spreader layer . This arrangement limits the probability that a liberated blade will pass through both load spreader layers to strike second layer .

As shown in the segments of the inner layer are positioned such that the ends of the segments lie at points along the arcuate lengths of the segments . As a result spaces between the underlying segments are effectively obstructed by overlying segments and spaces between the overlying segments are effectively backed by the underlying segments . In this manner the liberated blade must strike at least one of a load spreader segment or along its arcuate length thereby distributing the point load to the struck load spreader segment before it reaches the second layer .

In the configuration illustrated by segments are symmetrically positioned with respect to segments such that spaces between the segments are essentially located at the center of the arcuate lengths of the segments . In alternative embodiments the ends of segments may be selected to be located at any point along the arcuate length of segments as long as the selected locations cause the spaces between the segments to be obstructed by segments

In the configuration shown in and layers and may be constructed of the same or of different materials. For example layer which is closer to the blades than layer may be constructed using a relatively stiff material such as steel or ceramic. A softer material may then be selected for layer such as a polymer or polycarbonate.

In the configuration illustrated by the spacing in between adjacent load spreaders in layers can be as small for example as 0.015 inches and may vary within each of the layers and between the layers . The number design and dimensions of the load spreader segments within layer and or segments within layer as well as the materials used to produce the load spreader segments will vary according to product specifications providing performance weight and cost requirements.

As previously noted the second layer as illustrated in and can be constructed from a variety of materials for example including a conventional FRP material to form the base of the fan case . Alternatively the second layer may be constructed from a braided FRP or other similar material. The specifications for layer will vary according to particular performance weight and cost requirements and therefore do not limit the scope of the present invention.

As shown in a third layer is applied to the fan case in proximity to the blade containing region. As previously noted third layer can be produced from a variety of materials including for example conventional FRP material in order to help to carry the hoop tensile loads that accumulates during a blade out event. The inventors have determined that the principal failure mode of the fan case during a blade out event is a tensile failure resulting as the released blade is slowed by the fan case . The orientation of the associated tensile load in the fan case is primarily in the radial direction as shown in by arrows . The tensile load resulting from the blade out event also causes a substantial hoop stress to be circumferentially generated in the fan case .

The specifications for layer will vary in accordance with the specifications for the fan case as dictated for example by particular performance weight and cost requirements and therefore do not limit the scope of the present invention.

It should be noted that many variations in the number of load spreader layers band layers and separator film layers applied to the blade containing region of fan case are possible will be determined by performance cost and weight requirements and are all fully contemplated within the scope of the present invention. For example in addition to applying two or more load spreader layers to the second layer two or more band layers may be applied to the second layer with or without a separator film layer . The number configurations and specifications of layers for the inventive fan case design therefore do not limit the scope of this invention.

Numerous details have been set forth in this description which is to be taken as a whole to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as to not obscure unnecessarily the invention.

The invention includes all combinations and subcombinations of the various elements features functions and or properties disclosed herein. The following claims define certain combinations and subcombinations which are regarded as novel and non obvious. Additional claims for other combinations and subcombinations of features functions elements and or properties may be later presented in this or a related application.

