---

title: Protein expression systems
abstract: Disclosed are recombinant non-insect host cells and use of activation of CMV or SV40 promoters by IE1, IE2 and the enhancer hr of the baculovirus in non-insect host cells for expression heterologous RNAs or polypeptides. Also disclosed are methods of using the cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08105827&OS=08105827&RS=08105827
owner: Academia Sinica
number: 08105827
owner_city: Taipei
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20070906
---
A number of protein expression systems have been utilized to produce useful heterologous proteins. is one of the most widely used hosts. While high levels of expression in bacterial systems are common problems of improper folding and lack of post translational processing often lead to functionally inactive proteins. The baculovirus expression system can be used to circumvent these problems. The baculovirus system enjoys many advantages for expressing a heterologous protein. For example heterologous cDNA is expressed well although genes having introns are expressed less efficiently. Baculovirus expression of heterologous genes permits folding post translational modification and oligomerization in manners often identical to those in vertebrate cells e.g. mammalian cells. Further proteins may be secreted from cells or targeted to different subcellular locations. Single polypeptide dimeric and trimeric proteins have also been expressed in baculovirus systems. In addition high level protein expression can be achieved using the strong polyhedrin promoter. Despite these advantages baculovirus systems are still not satisfactory compared with vertebrate cell based systems in several aspects. Examples include inefficient secretion from cells improperly protein folding and intracellular protein aggregation. Also N linked glycosylation sites are often either fully glycosylated or not glycosylated at all as opposed to various glycoforms in mammalian cells. Further species or tissue specific modifications are unlikely to occur in baculovirus expression systems. Mammalian cell based expression systems generally do not have the problems seen in baculovirus expression systems. However protein expression levels are often not satisfactory.

This invention relates to vertebrate cell based expression systems that take advantage of baculovirus proteins and nucleic acids so as to achieve high level expression in vertebrate cells. Examples of the baculovirus proteins nucleopolyhedrovirus AcMNPV immediately early IE protein IE1 Kovacs et al. J Virol. December 1992 66 12 7429 37 and IE2 Yoo and Guarino Virology 1994 202 164 72 examples of the baculovirus nucleic acids include AcMNPV homologous region hr Viswanathan et al. JBC December 278 52 52564 71 enhancers.

Accordingly this invention features a cultured recombinant vertebrate receptive cell comprising a first nucleic acid containing a CMV or a SV40 promoter sequence that is operably linked to a sequence encoding an RNA and a second nucleic acid containing a sequence encoding a protein containing the sequence of an IE1 or IE2 polypeptide. The sequence encoding the protein can be operatively linked to a heterologous promoter e.g. a non baculoviral promoter. The cell includes protein of IE1 or IE2 and the protein trans activates the transcription of its target genes in the cell. In other words the cell expresses functional protein of IE1 or IE2. The cell can further include a third nucleic acid containing the sequence of an hr enhancer. Listed below are exemplary sequences of IE1 IE2 CMV promoter SV40 promoter and nine hr enhancers.

The hr enhancer in the third nucleic acid can contain a sequence of one of SEQ ID NOs 8 16 or a functional equivalent thereof. This third nucleic acid can be either in trans or in cis with the first or second nucleic acid. For example the first nucleic acid and the hr enhancer can be on the same molecule or on different molecules. In one embodiment the hr enhancer is in cis with the first or second nucleic acid. The above described cell can express the protein of IE1 or IE2 which activates the CMV or SV40 promoter i.e. activates or increases the transcription of a sequence under the control of the promoter.

The terms host cell and recombinant host cell are used interchangeably. Such terms refer not only to the particular subject cell but also to the progeny or potential progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or environmental influences such progeny may not be identical to the parent cell but are still included within the scope of the term as used herein. A receptive host cell i.e. receptive cell is any suitable vertebrate animal cell such a non mammalian vertebrate cell e.g. a fish cell or a mammalian cell e.g. a Chinese hamster ovary CHO cell a HeLa cell a NIH3T3 cell a Vero E6 cell a BHK cell a 293 cell a U2 OS cell or a COS cell . Other suitable receptive cells are known to those skilled in the art. The term recombinant when used with reference e.g. to a cell or nucleic acid polypeptide or vector indicates that the cell nucleic acid polypeptide or vector has been modified by the introduction of a heterologous nucleic acid or polypeptide or the alteration of a native nucleic acid or polypeptide or that the cell is derived from a cell so modified. Thus for example recombinant cells express genes that are not found within the native naturally occurring form of the cell or express a second copy of a native gene that is otherwise normally or abnormally expressed under expressed or not expressed at all.

The term heterologous nucleic acid or polypeptide indicates that the nucleic acid or polypeptide comprises two or more subsequences that are not found in the same relationship to each other in nature. For instance a nucleic acid that is recombinantly produced typically has two or more sequences from unrelated genes synthetically arranged to make a new functional nucleic acid e.g. a promoter from one source and a coding region from another source. The two nucleic acids are thus heterologous to each other in this context. When added to a cell the recombinant nucleic acids would also be heterologous to the endogenous genes of the cell. Thus in a chromosome a heterologous nucleic acid would include a non native non naturally occurring nucleic acid that has integrated into the chromosome or a non native non naturally occurring extrachromosomal nucleic acid. In contrast a naturally translocated piece of chromosome would not be considered heterologous in the context of this patent application as it comprises an endogenous nucleic acid sequence that is native to the mutated cell. Similarly a heterologous polypeptide indicates that the polypeptide comprises two or more subsequences that are not found in the same relationship to each other in nature e.g. a fusion protein where the two subsequences are encoded by a single nucleic acid sequence . In one example the heterologous sequence is a non baculovirus sequence.

A nucleic acid refers to a DNA molecule e.g. a cDNA or genomic DNA an RNA molecule e.g. an mRNA or a DNA or RNA analog. A DNA or RNA analog can be

The above mentioned RNA can be either a noncoding RNA or a coding RNAs i.e. mRNAs which encodes a polypeptide . Noncoding RNAs are single or double stranded RNAs that do not encode polypeptides. Noncoding RNAs affect processes including but not limited to transcription gene silencing replication RNA processing RNA modification RNA stability mRNA translation protein stability and or protein translation. Noncoding RNAs include but are not limited to small RNAs sRNA microRNAs miRNAs small temporal RNAs stRNAs and or interspersed element RNAs IRE RNAs .

 Promoter refers to a nucleotide sequence usually upstream 5 to its coding sequence that controls the expression of the coding sequence by providing the recognition for RNA polymerase and other factors required for proper transcription. Examples of promoter include a minimal promoter that is a short DNA sequence comprised of a TATA box and other sequences that serve to specify the site of transcription initiation to which regulatory elements are added for control of expression. Promoter also refers to a nucleotide sequence that includes a minimal promoter plus regulatory elements that is capable of controlling the expression of a coding sequence or functional RNA. This type of promoter sequence consists of proximal and more distal upstream elements the latter elements often referred to as enhancers. An enhancer is a DNA sequence that can stimulate promoter activity and may be an innate element of the promoter or a heterologous element inserted to enhance the level or tissue specificity of a promoter. It is capable of operating in both orientations normal or flipped and is capable of functioning even when moved either upstream or downstream from the promoter. Both enhancers and other upstream promoter elements bind sequence specific DNA binding proteins that mediate their effects. Promoters may be derived in their entirety from a native gene or be composed of different elements derived from different promoters found in nature or even be comprised of synthetic DNA segments. A promoter may also contain DNA sequences that are involved in the binding of protein factors that control the effectiveness of transcription initiation in response to physiological or developmental conditions. Examples of promoters or enhancers described herein include CMV promoters e.g. CMVie and CMVm SV40 promoters and hr enhancers as well as their functional equivalents.

The terms cis acting sequence and cis acting element refer to DNA or RNA sequences whose functions require them to be on the same molecule. The terms trans acting sequence and trans acting element refer to DNA or RNA sequences whose function does not require them to be on the same molecule.

The cell or nucleic acid described above can be used to express a useful polypeptide. For this purpose one can operatively link a nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide to suitable regulatory sequences to generate an expression vector. Operably linked refers to the association of nucleic acid sequences on single nucleic acid fragment so that the function of one is affected by the other. For example a regulatory DNA sequence is said to be operably linked to or associated with a DNA sequence that codes for an RNA or a polypeptide if the two sequences are situated such that the regulatory DNA sequence affects expression of the coding DNA sequence i.e. that the coding sequence or functional RNA is under the transcriptional control of the promoter . Coding sequences can be operably linked to regulatory sequences in sense or antisense orientation.

One can use the just described cell to express an RNA or a polypeptide in a cell by culturing the cell in a medium and expressing the RNA or polypeptide in the cell. One can further purify the polypeptide from the cell or the medium by methods known in the art. The phase culture or grow a cell refers to maintain the cell under a condition suitable for the cell to survive or proliferate.

The invention also features a method of increasing the expression level of a RNA in a receptive cell. The method includes obtaining a receptive cell that includes a first nucleic acid containing a CMV or SV40 promoter sequence that is operably linked a sequence encoding an RNA and introducing into the cell a second nucleic acid containing a sequence encoding a protein having the sequence of IE1 or IE2. Alternatively one can obtain a receptive cell that includes the second nucleic acid and then introduce into the cell the first nucleic acid. The method described above can further include introducing into the cell a third nucleic acid containing the sequence of an hr enhancer such as a sequence of one of SEQ ID NOs 8 16 or a functional equivalent thereof. Expression refers to the transcription and or translation of an endogenous gene or a transgene in cells. For example in the case of antisense constructs expression may refer to the transcription of the antisense nucleic acid only. In addition expression refers to the transcription and stable accumulation of sense mRNA or functional RNA. Expression may also refer to the production of protein. The cell can be a non insect cell e.g. a vertebrate cell such as a mammalian cell and non mammalian vertebrate cell in which the CMV or SV40 promoter functions as a promoter. Examples of a non mammalian vertebrate cell include a fish cell. See e.g. Kanellos et al. Vaccine April 2006 24 4927 4933 and Sylvester et al. Immunology October 1999 96 307 313 .

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying description below. Other advantages features and objects of the invention will be apparent from the detailed description and the claims.

This invention is based at least in part on the unexpected discovery that certain baculovirus proteins and nucleic acids increase the expression levels of useful heterologous proteins in expression systems based on non insect cell animal cells non permissive cells .

One aspect of the invention provides a cultured receptive cell which includes a first nucleic acid containing a CMV or a SV40 promoter sequence that is operably linked to a sequence encoding an RNA and a second nucleic acid containing a sequence encoding a protein containing the sequence of IE1 or IE2. The RNA encoding nucleic acid is operably linked to the CMV promoter or SV40 promoter. The cell can further include a third nucleic acid containing the sequence of an hr enhancer. In one example the first nucleic acid and the second nucleic acid are not on the same molecule. That is none of the first and second nucleic acids are on the same molecule. In other words the first nucleic acid and the second nucleic acid are in trans but not in cis. The third nucleic acid can be either in trans or in cis with the first or second nucleic acid. In one example at least one of the first nucleic acid and the second nucleic acid is heterologous to a baculovirus. For example the second nucleic acid includes a sequence encoding a protein having the sequence of baculovirus IE1 or IE2 polypeptide wherein the sequence is under the control of a non baculoviral promoter. As used herein an IE1 polypeptide i.e. IE1 or an IE2 polypeptide i.e. IE2 refers to any polypeptide having sequences of SEQ ID NO 1 or 3 i.e. SEQ ID NO 1 or 3 or a functional equivalent of SEQ ID NO 1 or 3 . A functional equivalent of a protein sequence e.g. the IE1 or IE2 protein refers to a polypeptide derived from the protein sequence e.g. a fusion polypeptide or a polypeptide having one or more point mutations insertions deletions truncations or combination thereof. This polypeptide is at least 60 any number between 60 and 100 inclusive identical to e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 or 3 and retains substantially activity of the protein i.e. the ability to enhance the activity of a CMV promoter or a SV40 promoter in a receptive cell using the assay described in the examples below. The functional equivalent polypeptide can contain a fragment of IE1 or IE2. Examples of an IE1 or IE2 functional equivalent include mutants retaining domains important for their transaction activity. It is known in the art that IE1 acidic activation domain is needed for its activity while the RING finger motif of IE2 is not essential for virus replication. See Dai et al. J Gen Virol. March 2004 85 Pt 3 573 82 and Prikhod ko et al. J Virol. 1999 73 3 2460 2468.

The amino acid composition of IE1 or IE2 polypeptide described herein may vary without disrupting the function of the polypeptide. For example it can contain one or more conservative amino acid substitutions. A conservative amino acid substitution is one in which the amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain. Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art. These families include amino acids with basic side chains e.g. lysine arginine histidine acidic side chains e.g. aspartic acid glutamic acid uncharged polar side chains e.g. glycine asparagine glutamine serine threonine tyrosine cysteine nonpolar side chains e.g. alanine valine leucine isoleucine proline phenylalanine methionine tryptophan beta branched side chains e.g. threonine valine isoleucine and aromatic side chains e.g. tyrosine phenylalanine tryptophan histidine . Thus a predicted nonessential amino acid residue in the sequence of IE1 or IE2 is preferably replaced with another amino acid residue from the same side chain family. Alternatively mutations can be introduced randomly along all or part of the sequence such as by saturation mutagenesis and the resultant mutants can be screened for the activities of IE1 or IE2.

Similarly a functional equivalent of a nucleic acid e.g. a CMV promoter a SV40 promoter or an hr enhancer refers to a nucleic acid having a sequence derived from one of SEQ ID NO 5 16 e.g. having one or more point mutations insertions deletions truncations or combination thereof. This nucleic acid is at least 60 any number between 60 and 100 inclusive identical to anyone of SEQ ID NOs 5 16 and retains substantially activity of the promoter or enhancer activity. The functional equivalent can contain a fragment of one of SEQ ID NO 5 16.

Each of the above described nucleic acid can be a vector i.e. a nucleic acid molecule capable of transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. The vector can be capable of autonomous replication or integrate into a host DNA. Examples of the vector include a plasmid cosmid or viral vector. The vector of this invention includes a nucleic acid in a form suitable for expression of the nucleic acid in a host cell. Preferably the vector includes one or more regulatory sequences operatively linked to the nucleic acid sequence to be expressed. Examples of a regulatory sequence include promoters enhancers and other expression control elements e.g. polyadenylation signals . Regulatory sequences also include those that direct constitutive expression of a nucleotide sequence as well as tissue specific regulatory and or inducible sequences. Additional elements may include heterologous spliced intronic signals.

The cell descried herein can be used to produce i.e. express an RNA or a protein of interest. Accordingly the invention further provides methods for producing an RNA or a protein using the cells. In one embodiment the method includes culturing the cell into which a recombinant expression vector encoding the RNA or protein has been introduced in a suitable medium such that the RNA or protein is produced. In another embodiment the method further includes isolating the protein from the medium or the cell.

The protein of interest can be any desired protein such as therapeutic proteins. Examples of such proteins include cytokines lymphokines growth factors mitogenic factors chemotactic factors onco active factors receptors antibody or fragment or variant thereof channel proteins G proteins signal transduction molecules and other proteins encoded by disease related genes. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 189 690. Preferred proteins include EPO interleukin family proteins e.g. IL 6 and IL 8 GM CSF and interferon. Other types of proteins include antigenic proteins for vaccination purposes. Examples include the SARS virus Spike protein influenza viruses HA surface glycoprotein or their immunogenic fragments. These proteins have specific post translational modification e.g. glycosylation which isn t available in prokaryotic cells for example.

The design of the expression vector depends on such factors as the choice of a cell to be transformed the level of expression of protein desired and the like. The expression vector can be introduced into cells to produce the RNA or polypeptide mentioned above. Examples of a cell include cells yeast cells insect cells non mammalian vertebrate cells e.g. fish cells and mammalian cells. Commercially available fusion expression systems such as GST MBP and LacZ can be used. Such fusion proteins are used for purification of the protein. Epitope tags can also be added to recombinant proteins to provide convenient methods of isolation monitoring expression and monitoring cellular and subcellular localization e.g. c myc FLAG or HA.

Some expression systems have markers for selection of stably transfected cell lines such as thymidine kinase hygromycin B phosphotransferase and dihydrofolate reductase. High yield expression systems are also suitable such as using a baculovirus vector in insect cells with a encoding sequence under the direction of the polyhedrin promoter or other strong baculovirus promoters. Elements that are typically included in expression vectors also include a replicon that functions in a gene encoding antibiotic resistance to permit selection of bacteria that harbor recombinant plasmids and unique restriction sites in nonessential regions of the plasmid to allow insertion of recombinant sequences.

Standard transformation transfection methods are used to produce bacterial yeast insect or mammalian or non mammalian vertebrate cell lines that express large quantities of protein which are then purified using standard techniques see e.g. Colley et al. J. Biol. Chem. 264 17619 17622 1989 Guide to Protein Purification in Methods in Enzymology vol. 182 Deutscher ed. 1990 . Transformation of eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells are performed according to standard techniques see e.g. Morrison J. Bact. 132 349 351 1977 Clark Curtiss Curtiss Methods in Enzymology 101 347 362 Wu et al. eds 1983 . The terms transformation and transfection refer to a variety of art recognized techniques for introducing foreign nucleic acid e.g. DNA into a cell. Any of the well known procedures for introducing foreign nucleotide sequences into cells may be used. These include the use of calcium phosphate or calcium chloride co precipitation DEAE dextran mediated transfection polybrene protoplast fusion electroporation liposomes microinjection naked DNA plasmid vectors viral vectors both episomal and integrative and any of the other well known methods for introducing cloned genomic DNA cDNA synthetic DNA or other foreign genetic material into a cell see e.g. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 3rd ed. 2001 Kriegler Gene Transfer and Expression A Laboratory Manual 1990 and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Ausubel et al. eds. 1994 . It is only necessary that the particular genetic engineering procedure used be capable of successfully introducing at least one gene into the cell capable of expressing the protein of choice.

The above mentioned RNA can be an anti sense RNA or a small interference RNA e.g. an RNAi agent that targets a gene of interest and inhibits its expression activity. The term RNAi or RNA interference refers to a sequence specific or selective process by which a target molecule e.g. a target gene protein or RNA is down regulated. Within the scope of this invention is utilization of RNAi featuring degradation of RNA molecules e.g. within a cell . The RNAi technology is well known in the art.

The expression system described herein can also be used for expressing a protein or an RNA in a target tissue. Conventional viral and non viral based gene transfer methods can be used to introduce nucleic acids encoding a desired protein or RNA into target tissues. Such methods can be used to administer nucleic acids for in vivo or ex vivo gene therapy. Methods of non viral delivery of nucleic acids include lipofection microinjection ballistics virosomes liposomes immunoliposomes polycation or lipid nucleic acid conjugates naked DNA artificial virions and agent enhanced uptake of DNA. lipofection is described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 049 386 4 946 787 and 4 897 355 and lipofection reagents are available commercially e.g. Transfectam and Lipofectin . Cationic and neutral lipids that are suitable for efficient receptor recognition lipofection of polynucleotides include those of Feigner WO 91 17424 WO 91 16024. Delivery can be to cells ex vivo administration or target tissues in vivo administration . Viral vector delivery systems include DNA and RNA viruses which have either episomal or integrated genomes after delivery to the cell. The use of RNA or DNA viral based systems for the delivery of nucleic acids take advantage of highly evolved processes for targeting a virus to specific cells in the body and trafficking the viral payload to the nucleus. Viral vectors can be administered directly to patients in vivo or they can be used to treat cells in vitro and the modified cells are administered to patients cr vivo . Conventional viral based systems include baculoviral retroviral lentivirus adenoviral adeno associated and herpes simplex virus vectors integration in the host genome is possible with the baculovirus retrovirus lentivirus and adeno associated virus gene transfer methods often resulting in long term expression of the inserted transgene.

Ex vivo cell transfection for diagnostics research or for gene therapy e.g. via re infusion of the transfected cells into the host organism is well known to those of skill in the art. In one example cells are isolated from the subject organism transfected with a nucleic acid gene or cDNA and re infused back into the subject e.g. a patient . Various cell types suitable for ex vivo transfection are well known to those of skill in the art see e.g. Freshney et al. Culture of Animal Cells A Manual of Basic Technique 3rd ed. 1994 and the references cited therein for a discussion of how to isolate and culture cells from patients . Stem cells e.g. hematopoietic stem cells can be used in ex vivo procedures for cell transfection and gene therapy. The advantage to using stem cells is that they can be differentiated into other cell types in vitro or can be introduced into a mammal such as the donor of the cells where they will engraft in the bone marrow. For example methods for differentiating CD34 cells in vitro into clinically important immune cell types using cytokines such a GM CSF IFN and TNF are known in the art see Inaba et al. J. Exp. Med. 176 1693 1702 1992 .

Vectors e.g. baculovirus retroviruses adenoviruses liposomes etc. containing therapeutic nucleic acids can be also administered directly to the organism for transduction of cells in vivo. Alternatively naked DNA can be administered. Administration is by any of the routes normally used for introducing a molecule into ultimate contact with blood or tissue cells. Suitable methods of administering such nucleic acids are available and well known to those of skill in the art and although more than one route can be used to administer a particular composition a particular route can often provide a more immediate and more effective reaction than another route.

A number of vertebrate cell expression systems use CMV or SV40 promoters. As discussed herein baculovirus proteins and nucleic acids boost the activity of these promoters. Accordingly to increase expression levels from these systems one can introduce the above described baculoviral proteins and nucleic acids into the mammalian or non mammalian vertebrate cell expression using the above described gene delivery methods. Alternatively and more conveniently one simply contacts a non cytotoxic recombinant baculovirus with the cells so as to supply the baculoviral proteins and nucleic acids.

The specific example below is to be construed as merely illustrative and not limitative of the remainder of the disclosure in any way whatsoever. Without further elaboration it is believed that one skilled in the art can based on the description herein utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. All publications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

IE1 and IE2 coding sequences were amplified from baculovirus genomic DNA using the following PCR primers IE1 forward primer 5 CATGGTGACGCAAATTAA TTTTAACGCGT 3 SEQ ID NO 17 NcoI site underlined IE1 reverse primer 5 AACCGATTA AATTC GAATTTTTTATA 3 SEQ ID NO 18 XhoI site underlined IE2 forward primer 5 GC GTAGTCGCCAAATCAACGCC 3 SEQ ID NO 19 NcoI site underlined and IE2 reverse primer 5 GCAC GTCTAGACATAACAGTTTG 3 SEQ ID NO 20 XhoI site underlined . The resulting PCR fragments were digested with NcoI and XhoI and inserted into pTriex3 vector Novagen that was pre digested also with NcoI and XhoI generating pAtIE1 and pAtIE2.

The vector pAcL was constructed first by PCR amplifying a luciferase coding sequence with a forward primer 5 CCGGCTCGAGTAGGCGTGTACGGTGG 3 SEQ ID NO 21 and a reverse primer 5 GCCTCTCCCTTGGCCGATTCATTAATGC 3 SEQ ID NO 22 EagI site underlined using pTRE luc Clontech as a template. The PCR product was digested with PstI and EagI and the resulting fragment was inserted into pTriex3 pre digested with PstI and EagI generating pAcL.

An hr1 fragment was obtained by PCR using AcMNPV genomic DNA as template with a forward primer 5 TGACATTATCCCTCGATTGTGTTTTACA 3 SEQ ID NO 23 and a reverse primer 5 TGATCCTTCAACTCGCTTTACGAGTAGA 3 SEQ ID NO 24 . The resulting PCR fragment was cloned into a pCR Blunt vector Invitrogen generating phr1. The vector phr1 was digested with KpnI and BamHI and the resulting fragment was subsequently cloned into pAcL that was pre digested with KpnI and BglII resulting in pAcL.

The vector piIE1 was constructed by PCR amplifying the IE1 coding sequence plus its promoter region with a forward primer 5 TCAACGCCGATCCCTATGAT 3 SEQ ID NO 25 and a reverse primer 5 AACGTCGCCAACTCCCATTG 3 SEQ ID NO 26. The PCR fragment was cloned into pCR Blunt vector Invitrogen to yield piIE1.

The constructions of vectors pcmL and pcmL were described previously in Lo et al. 2002 J. Biol. Chem. 277 7 5256 64.

For ease of single virus selection a reporter expression cassette with the fluorescent DsR2 gene driven by twin promoters SV40 and CMVm was inserted into all transfer plasmids. The resulting viruses expressed the DsR2 protein in mammalian and insect cells.

Sf21 cells 2 10 were seeded in a well of a 24 well plate. Co transfection experiment was carried out using Cellfectin Invitrogen as transfection reagent. Each transfection 1 g of linear viral DNA BaculoGold and 1 g of transfer plasmids were mixed with 2 g of Cellfectin and the resulting DNA mixture was incubated at room temperature for 25 minutes. The cells were washed with a serum free TC100 medium and then incubated with the DNA mixture for 5 hours at 26 C. before the DNA mixture was replaced with a 10 FBS TC100 medium. The titer of recombinant virus was determined by either Q PCR Lo et al. 2004 Biotechnol. Prog 20 1 354 60 or TCID.

The IPLB Sf21 Sf21 cell line was cultured as monolayer in a TC 100 insect medium containing 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum FBS . It was used for propagation and infection of wild type and recombinant AcMNPV. CHO k1 cells were cultured as monolayer in 50 FI2K 50 DMEM Dulbecco s Minimal Eagle s Medium containing 10 FBS and 2 antibiotics Streptomycin and Penicillin and maintained in 37 C. incubator containing 5 CO. VeroE6 cells were cultured in MEM Minimal Eagle s Medium containing 10 FBS and 2 antibiotics Streptomycin and Penicillin and maintained in 37 C. incubator containing 5 CO.

CHO k1 cells 1 10 or VeroE6 cells 5 10 were seeded in each well of a 96 well plate 24 hours prior to transfection. Transfection was performed using lipofectamin2000 as transfection reagent following manufacturer s protocol Invitrogen . In short solution A was prepared by mixing 0.3 g of lipofectamin2000 in 20 l of a serum free medium. Solution B was prepared by mixing 0.1 g of total sample DNA in 10 l of a serum free medium. Solution A was incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes before mixing with solution B. The resulting mixture was incubated for 25 minutes at room temperature. A serum free medium 30 l was added to the solution mixture to bring up the volume to 60 l. The cells were washed with a serum free medium before addition of the solution mixture. The plate was incubated for 4 6 hours at 37 C. with 5 COand the supernatant was replaced with 100 l of serum and antibiotics containing medium. The plate was further incubated at 37 C. in 5 COfor additional 2 3 days before luciferase activity assay was carried out.

VeroE6 or CHO k1 cells cells were seeded on a 96 well plate at 5 10 well 24 hours prior to experiment. The cells were incubated with recombinant baculovirus at multiplicity of infection MOI of 20 for VeroE6 cells or MOI of 40 for CHO k1 cells . Transduced cells were harvested at 72 hours VeroE6 cells or 48 hours CHO k1 cells post transduction for luciferase activity assay.

The above described cells were lysed with 100 l of a culture cell lysis reagent CCLR 100 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.8 1 mM EDTA 10 glycerol 1 Triton X 100 and 7 mM mercaptoethanol. The plate was placed on a rocking platform at 4 C. for 10 minutes at 200 rpm to break the cells. The resulting supernatant was collected into a 1.5 ml micro centrifuge tube and subjected to centrifugation at 14 000 rpm for 10 minutes at 4 C. Ten microliter of the supernatant and 180 l of luciferase activity reagent LAR 25 mM Tricine pH 7.8 15 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.8 15 mM MgSO 4 mM EGTA 1 mM ATP and 0.1 mM dithiothreitol were mixed on a 96 well assay plate. Fifty microliter of 0.2 mM luciferin Promega was injected into each well and the luciferase activity was measured on a luminometer Berthold Lumat LB 9501 .

The method for protein concentration determination was described previously Lo et al. 2002 J. Biol. Chem. 277 7 5256 64 . The luciferase activity was expressed as luciferase raw data RLU g total protein using the following formula RLU Vol. l of sample used for luciferase assay protein value ng l dilution fold 1000 l ng . The relative light unit was obtained by setting the maximum RLU g total protein in each figure to around 10. Fold increases were obtained by setting the value of RLU g total protein of the reporter plasmid to 1 and comparing all other values to it.

Two plasmids constructed to investigate whether baculovirus trans activator IE1 was capable of trans activating mammalian CMVie and CMVm promoters. One plasmid piIE1 contained an IE1 coding sequence that was under its own promoter ie1 the other pAtIE1IE1 also included the IE1 coding sequence under the CMVie promoter .

To examine the effects of IE1 on the CMVm promoter VeroE6 or CHO k1 cells were transfected with reporter plasmids pcmL and pcmL in the presence or the absence of piIE1 or pAtIE1. Luciferase assays were conducted in the manner described above. It was found that activation of the CMVm promoter was only seen with the pcmL plasmid. Specifically in Vero cells having pcmL the luciferase activities were not increased in the presence of either piIE1 or pAtIE1. Similar results were found in CHO k1 cells having pcmL. In contrast in Vero cells having pcmL the luciferase activities reported vector alone in the presence of piIE1 and in the presence of pAtIE1 were respectively 1.2 8.2 and 48.5 times of the luciferase activity in Vero cells having pcmL. In CHO k1 cells having pcmL the activities were 4.2 137 and 110 times of that in CHO k1 cells having pcmL. These results indicated that the hr sequence was required for IE1 activation of CMVm promoter in both VeroE6 and CHO k1 cells.

The same experiment was repeated with reporter plasmids pAcL and pAcL which included the CMVie promoter. The results were shown in Table 1 below. As shown in the table about 4 fold increase in luciferase activity was detected when either piIE1 or pAtIE1 was co transfected with the reporter plasmid pAcL. Together the results showed that the baculovirus IE1 protein alone could activate the full length CMVie mammalian promoter in both Vero E6 and CHO k1 cells.

Baculovirus Homologous Region could Augment IE1 Mediated CMVie and CMVm Promoter Activation both in Cis and in Trans 

Baculovirus hr1 sequence was incorporated into the reporter plasmids pcmL and pAcL to obtain pcmL and pAcL . These two reporter plasmids were transfected into VeroE6 and CHO k1 cells in the presence or the absence of piIE1 or pAtIE1 and the luciferase expressions were compared to those obtained from pcmL and pAcL in the manner described above. Luciferase expression under CMVm promoter was drastically increased 10fold at maximum when both hr and IE1 were present mainly because the expression from CMVm without hr was almost negligible. Luciferase expression under CMVie promoter was also greatly increased in the presence of hr 9 fold at maximum .

To examiner the ability of hr to enhance IE1 mediated activation in trans a plasmid containing baculovirus hr1 phrI was constructed . It was co transfected with reporter plasmid pcmL and pAcL with or without piIE1 or pAtIE1 into VeroE6 and CHO k1 cells. The resulting luciferase expressions were compared to those obtained from pcmL and pAcL with or without piIE1 or pAtIE1. The results presented in Table 1 below.

In both types of cells the presence of a third plasmid having hr in trans almost doubled the luciferase expression under CMVie promoter in the presence of IE1 however the level of activation did not exceed that for hr in cis. The results indicate that hr augmented IE1 mediated trans activation of CMV promoter both in trans and in cis in VeroE6 and CHO k1 cells and that the augmentation was more efficient in cis than in trans.

Similar results were obtained through baculovirus transduction. A number of recombinant baculoviruses were generated to test the efficiency of baculovirus mediated gene delivery into VeroE6 and CHO k1 cells and whether IE1 could mediate mammalian promoter activation when packaged into the baculovirus genome. The recombinant baculoviruses included vAtIE1 which had a CMVie promoter driven IE1 expressing cassette and four reporter viruses vAcmL vAcmL vAcL and vAcL.

VeroE6 cells were transduced with these recombinant viruses at an MOI 10 for each type of virus and CHO k1 cells were transduced at MOI 20 for each type of virus. Luciferase assays were carried out in the manner described above. The results were summarized in Table 2 below.

As shown in Table 2 recombinant baculoviruses vAtIE1 activated CMVm and CMVie promoters in both Vero E6 and CHO k1 cells.

For the CMVm promoter reporter virus vAcmL or vAcmL had a very low background level expression in mammalian cells. The addition of IE1 greatly enhanced the CMVm promoter activity in Vero E6 by 52 folds while only moderately in CHO k1 by 2.5 folds . In both Vero E6 and CHO k1 cells the presence of hr did not affect the activity of the CMVm promoter but augmented the trans activation effect of IE1. The virus having the expression cassette encoding IE1 vAtIE1 was more effective in Vero E6 cells than in CHO k1 cells to increase the activity of CMVm most likely due to the higher transduction efficiency of baculovirus in Vero E6 cells.

For the CMVie promoter hr increased the CMVie promoter activity by 7.7 and 12 folds in CHO k1 and Vero E6 cells respectively. The IE1 virus further increased the activity by 2 to 3 folds i.e. to 17 and 38 folds of the basal level . The effects of IE1 with regard to the CMVie promote were less significant than those with regard the CMVm promoter.

Overall the transduction activated the promoters in a fashion similar that in the above described transient expression where a combination of IE1 and hr increased the CMVie promoter the most.

Besides IE1 IE2 protein is also a major trans activator of baculovirus. To examine whether IE2 also activated the mammalian CMVie promoter an IE2 expressing plasmid pAtIE2 and virus derived from it vAtIE2 were generated. Three effecter plasmids piIE1 pAtIE1 and pAtIE2 were separately co transfected with the reporter pAcL plasmid into Vero E6 cells. For each transfection the amount of the reporter plasmid was 30 ng while the effecter plasmid was added at increasing molar ratios 1 1 to 1 5 . It was unexpected that IE2 had a much stronger effect on the CMVie promoter activation than IE1. See Table 3 below. It was found that piIE1 increased the CMVie promoter by 12 folds at a ratio of 3 1 while pAtIE2 increased the CMVie promoter 30 folds at the ratio 4 1. When the hr enhancer was present in cis on the reporter plasmid pAcL the IE1 and IE2 mediated activation were even more pronounced with respective maximum activation rates of 30 and 122 folds at ratio 1 3. The results indicated that that IE2 enhanced the CMVie promoter activity in mammalian cells and this activation was augmented by the hr sequence in a manner similar to the IE1 activation. The results also indicated that IE2 was a stronger trans activator for the CMVie promoter than IE1.

Recombinant baculoviruses vAtIE1 and vAtIE2 and wild type AcMNPV were co transduced separately with the four reporter viruses vAcmL vAcmL vAcL and vAcL. Luciferase assays were conducted in the manner described above. The results were summarized in Table 4 below.

In the above study it was shown for the first time that the two major trans activators of baculovirus IE1 and IE2 when properly expressed under a mammalian promoter could activate a non baculoviral promoter in mammalian cells. An interesting observation was also made when driven by its endogenous promoter in naked DNA form plasmid IE1 could activate the mammalian CMVie promoter and its derivative. In contrast wild type AcMNPV virus itself failed to activate the CMVie promoter even though both ie1 and ie2 genes are present in its genome. This is likely due to ineffective recognition of the IE1 endogenous promoter when packaged within the whole AcMNPV genome.

The mechanism for hr enhancement of the CMVie promoter activity and IE1 or IE2 activation of the promoter are different and additive. Here it was found that the hr sequence enhanced not only IE1 mediated activation in mammalian cells but also the IE2 mediated promoter activation.

IE2 activated the mammalian CMVie promoter in Vero E6 cells and was about three times more effective than IE1. However this activation was only seen on the CMVie promoter but not the CMVm promoter. There are several possible explanations 1 IE2 may interact directly with the enhancer part of the CMVie promoter which is missing in the CMVie promoter 2 IE2 may act via specific host mechanisms factors which improve cellular transcription or translation.

All of the features disclosed in this specification may be combined in any combination. Each feature disclosed in this specification may be replaced by an alternative feature serving the same equivalent or similar purpose. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is only an example of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

From the above description one skilled in the art can easily ascertain the essential characteristics of the present invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions. Thus other embodiments are also within the scope of the following claims.

