---

title: Integrated prescription management and compliance system
abstract: A system and method for prescription therapy management and compliance are provided. The system framework integrates primary databases from pharmacies, pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs), health plans, and EHR providers with a secondary database system, user interface, and wireless messaging platform, in order to extract and aggregate user-specific prescription data and make it available to users through a personalized account and as a part of a wireless prescription reminder service. The system helps users access, aggregate, manage, update, automate, and schedule the prescriptions they are currently taking. Users receive real-time wireless prescription dosing reminders based on their prescribed drug, dosage, and other indications, tailored to each individual's daily schedule. These wireless dosing reminders (i) include additional instructional content such as pill images, compliance tools, and Web or WAP drug links, (ii) are automatically scheduled and transmitted based on the user's prescription source data, in conjunction with selections indicated on their personal account, and (iii) are transmitted via SMS, EMS, MMS, WAP, email, and other formats to the user's mobile phone, PDA, or other wireless device. The integrated interface and secondary database system enable a number of additional system features which focus on compliance and management of the underlying source prescription data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032397&OS=08032397&RS=08032397
owner: 
number: 08032397
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070118
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 1119 to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 759 962 filed Jan. 19 2006 the entire disclosure of which is herein expressly incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to the field of prescription therapy management and compliance as well as wireless and database technology.

Prescription drug therapy is now a standard component of most medical treatments. The volume and growth of prescription drug consumption has increased at record rates over the past decade. The primary drivers for this growth have been i an increase in drug usage due to an increasing number of chronic conditions and preventative treatments ii advances in technology and newer drugs iii accelerated FDA drug approvals iv an aging population with a higher consumption rate and v increased insurance and prescription drug coverage.

Once only an elderly or infirm phenomenon prescription drugs are now being consumed on a regular basis by all age groups. Several chronic conditions and preventative treatments for each age group have made high per capita consumption rates the norm for a majority of Americans. In 2003 3.4 billion prescriptions were dispensed in the United States with an average per capita consumption rate of 11.8 prescriptions per person. By 2005 IMS Health reported that this number had grown to 15.4 prescriptions per person. In a recent survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation 91 of Americans reported that they take prescription drugs and more than half said they take prescription drugs regularly.

Despite numerous advances in modern medicine prescription compliance remains a problem which continues to plague the healthcare industry. A study by the Kaiser Family Foundation has shown that over 70 of Americans either forget to take their medications or don t take them at the right times. There are multiple reasons for this phenomenon including busy schedules with multiple demands forgetfulness an increasingly mobile culture overestimation of negative side effects and the cost of the drugs themselves. The most obvious reason may be that people don t seem to remember to take their medications when they don t feel sick.

This failure to comply with prescribed drug treatments results in ineffective drug treatments hospitalizations and emergency room visits which in turn leads to increased health care costs for consumers insurance companies and the U.S. government. Prescription drug non compliance costs society nearly 100 billion a year and leads to an estimated 125 000 deaths according to statistics cited by the Department of Health and Human Services.

One of the biggest reasons for prescription non compliance is the lack of interaction between patients and health care providers after drugs are dispensed and patients commence their prescription treatments. A prescription received by a pharmacy may come complete with drug name dosage dosing and indications but it does not associate dosing with specific times of the day events or in relation to other drugs consumed. It is left to the patient to adapt the prescription to his or her daily schedule manage multiple prescriptions remember each set of instructions at precise times of the day and adapt their treatment regimens as new prescriptions are added or terminated. This process becomes much more complicated when patients are prescribed multiple drugs with different dosing regimens such as i once in the morning ii every eight hours iii three times a day iv with meals and v to be taken with drug X. Although the instructions and indications are printed on the container they may be forgotten over the course of weeks and months. In addition certain patients simply be incapable of adhering to a particular routine or regimen and require personal compliance assistance from an individual such as a mother spouse sibling or other caregiver. In these cases those additional individuals need real time access to the user s prescription instructions in order to assist them in taking their medications. Lastly in cases where users sustain adverse reactions to a prescription dose taken the user s prescription source data used in conjunction with a real time notification system may be a critical step in getting the user timely targeted health care support or emergency medical care.

There is currently a huge need for a system cheap and easy enough for the average consumer to use which can help users manage their prescription therapies and increase their rate of prescription compliance. Online wireless and other technologies which have high rates of consumer penetration are now routinely being used in numerous applications. U.S. wireless penetration currently exceeds 65 and a majority of Americans use mobile phones throughout the day for business and personal use. Wireless data technologies such as wireless short message service SMS enhanced message service EMS multi media message service MMS wireless application protocol WAP binary runtime environment for wireless BREW session initiation protocol SIP and instant messaging IM make efficient use of a wireless carrier s network and are available to all mobile phone users with a basic handset.

The present invention outlines a prescription therapy management and compliance system which uses standard technologies available to all consumers. Several health care entities such as pharmacies pharmacy benefit managers PBMs health insurance companies or health plans and electronic health record EHR providers maintain primary databases which store user specific prescription information and HIPAA Protected Health Information PHI . Although important this information on its own is of no use from a drug management or compliance perspective. The proposed invention aggregates customizes formats and otherwise uses the data stored on these primary databases in order to provide users with a real time prescription management account wireless dosing reminders and other compliance features using standard technologies such as mobile phones and wireless devices. The use of accessible consumer technologies makes it easy for the average consumer to incorporate the system into their daily routine thereby achieving the system s end goals of enhancing prescription therapy management and increasing prescription compliance.

Prescription compliance has been a problem for decades and a number of patents have been issued for inventions designed to assist individuals comply with their prescription drug regimens. There are four categories of designs for compliance based inventions. These are i compliance devices affixed to drug containers ii portable compliance devices iii drug dispensers with compliance enhancements and iv compliance communications systems.

The first category compliance devices affixed to drug containers are inventions designed to provide medication reminders which accompany the associated prescription medication. U.S. Pat. No. 6 545 592 Medication reminder device issued to Weiner describes a removal prescription vial cap with an embedded electronic unit which generates an alarm alerting the user that it is time to take a dose of his or her medication. U.S. Pat. No. 7 017 762 Medication reminder system issued to Shane describes a cap or closure for medication bottles which provide indicators for different drugs dispensed by a pharmacist.

The significant limitations of this class of inventions are that they must be manually programmed cannot be separated from the drug containers making them cumbersome and impractical for a mobile user require a separate container for each drug taken by the user and must be replaced with each refill or new drug making them expensive and somewhat difficult to use.

The second category portable compliance devices are inventions designed to remind mobile users when to take their medications by generating alarms which notify the user that it is time to take that medication. U.S. Pat. No. 5 157 640 Medication alert watch and system issued to Backner describes a watch worn by the user which must be programmed either electronically or by a pharmacist and omits an audible alarm and an LCD display with the name and dosage of the programmed medication alerting the wearer that it is time to take said medication. U.S. Pat. No. 6 934 220 Portable programmable medical alert device issued to Cruitt Chan and Tichy describes a portable medical alert device which may be programmed to emit an audible and visual alarm at certain times reminding the user of their medication schedule medical procedure or other treatment.

The significant limitations of this class of inventions are that must be manually programmed and re programmed for each new drug require the user to carry a device which he or she would not normally carry are only available to the immediate user lack features such as compliance analysis and are expensive and somewhat difficult to use.

The third category drug dispensers with compliance enhancements are systems designed to store manage and monitor prescription drug regimens for individuals through the use of interactive drug dispensers. U.S. Pat. No. 6 330 957 Automatic medication dispenser issued to Bell Greenstreet describes a medication dispenser which distributes medication and activates appropriate alarms according to at least one prescribed time schedule. U.S. Pat. No. 4 768 176 Apparatus for alerting a patient to take medication issued to Kehr and Hedrich describes a container having four compartments which store medications and alert the user via signals indicating what medication in what quantity should be taken from what container and any instruction for taking that medication.

The significant limitations of this class of inventions are that they are not mobile and only work at the location in question making them ineffective for mobile users requiring doses taken at different locations throughout the day. In addition they must be manually programmed lack features such as compliance analysis and are expensive and somewhat difficult to use.

The fourth category of prescription compliance inventions are compliance communications systems which are designed to alert the user of medications to be taken. U.S. Pat. No. 5 850 344 Medication dispensing and timing system issued to Conkright describes a system whereby a central monitoring computer sends medication prompts in accordance with a drug regimen over a two way paging system to a communicator carried by a patient. U.S. Pat. No. 5 872 505 Medication alert pager and paging system issued to Wicks and Sciammarella describes a system to assist a patient with treatment reminders whereby patient treatment data is maintained in a database by a paging systems provider and then transmitted to a pager carried by a medical practitioner to remind him or her to administer the treatment in question to the patient.

The significant limitations of this class of inventions are that these systems are not fully updated and automated do not aggregate or compile source data from a variety of data sources require an individual to program or transmit the relevant data lack the ability to analyze compliance lack features allowing users to customize and schedule their drug treatments and do not allow the addition of over the counter drugs vitamins or other alternative therapies to their notifications. In addition they do not have the capability for enhanced message content such as pill images Internet or WAP links with additional instructions and reply options and are not designed for use with intelligent mobile devices such as mobile phones PDAs RIM PocketPC and others.

The present invention was designed to overcome limitations of the prior art and provide consumers with a wireless prescription management and compliance solution which is cheap easy to use personalized automated and easily incorporated into their daily lives. The invention is designed for use with any mobile phone or wireless device so that the system is made easy to use even for individuals unskilled in the use of wireless or other technologies.

The system outlined in the invention is an integrated framework comprised of one or more primary health care database s a secondary database system and program module user interface and wireless messaging platform which is connected to wireless networks and wireless subscribers. The objective of the system is to provide users with an account to manage their prescription treatments and automated real time enhanced wireless prescription dosing reminders to increase the user s prescription compliance.

It does so by i enabling the user to set up a user account in order to access their source prescription data ii aggregating prescription data from a number of disparate sources so that the user s account is both complete and continually updated iii automatically scheduling prescribed doses to be taken by superimposing the user s source dosing indications with his or her selected hourly daily schedule and iv providing scheduled real time wireless prescription dosing reminders complete with text based dosing instructions pill images online and WAP resources audio video and compliance verification and other features. The system enables the user to further customize notifications for each prescription and add vitamins OTC drugs supplements and herbal remedies to their account so that they can comprehensively manage their entire health care regimen. Users can also view and analyze their compliance by responding to their wireless reminders through two way messaging WAP links or IVR sessions and viewing those statistics in the user interface.

In addition the system enables users to add authorized individuals to their account and direct their wireless prescription reminders to said individuals so that they may help administer and manage the user s prescription treatments.

Lastly the system allows the user to set up a notification system wherein selected individuals may be automatically notified and given specific protected health information in the event of an emergency or adverse event due to a particular drug dose taken.

This integrated framework enables automation and updating of the system so the user need not manually reprogram the system every time prescriptions are added terminated or changed. Users can simply customize their account once and use those settings for the term of their enrollment.

There are a number of alternatives for integrating the components that comprise this system framework. Different components and technologies may be adapted depending on the underlying primary database technologies used. For example one embodiment of the system framework involves aggregating and integrating one or more primary health care databases into a Microsoft SQL Server 2000 Enterprise Edition database or data warehouse using an open database connectivity ODBC database driver which executes the data migration and transformation process with Structured Query Language SQL based commands. This secondary database is then integrated into the wireless messaging platform by using Web Services middleware with a simple object access protocol SOAP interface. The wireless messaging platform may be connected to any number of wireless carriers for distribution of wireless messaging content to end users through mobile phones or other wireless devices. This XML over HTTP architecture allows for the streamlined incorporation of a Web based WAP or mobile application based user interface with the secondary database system used to customize the user s account manage prescriptions and drive wireless message content.

This proposed embodiment is only one of several which are known to those skilled in the art of wireless and database technologies and is in no way no way intended to be limiting. Other objects advantages and novel features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when evaluated in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In any of the aforementioned figures any of the primary database s secondary database system user interface and wireless messaging platform may be owned and or operated by one of the health care entities.

User specific prescription information is stored on a number of databases controlled by different classes of health care entities. These entities include pharmacies PBMs health insurance companies or health plans and EHR providers. This individually identifiable health information is termed protected health information under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 HIPAA . The aforementioned entities all maintain and share patient specific prescription and health information in order to manage health care medical treatments claims and billing for their customers and perform their business functions.

Of these entities pharmacies are still the primary source of user prescription source data and remain the primary suppliers of prescription drugs to individuals although mail order and online purchasing through PBMs is becoming increasingly popular. Pharmacies receive and process prescription orders from physicians which contain drug related information and indications for treatment. This data is loaded into the pharmacy s database network in order to authorize and dispense prescriptions process claims and billing and perform other health care operations on behalf of the individual. Examples of the data inputted by a pharmacy processing a prescription include data fields such as the user s name drug name NDC code dosage dosing duration treatment indications number of refills authorized physician s name and contra indications among others. In database terms pharmacy data sources include all electronic repositories of information that contain user specific prescription data of interest for management use or analytics.

In addition to the computers and local databases which organize and manage prescription orders for each retail outlet pharmacies now maintain central databases and servers which aggregate and consolidate patient specific data from their individual retails outlets. These central databases enable the pharmacies to maintain up to date information and drug histories for each customer so that the customer can receive value added prescription services such as checking for drug drug interactions warnings and other indications irrespective of the retail outlet from which the prescription is dispensed.

The detailed prescription information inputted at the branch pharmacy level is made available to the networked health care system through database systems which communicate store manage and process this PHI and health related information. These organizations use a range of databases systems and servers for this purpose. With reference to the present system the term primary health care database is used to encompass a number of formats for data storage and management. These primary health care databases may be comprised of legacy systems data warehouses relational databases database management systems DBMS online transaction processing system OLTP databases client server databases mainframe databases development test staging and production databases data marts and their servers among others. The properties and design of these database systems can vary widely as there are a variety of databases and technology platforms used by the different companies in the health care industry. Some of these include IBM DB2 Oracle Microsoft SQL Server Sybase Informix PostgreSQL Progress Apache Derby DB2 FileMaker Helix Informix Microsoft Access Sybase Teradata and other databases. There are also a varied number of DBMS such as Lotus Approach Microsoft Access and FileMaker Pro.

In addition to pharmacies each class of health care entity utilizes user specific prescription information and or HIPAA protected PHI in conjunction with their business function. For example health plans store member specific personal and medical health information in order to manage billing claims and medical treatments for their members. Most health plans now outsource prescription drug claims and billing to PBMs who administer drug benefit programs for employers and insurance companies as well as managing pharmacy benefits such as the purchasing dispensing and reimbursement for prescription drugs. PBMs consolidate a wide variety of prescription data and information on behalf of their members including user specific prescription information stored by multiple pharmacies. PBMs use the National Council of Prescription Drug Programs NCPDP Telecommunication Standard Version 5.1 to process pharmacy claims an electronic infrastructure by which in excess of 90 of retail pharmacies are connected. Since an individual may purchase their prescribed drugs from a variety of sources at any one time an individual s PBM may maintain the most up to date drug history for a particular individual. Electronic health record EHR providers are new networked entities whose function is to aggregate and consolidate member specific health care records for use by physicians and hospitals in patient treatments. These providers are just emerging and it has yet to be seen whether one provider can accurately consolidate medical information from all sources where a given patient interacts.

Although user specific prescription information is stored on a number of databases controlled by different health care entities individual users do not readily have access to this information in part or in whole.

Pharmacies PBMs health plans EHRs and other health care related entities in the United States are subject to extensive regulation by the Department of Health and Human Services HHS and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 HIPAA . Dispensing of prescriptions and management of prescription drug benefits require the ability to use an individual s PHI. PHI is any individually indentifiable health information created by or received from a health care provider health plan or clearinghouse related to the provision of healthcare or payment for healthcare which identifies or could reasonably be used to identify an individual and has been transmitted electronically or maintained in any other form or medium. At the federal level HIPAA and HHS have adopted extensive regulations governing the transmission use and disclosure of health information by all participants in healthcare delivery. Specifically HIPAA has created new federal Security and Privacy Standards regarding PHI and is currently making new rulings on electronic maintenance and transmission of PHI within and outside of the healthcare system.

As such users and other individuals must sign a HIPAA release to get access to this PHI and all entities involved in the proposed invention must be either HIPAA Covered Entities or sign Business Associate or Sub Business Associate Agreements with the Covered Entities to get access to an individual s PHI. Covered Entities include pharmacies health plans health care providers and other entities that transmit PHI in electronic form. Business Associates and Sub Business Associates include PBMs consultants auditors subcontractors and other entities that perform a business function or activity involving the use or disclosure of PHI on behalf of the Covered Entity. These entities and all databases servers and hosting methods used in the system by such qualified entities must comply with HIPAA Privacy and Security Standards for electronic PHI.

Source user specific prescription information is very important but it is of no use to the individual in its current electronic format. It must be aggregated personalized transformed adapted to the user s schedule and made available on standard technologies in order to be effective as a prescription management tool and compliance aid.

The secondary database system gives the user access to prescription source data that he or she would not normally be able to access or use in its original electronic format. Users may create access and modify a user account by using an interface which is integrated with the secondary database system. This user account is stored in the database within the secondary database system. Setting up and customizing a user account enables the user to aggregate customize enhance and manage their prescription source data for use in prescription management and compliance.

The secondary database system serves as the hub for the system as a whole. It aggregates transforms stores organizes manages and processes data being inputted and manipulated by each component of the system. The secondary database system program module receives processes and integrates data from the primary health care databases user interface and wireless messaging platform and creates transformed user output data fields and parameters which then drive the wireless prescription reminder service network notification and other features. The data inputs selections and settings in the user s account determine the message content parameters and system functionality for each user.

Data processed through the user interface and stored in the user account in the secondary database enables each user to manage their prescriptions and system features including scheduling wireless prescription dosing reminders managing their prescriptions and other OTC drugs and vitamins giving other individuals access to their data and setting up a networked notification service in the event of an emergency or adverse reaction to a dose taken. Information processed through the user interface may simply add information turn system triggers and features on and off create additional network connections for that user account or enhance enable and disable features which use the user s underlying data and information as drivers for those features.

Other outside data may also be incorporated into the secondary database system in order to provide enhanced information and content for prescription data stored in the user s account and used in the wireless reminder service. Examples of outside data include medication images marketing offers corporate logos icons and graphics Web and WAP links and other features. The secondary database system may also maintain additional integrated connections with communications platforms such as IVR systems GPRS systems autodialers and others which are a part of one or more of the system s functional features.

Specifically enrollment and verification logic verifies and processes prerequisite system sign up information and HIPAA PHI releases. Account creation logic creates a user account in the secondary database which is set up initially using default settings but with a full range of modifiable data fields settings and functions. Account sorting logic organizes and sorts accounts by social security number user name and or other personal identifiers. Data access logic initiates integration and communication between the secondary database system and primary health care databases through the selected integration architecture and enables the exchange of data between the two systems. Data access logic also enables integration communication and processing of data between the secondary database system user interface and wireless messaging platform . User data requesting logic and user data receiving logic outline the commands transformations links and tags which enable this data transfer between heterogeneous systems. User data requesting logic queries primary health care databases for data based on the user s record identifiers stipulated in account sorting logic . Data aggregation logic aggregates and compiles user specific prescription data from participating primary health care databases into each user s account. Interface incorporation logic incorporates data content and input selections from the user interface into the user s account. Content linking logic links integrates and consolidates additional content into user s account in order to enhance the user s prescription data and wireless prescription messages. This additional content may include pill images audio video logos informational Web or WAP links and other content stored on the database . Contact and notification logic creates additional network connections in the user s account and additional reply options for the wireless prescription reminder messages by verifying processing and adding additional contacts to the user s wireless reminder and notification system. Timing scheduling and billing logic amends the system s functionality for the user based on conditional logic using data fields and selections made on the interface . Output generation logic creates data field outputs or parameters derived from integrating user source prescription data with customized user account data selections modifications and additions from the interface . System execution logic sorts and processes data field outputs and parameters in conjunction with data and content in the user s account to drive the wireless messaging platform and its features. System execution logic then confirms execution of system processes and organizes execution data such as wireless prescription message receipts confirmed billing and other data in user s account. User compliance logic integrates additional reply options into the wireless prescription reminder messages and enables two way compliance data received from the user through the wireless messaging platform IVR session or other communication method. System storing logic stores user data settings outputs execution history and other information from the user s account in sequential time based files in the secondary database . System updating logic automatically updates the user s account at given time intervals for changes in the user account due to system execution time lapsed and new and modified data from the primary health care databases user interface and wireless messaging platform .

Lastly the secondary database system is integrated with all primary health care databases the user interface and the wireless messaging platform . The integrated nature of the framework results in a continually automated and updated system so that the user need not reprogram the system or settings for each new prescription change in dosing or other event.

To achieve full automation and functionality the primary database s and secondary database system must be connected and integrated so that data methods objects schema and other parameters from the primary database s may be updated and made available to the secondary database system on a continual basis. Some existing primary database engines natively support common methods for producing connectivity such as using extensible markup language XML for integration of relational data. XML is a meta markup language that provides a format for describing structured data. Unlike HTML XML does not handle the presentation of data. Instead the tags used to encompass the data are used to describe the data. This allows for a simplified passing of data between two programs. There are a number of methods for utilizing XML over a network to enable connectivity and inter operability including XML RPC Web Services Middleware and other systems.

Certain existing primary databases also have data transformation service DTS enhancements so that the DBMS can perform tasks or set variables based on properties of the run time environment such as importing data from and sending data and completed packages to Internet and FTP sites running packages asynchronously building packages that send messages to each other building packages that execute other packages or joining multiple package executions as part of a transaction. Other enhancements include data mining data analysis HTTP or HTTPS connections linked cubes drillthough multi user administration meta data enhancements and other features.

Pharmacy PBM health plan and EHR technology platforms are often run on a variety of different proprietary technologies and use a variety of different hardware databases programming languages and operating systems to manage their data. Extracting and integrating data from heterogeneous database environments presents a number of data access challenges related to the disparate number of technologies used in each system. As a result system integration with multiple primary databases may be effected within the secondary database system program module through one or more of the following data integration methods which use data abstraction loose application couplings application programming interfaces technology bridges middleware objects and other protocols and technologies.

Data warehousing using extraction transformation and loading ETL can be perceived architecturally as a tightly coupled approach because the data reside together in a single repository at query time. During the process of data migration data from several sources is extracted transformed and loaded into a database or data warehouse where it may be queried with a single schema. The ETL meta data functional element is responsible for maintaining information about the movement and transformation of data and the operation of the data warehouse. There are a number of homogenous or heterogeneous ETL architectures for integration with single or multiple data sources. Data migration and ETL can be done at several levels in the database architecture including at the repository primary or central database or data warehouse level including sub sets of the source data such as dependent data marts logical data marts and operational data stores among others. The end result is a real time and integrated data warehouse derived from multiple heterogeneous sources.

Alternative data integration solutions use data abstraction to address the data access challenges associated with data heterogeneity and data contextualization. These integration solutions include enterprise application integration EAI solutions such as the enterprise service bus ESB enterprise information integration EII solutions such as those using APIs and bridges including ODBC JDBC OLE DB or ADO.NET Service Oriented Architectures SOA using Web Services SOAP or XML RPC Middleware such as Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM and Distributed Component Object Model DCOM among others.

Enterprise Application Integration EAI solutions are used to share data between applications as well as processes. A health care entity may have existing legacy applications and databases and want to continue to use them while adding or migrating to a new set of applications that exploit the Internet e commerce extranet and other new technologies. An EAI architectural system can address large scale inter disciplinary problems with multiple heterogeneous distributed systems that are embedded in networks at multiple levels. EAI encompasses methodologies such as object oriented programming distributed cross platform program communication using message brokers the modification of enterprise resource planning ERP to fit new objectives enterprise wide content and data distribution using common databases and data standards implemented with the extensible markup language XML middleware message queuing and other approaches. It is currently thought that the best approach to EAI is to use an enterprise service bus ESB which connects numerous independent systems together. The advantages of EAI are enabling real time information access among systems streamlining business processes and maintaining information integrity across multiple systems.

Enterprise Information Integration EII solutions involve using data abstraction to circumvent issues with data access and translation. There are a number of standardized data access application programming interfaces APIs such as open database connectivity ODBC Java database connectivity JDBC OLE DB and PERL DBI which provide a standard software API method for using DBMS. These APIs provide bridges for connectivity extraction and translation by creating homogeneous data representations for heterogeneous and disparate data sources. Regardless of which Eli product is chosen there is essentially a common four step process involved subject to variation based on the back end technology used by the primary health care database.

EII products enable loose couplings between applications associated with the secondary database system and the heterogeneous primary health care data sources. EII products translate heterogeneous data into commonly used formats such as SQL XML data returning web services and other URI based resources. This process entails linking the secondary database system to an applicable driver such as ODBC JDBC OLE DB or PERL DBI which serves as a bridge between the primary database and programming language used by the secondary database system program module selecting a programming language such as ASP PHP or PERL that enables execution of SQL or other commands against it and finally processing the information using a discrete or composite Web Service Dynamic HTML XHTML XML Web Page or XML transformation and integrating the data over an open connection. In this way a single EII product can provide access to data in several relational database tables each associated with a different database engine from a different database vendor and associated with a myriad of enterprise applications.

Service Oriented Architectures SOA are a style of information system architectures that enable the creation of applications built by combining loosely coupled and interoperable services. Like EII these services inter operate based on or using a standard language which is independent of the underlying platform and programming language. In this way SOA removes some of the restrictions that proprietary software systems impose on data integration. SOA compliant systems can therefore be independent of the development technologies and platforms employed by different primary health acre entities.

There are a variety of custom built designs and interfaces in a SOA based system. One class of SOA architecture employs the use of the Web Service Protocol Stack. Web Services connect disparate systems and resources together via a universal language and framework. Web Services typically uses XML as the mark up language to describe data in message payloads HTTP as the response request protocol SOAP REST RPC or another method for exchanging XML based or other messages over a computer network WSDL to describe the public interface protocol bindings and message formats required for interaction with the service and a listing in a UDDI registry.

Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM and now .NET are Microsoft proprietary technologies used to enable software components distributed across several networked computers to communicate with each other. They provide the communication substrate under Microsoft s COM and .NET application server infrastructure. The first service oriented architecture used in the past was DCOM in conjunction with the use of Object Request Brokers ORBs . ORBs are pieces of middleware that allow programmers to make program calls from one computer to another via a network. DCOM is designed for use across multiple network transports including Internet protocols such as HTTP.

Common Object Request Broker Architectures CORBA a form of Middleware wrap code written in some programming language into a bundle containing additional information on the capabilities of the code inside and how to call it. The resulting wrapped objects can then be called from other programs or CORBA objects over the network. CORBA can be considered a machine readable documentation format similar to a header file found in a SOAP envelope but with considerably more information. CORBA uses an Interface Definition Language IDL to specify the interfaces that objects will present to both client and server and then specifies a mapping from IDL to a specific implementation programming language. Both standard and non standard mappings exist for ORBs written for those languages. General and Internet Inter Orb Protocol GIOP IIOP are abstract protocols by which ORBs can communicate over networks and TCP IP. Using IOP a CORBA based program can interoperate with another CORBA based program from any vendor on any operating system network or programming language. CORBA therefore enables integration of multiple primary health care databases with disparate operating systems and programming languages by linking each to the same interface.

There are a number of variations and enhancements to CORBA including Java RMI IIOP the CORBA component model and OMG s data distribution service DDS among others. There are a wide variety of commercial implementations of CORBA designed for use with specific platforms and programming languages.

Microsoft ActiveX Data Objects ADO is a set of COM objects for accessing data sources. It provides a layer between database programming languages and OLE DB by which a program can be integrated to access data on the underlying database. ADO.NET is an upgraded version of ADO for use with Microsoft s .NET framework. ADO.NET provides consistent access to data sources such as Microsoft SQL Server as well as data sources exposed through EII APIs such as OLE DB and XML. ADO.NET provides access to relational data XML and application data and supports a variety of development needs including the creation of front end databases for integration and middle tier business objects used by applications tools languages or Internet browsers. The ADO.NET platform allows for enterprise data integration and the creation of data sharing consumer applications which can connect to these data sources and retrieve manipulate and update data. The ADO.NET architecture is comprised of i a data provider that provides the connection translation commands and a bridge used to transfer data between a data source and ii the DataSet a data source neutral relational database. ObjectSpaces are a new set of data access APIs for the Microsoft .NET Framework which treat data as objects independent of the underlying data store and encapsulate their physical structure of tables rows and columns. These ObjectSpaces objects can be used to retrieve data from the datastore navigate data using its relationships modify the data and commit the changes back on the datastore. ObjectSpaces have classes which enable connections to both relational databases and XML data stores. These classes can be extended to create adapters for other types of data stores as well. There are a number of ADO.NET variations and providers including Microsoft Simba Technologies DataDirect Technologies OpenLink Software and others.

There are a number of variations implementations and alternatives to each of these data integration solutions as a result of the diversity in software hardware databases operating systems and programming languages employed by different health care entities. The convenience of these data integration solutions is that new sources can be added by simply constructing an adapter for them. An ETL system or single database solution may also be used where the entire new dataset must be manually integrated into the system. Regardless of the type of integration solution selected each accomplishes the objective of this component in the system which is to integrate aggregate update and automate the secondary database system with the source data from one or more disparate primary health care entity databases.

The system utilizes a user and or system interface and processor which is integrated with the secondary database system and may be integrated with the wireless messaging platform as well. The interface allows users and system administrators to access add delete amend and otherwise modify data fields switches and settings relevant to the user s account within the system. The interface may be a secure website accessible from any PC or other Web based device graphical user interface GUI Web based WAP mobile application based or other interface which allows integration and communication between the interface and secondary database system.

The interface may be set to a default setting upon establishing a user account and then customized as desired. For example the interface may use default settings including i a daily schedule setting of 7 am 10 pm with a hour lead time in the morning and pre set meal times at 7 30 am 12 30 pm and 7 pm ii billing by the user s wireless carrier iii no additional individuals linked to the account iv no additional contacts for the notification service and v no set up or use of compliance analysis using two way messaging.

In one example if a prescription were incorporated into the user s account from a primary health care database that stipulated three times a day dosing for that medication the secondary database system program module would create dosing output data fields using conditional logic by superimposing and processing the user s default schedule with the prescription dosing indications stored in the secondary database system. The system would then automatically schedule and transmit wireless prescription dosing reminders evenly spaced at 7 30 am 2 45 pm and 10 00 pm for the duration of the medication term.

However since no two users have the same preferences the interface allows users to specify and customize system settings and features based on their individual needs and preferences. For instance not every user s schedule is the same and a user may wish to have another individual assist them with medication management evaluate their treatments in terms of actual versus perceived compliance and set up a notification network in case of adverse events or emergencies.

In another example a user could set their daily schedule to 10 am 1 am with meal times at 10 30 am 2 pm and 10 pm select multiple primary data sources such as CVS and Walgreen s pharmacies give their spouse access to their account data and direct their wireless prescription reminder service to their spouse s mobile phone activate compliance analysis in order to evaluate their compliance in relation to treatment and set up and authorize a notification network including their spouse parents and physician in the event of emergencies. If a prescription from each pharmacy was then incorporated into the user s account stipulating i three times a day dosing and ii doses taken with meals the secondary database system program module would process the amended data fields and settings in conjunction with the primary source prescription data to arrive at new system parameters for that user. The system would subsequently schedule wireless prescription dosing reminders for 10 30 am 5 45 pm 1 00 am and 10 30 am 2 00 pm and 10 00 pm for each respective medication directed and billed to their spouse s mobile phone with two way messaging reply features enabled and EMS notification contacts including their spouse parents physician and local hospital.

In general the interface allows the user to access their personal account and aggregate multiple data sources customize data settings and system functions personalize the content timing recipients and other aspects of their wireless prescription reminders and view other inputs and outputs of the system such as graphs outlining compliance analysis.

The object of the wireless messaging platform is to generate format and transmit wireless prescription reminder messages which are automatically scheduled and transmitted to the user s mobile phone or wireless device at the appropriate dosing times for each drug the user is taking. The standard wireless message delivery protocol for 2G 3G mobile phones is an audible alert accompanied by the message display on the user s screen or mobile display and a required response by the user to close or reply to the message. In most cases there is no handset programming for the user to do.

The wireless prescription reminders received by users are derived from the data and content stored in the secondary database system. Specifically the settings features parameters and output for each wireless message comes from a user account in the secondary database which is the result of integrating and processing data from the primary health care databases and user interface.

The wireless messaging platform can deliver messages to the user s mobile phone and wireless device as well as voicemail and email based on the information stored in the user s account. Wireless messages may be delivered using different formats such as SMS EMS MMS WAP WAP Push BREW SIP HTML and XHTML. These message formats may include standard text formatted and enhanced text pictures graphics icons audio video or other multi media content. Wireless messages may be mobile originated MO mobile terminated MT and priced as bulk or premium content. Standardized formats may be used based on the data contained in the message and the specific type of message being transmitted.

In order to give all users access to the system it is critical to offer this prescription management and compliance solution on the devices users prefer. The platform supports diverse wireless technologies such as 2G 2.5G and 3G mobile phones Smartphones WAP phones personal digital assistants PDAs Research In Motion RIM Palm Web Pocket PC and other devices. It is fully functional with a variety of wireless device operating systems including Palm OS Pocket PC RIM Epoc Qtopia Helix Symbian Smartphone WAP BREW J2ME iMode J Phone Windows Mobile Linux and others.

The platform provides intelligent message formatting depending on the settings in the user s account and capabilities of the user s wireless device. Examples of optimized data delivery to all device types include intelligently rendering messages to the screen size of diverse mobile devices intelligent formatting messages depending on the device capabilities like one way two way WAP and Palm intelligent routing for global inter carrier messaging enterprise class end to end security including login on all the interfaces encryption and SSL using digital certificates for authentication and security. The wireless messaging platform can also deliver a selective messaging solution with a blend of media based on the device type specified in the user s account i.e. audio and text messaging for SMS devices text graphics and audio for WAP devices or text graphics audio and video for MMS devices . An enhanced messaging solution capable of delivering blended media within a single application optimizes the end user experience and improves observance and compliance with the user s prescription drug treatment.

The platform also supports inter carrier messaging that is device and carrier agnostic as well as all popular mobile and paging protocols including TDMA CDMA CDMA2000 GSM PCS PCN Flex CDPD Mobitex GPRS EDGE WiDEN UMTS W CDMA HSPDA HSUPA and 4G. It processes both outgoing and incoming messages and data via one and two way messaging and incorporates that data back into the secondary database system for further use and additional features.

Mobile phones PDAs and other wireless devices are now standard technologies which are used by over 70 of the U.S. population. The benefits of deploying the system through wireless phones and devices are i that consumers are already educated and well versed in the use of mobile phone and device technologies ii there is no need to purchase additional equipment iii portability convenience and ease of use iv real time message delivery and v reinforcement of the user s prescription treatments through technology association since the system is linked to a device which is already perpetually present and used by the individual. In effect since the mobile phone is already incorporated into the individual s daily routine anything which is subsequently functionally linked to the device becomes integrated into the routine as well. By increasing presence awareness and automation the system overcomes a number of the obstacles which prevent prescription compliance for most individuals.

The wireless messaging platform also provides the user with enhanced prescription health care features such as i compliance analysis ii real time health care assistance and iii real time emergency medical service notification.

Compliance analysis is derived from user based interactive responses to the wireless prescription messages indicating compliance or non compliance with that dosing event. The response may take the form of a two way or MO based reply to the initial message with a Y or N a message sent to a predetermined short code a WAP Push link an IVR Interactive Voice Response session a link or communication to a phone number or other method. Responses are processed by the wireless messaging platform and secondary database system and stored for compilation and analysis. The stored data may then be transformed into a graphical or other format and accessed through the user interface for viewing and interpretation of actual versus perceived compliance with that prescription drug treatment.

The health care assistance and emergency notification systems are intended to assist individuals who are having adverse medical reactions by providing emergency support in the form of family health care professional and location based emergency medical service support.

For example in the case of real time health care assistance a user may initiate the notification service by sending an MO based message with a specific character key rely message to a specific short code initiating an IVR session through an embedded phone number or using WAP Push to enter IP based data. The secondary database system and wireless messaging platform can process the data and enable several options including i having their selected physician notified of the event ii notifying their selected emergency contact or iii notifying selected third parties such as family members. Notification may take the form of an automated call email wireless message or other communication and contacted parties may be provided with information on the user and their prescription and dosing information in order to streamline assistance for the user.

In the case of emergency medical service notification in addition to the processes and notifications carried out for health care assistance the system may also notify location based real time emergency medical services that emergency assistance is required. The integration of the system with the user s mobile phone provides for added mobile functionality through the use of RTLS real time location services . RTLS are a new breed of wireless network service that integrate location tracking capabilities with existing 802.11 Wi Fi wireless networks to allow real time location of users wherever wireless network coverage is provided. Systems such as the Cisco 2700 Wireless Location Appliance or the Ekahau Positioning Engine can display the location of wireless devices laptops PDAs or any item carrying an radio frequency identification RFID tag or Wi Fi tag on screen graphically and in real time. By using these resources an EMS response can be initiated and dispatched in real time according to the precise location of the mobile individual.

Specifically sorting logic sorts specified parameters in the user s account within the secondary database including time time zone user name output data fields and others. Recipient logic determines the message recipients including names phone numbers email addresses and other contact details from the user s account in the secondary database . Scheduling logic sorts and queues the message order based on a predetermined time to transmission and other settings. Message format logic selects the user s message format based on data outputs interface selections and or device selections stored in the user s account within the secondary database . Message content inclusions and limitations are determined by message format and corresponding parameters stored in the user s account within the secondary database . Message feature logic incorporates two way messaging reply options and health care assistance and EMS buttons or reply options into message content or features based on settings in the user s account within the secondary database . Billing and claims logic determines processes for billing including the user s wireless account other recipient s wireless account or other billing and claims methods based on settings in the user s account within the secondary database . Message generation logic processes and generates wireless messages based on data and content in the user s account within the secondary database . Message generation logic determines alphanumeric limitations associated with device displays message format and other parameters and may create concatenated or additional messages based on the data needed to complete the transmission. Message transmission logic formats the data into packets and transmits and distributes messages via a modem ISDN device wireless network device TCP IP connection or other method. Message routing logic routes messages through wireless carriers and networks to the end users. Application content can connect to the wireless network operator via a fixed wire line or wireless network interface using protocols like short message peer to peer SMPP external machine interface universal computer protocol EMI UCP computer interface to message distribution CIMD and open interface specification OIS which are then connected to either a short message service centre SMSC messaging gateway or content aggregator. To better handle volume message handling and processing may make use of an always up to date AUTD server batch loader or other bulk message processing queuing system. Message verification logic verifies message delivery receipt time of receipt and other information from the SMSC and wireless carrier corresponding to the individual s wireless service. Message verification logic also processes and stores said data on the secondary database for billing and claims. Data receiving logic receives and processes user data from MO replies two way data transfers IVR sessions short code messages and other methods into the secondary database system for storage or processing. Notification logic processes data transfers and system notification responses in conjunction with the secondary database system . Notification logic then i determines contacts and content for notifications from secondary database output parameters ii formats generates transmits routes and verifies notification messages or other communications in a form similar to the one described above herein and iii incorporates pertinent user data and content into those notifications including user name drug name dose time taken RTLS location or other information.

The wireless messaging platform is functionally integrated with the secondary database system and is directly and or indirectly integrated with the wireless carriers and wireless networks which route transmit and deliver mobile content to wireless subscribers.

The wireless messaging platform may be integrated with the secondary database system and use different APIs or layers such as Web Services SOAP Java 2 platform micro edition J2ME distributed component object model DCOM Java remote method invocation RMI CORBA WAP BREW Java mobile information device profile Java MIDP computer interface to message distribution CIMD XML RPC and others. The data from the secondary database system is made accessible to these APIs through a variety of API interfaces and communication layers such as HTTP SMPP SMTP FTP XML .NET COM Object RPC SOA REST and others.

There are a number of software alternatives which define the API communication protocol and object service information models that then enable applications running on various platforms to interoperate. Most wireless platforms now employ wireless open standard protocols and technologies on some level. Open standards such as short message peer to peer SMPP hyper text transfer protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP Extensible Markup Language XML Web Services and SOAP are publicly available and implementable standards which enable development and integration regardless of the underlying type of software or hardware. There are a number of different ways to blend and implement both open standard and proprietary architectures. For example different products and platforms may be created by combining APIs or API layers API interfaces linked programming languages and security implementations and by introducing other SOA EAI and EII components into the platform. One example of such an implementation would be an open source implementation of a two way SOAP to CORBA bridge.

One sample open standard API protocol is Web Services which may be used to generate and process the user based prescription content used in the wireless prescription reminders. Web Services may be implemented using a variety of communications protocols and architectures including remote procedure call RPC service oriented architectures SOA and representational state transfer REST . There are a number of core specifications which may be selected modified or substituted based on the underlying technologies or other specifications.

In one embodiment SOAP forms the foundation layer of the Web Services stack providing a basic messaging framework which more abstract layers can build on. SOAP uses an XML based extensible message envelope format with bindings to underlying protocols e.g. HTTP SMTP TCP IP and XMPP . The Web service may use Web Services description language WSDL an XML based service description on how to communicate using the web service and specifying the protocol bindings and message formats required to interact with the web services listed in its directory. Special datatypes may be embedded in the WSDL file in the form of XML Schema. Web services typically use a universal description discovery and integration UDDI registry which is designed to be interrogated by SOAP messages and to provide access to WSDL documents describing the protocol bindings and message formats required to interact with the web services listed in its directory. To create secure communications a Web Service security WSS communications protocol contains specifications on how integrity and confidentiality can be enforced on Web Services messaging. It defines how to use XML encryption and XML signatures in SOAP to secure message exchanges. Integrity and confidentiality can also be enforced through the use of a transport security layer TLS . Lastly the Web Service uses a Web Services reliable exchange protocol for reliable messaging between two Web Services. There are a number of organizations such as OASIS W3C and WS I which define and provide standards and specifications Web Services and Web Services messaging.

Other alternatives to SOAP in the WS Stack include XML remote procedure call protocol XML RPC JavaScript object notation RPC JSON RPC XML interface for network services XINS Burlap Global XML Web Services architecture GXA Hessian Web Service Protocol representational state transfer REST plain old XML over HTTP POX HTTP Modbus and blocks extensible exchange protocol BEEP among others.

In terms of messaging and network compatibility SMS is currently transmitted over the GSM network while EMS is available on the CDMA TDMA and GSM networks. Transmission of SMS and EMS between the SMSC and mobile device can be done through different protocols such as the traditional circuit based SS7 network within the GSM MAP framework or TCP IP within the same standard. MMS is designed to work with mobile packet data services such as GPRS EDGE or CDMA2000 although some control messages may still traverse the SS7 signaling network. WAP and WAP Push are designed to operate on competing networks such as GSM and CDMA. SMS is used as a transport to implement the WAP stack on top of the SMSC bear. BREW is air interface independent and supported by GSM GPRS UMTS 3GSM and CDMA. SIP is a protocol which defines a method of passing instant messages between endpoints similar to SMS. SIP is a peer to peer protocol and requires a simple core network distributed to the networked edge and embedded in endpoints. Newer versions of IM are enabling real time text based communication to take place over various wireless networks instead of the just over the Internet. Messaging compatibility with wireless networks will continue to evolve as handsets and systems are upgraded from 2G to 3G and 3.5G networks such as W CDMA HSPDA and HSUPA.

In the future wireless messaging architectures will migrate toward 3G all IP based infrastructures as wireless messaging traffic and the need for bandwidth increases. Future alternatives will include i the use of Signaling Transport SIGTRAN technology with translation protocol layers to take traditional SS7 traffic from a circuit based network to a packet based IP network and ii use of a first delivery attempt FDA at the edge of the mobile network providing a message handling function where SMS traffic is intercepted offloaded from the SS7 network and delivered using IP based massaging protocols.

The wireless messaging platform s ultimate function is to provide users with automated real time wireless prescription dosing reminders and networked services to assist users with prescription management and compliance. This would not be possible without the integration of the various components which comprise this system framework.

The foregoing disclosure system configuration and methods for integrating system components has been set forth merely to illustrate the invention and are not intended to be limiting. Since modifications of the disclosed embodiments incorporating the spirit and substance of the invention may occur to persons skilled in the art the invention should be construed to include everything within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

