---

title: Optimal sleep / paging cycle duration in a wireless network
abstract: Systems and methods for optimizing paging cycles in a wireless communication system are disclosed. An access terminal can include logic configured to determine an optimal paging cycle and logic configured to set the paging cycle based on the optimal paging cycle, where the paging cycle varies based on at least one optimizing metric.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08923895&OS=08923895&RS=08923895
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08923895
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070928
---
The present application claims priority to PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2007 080002 filed Sep. 28 2007 which claims priority to provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 827 424 entitled OPTIMAL SLEEP CYCLE DURATION FOR HANDSETS IN A WIRELESS NETWORK filed Sep. 28 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention generally relates to communications in a wireless environment. More particularly the invention relates to optimizing paging sleep cycles in a wireless communication system.

Wireless communication systems developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile devices referred to as mobile stations handsets access terminals and or user terminals receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. In order to aid in providing coverage each cell is often sub divided into multiple sectors each corresponding to a smaller service area or geographic region. An array or series of base stations placed adjacent to each other form a communication system capable of servicing a number of system users over a larger region.

Typically each mobile station monitors a control channel that can be used to exchange messages between the mobile station and the base station. The control channel is used to transmit system overhead messages whereas traffic channels are typically used for substantive communication e.g. voice and data to and from the mobile station. For example the control channel can be used to establish traffic channels control power levels and the like as is known in the art.

Additionally since the mobile stations are typically battery operated power conservation is emphasized in the system design. Accordingly mobile stations can go into sleep cycles and periodically awaken to monitor the control channel for messages paging directed to the mobile station. However the responsiveness of the communication system can suffer because the sleep state imposes additional delay in establishing communications to the mobile station. The degradation of the system responsiveness increases as the duration of the sleep cycles increases. In systems with long sleep cycles the system responsiveness may not be acceptable for all applications. Accordingly system engineers may face a trade off between poor power conservation and poor responsiveness.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for optimizing paging sleep cycles in a wireless communication system while maintaining some level of power conservation.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a method comprising determining an optimal paging cycle and setting a paging cycle of an access terminal based on the optimal paging cycle wherein the optimal paging cycle varies over time based on at least one optimizing metric.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus comprising logic configured to determine an optimal paging cycle and logic configured to set a paging cycle on an access terminal based on the optimal paging cycle wherein the optimal paging cycle varies over time based on at least one optimizing metric.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal comprising means for determining an optimal paging cycle and means for setting a paging cycle of the access terminal based on the optimal paging cycle wherein the paging cycle varies over time based on at least one optimizing metric.

Another embodiment of the invention can include computer readable media embodying a method for optimizing paging cycles the method comprising determining an optimal paging cycle and setting a paging cycle of an access terminal based on the optimal paging cycle wherein the optimal paging cycle varies over time based on at least one optimizing metric.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation. In this description the terms mobile station handset access terminal AT and wireless device are used interchangeably. The terms sleep and start up as used herein to mean the power management of shutting down all or partial power to the mobile station s modem antenna transmitter and or receiver modules. An AT that is in the sleep mode does not monitor the Control Channel or any over the air messages that are transmitted in the network.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller and or mobile switching center MSC . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals. The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation wireless network carrier the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a MPC MSC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC MSC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC MSC is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS MPC MSC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated.

Referring to the access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention may include an access terminal comprising logic configured to determine an optimal paging cycle and logic configured to set the paging cycle based on the optimal paging cycle wherein the paging cycle varies over time based on at least one optimizing metric. As used herein the term optimal paging cycle does not necessarily mean a minimum paging cycle available. For example in some instances the determined optimal paging cycle may be an increased paging cycle based on one or more optimizing metrics e.g. a low battery condition . Likewise as used herein the term optimizing metric refers to any condition value data and or variable that can be used in the determination of the optimal paging cycle. Examples of determining the optimal paging cycle and optimizing metrics are discussed below. Further as discussed above the logic can be embodied in any combination of software and or hardware configured to perform the described functions. For example an application operating on access terminal may include all the logic elements discussed above. Alternatively an application may only contain selected logic elements that interact with one or more other resident applications and or hardware elements e.g. API layer processor ASIC memory and the like containing the remaining logic to perform the functionality describe herein.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and MPC MSC . The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed in the background paging can be used to notify an access terminal e.g. wireless device that a communication directed to that terminal is available. Typically the access terminal monitors a non traffic channel e.g. control channel to check for paging directed to the access terminal. When an access terminal receives the paging information a traffic channel can then be established between the access terminal and radio access network RAN .

Since wireless devices are typically resource limited in terms of power it is advantageous to set the wireless device into a low power or sleep mode as is known in the art. However entering a sleep mode will typically increase the delay for receiving paging information from the RAN which can degrade the overall responsiveness of the wireless device and wireless communication. The following description is directed to a 1xEV DO system to illustrate various aspects of embodiments of the invention. However the invention is not to be construed as being limited to these embodiments.

For example as illustrated in wireless devices in standard 1xEV DO operate with a 5.12 second paging cycle . The 5.12 second paging cycle is comprised of twelve 426.66 ms Control Channel Cycles CC Cycle . During session configuration the RAN can map the wireless device to one e.g. of these 12 Control Channel Cycles so that it may page the mobile on a 5.12 second boundary. Further in each CC Cycle data including paging data can be communicated in both synchronous capsules SC and asynchronous capsules AC . The SCs occur in a predictable position in the CC Cycle which is based on a defined control channel offset . In contrast the ACs can occur at any time there is not a . While the standard 5.12 second paging cycle is adequate for many applications it is far too long for delay sensitive applications.

Communication setup e.g. a push to talk PTT QChat call setup is impacted directly and predominantly by the duration an access terminal AT sleeps. As discussed above the AT wakes up periodically to read the Control Channel capsule to check for incoming calls as well as update overhead parameters e.g. pilot set maintenance . In order to achieve sub second call setup the AT should wake up more frequently e.g. every 213 milliseconds in 1xEV DO release A . However the amount of energy depleted when the AT wakes up every 213 ms can be significant and directly reduces the standby time of the AT. The AT typically remains awake for a number of slots every paging cycle in current implementations. The energy depletion is in proportion to the amount of time it stays awake. Significant improvements in battery life are possible if the call setup latency is slightly increased. Accordingly optimizing the sleep paging cycle can significantly impact both performance and standby time in the access terminal.

An application e.g. QChat can determine and configure the sleep duration for an AT to the maximum value possible based on a set of criteria that will impact the predicted performance of the application. For example for a QChat PTT application one or more of the following inputs may be considered in setting the sleep duration paging cycle 

Estimate of Rate of Call Arrival Rate in the next T units of time e.g. minutes This can be determined by each AT by determining the time or arrival of each incoming call. This information can be estimated by the QChat PTT AT using a simple counter for each interval of time for example.

Available Energy Reserve at the AT This information can be made available to QChat PTT Application via an internal API e.g. iBattery in BREW .

These inputs can be used independently or prioritized for use in combination. For example the call setup latency e.g. sub second QChat call setup could be prioritized over the call failure rate due to battery drain. However these could also be adjusted based on the system conditions. For example if the battery of an AT drains quickly it may not be able to receive calls until the battery is charged. In order to decrease the probability of failed calls due to battery drain it may be necessary to increase the sleep standby time at the expense of call setup latency.

Accordingly in at least one embodiment of the invention the access terminal can adjust the time before it enters as sleep standby mode. The access terminal can then wake up from the sleep mode to check the control channel for any overhead messages. Therefore the wireless device can reduce its power consumption while still being operative during the designated periods e.g. every 213 ms to monitor the control channel and reduce the latency. The latency is reduced because the wireless device will be paged within the shorter cycle e.g. 213 ms as opposed to the longer sleep mode paging cycle e.g. 5.12 sec. . When data arrives at the RAN targeted for the wireless device the RAN is aware of the shorter sleep cycle and schedules a page for the next control channel cycle as opposed to delaying for the 5.12 sec. cycle.

For example the QChat PTT Application can configure the paging cycle by using a BREW extension or an API if one is available. This BREW extension API can allow the QChat application to initiate configuration of the SlottedMode attribute associated with the 1xEV DO Rev. A Enhanced Idle State protocol for example. The parameters of the SlottedMode attribute are illustrated in . The AT and the RAN can use the Generic Attribute Update Protocol GAUP to update this attribute. However other equivalent means can be used in other wireless networks that permit the setting of paging cycles and embodiments of the invention are not limited to 1xEV DO networks and QChat PTT applications.

The standby time of an AT with a paging cycle set to 5.12 seconds is approximately 24 times higher than the standby time when operating at a 213 ms paging cycle. The current drain on conventional devices is about 28 mA when reading the Control Channel while it is about 0.9 mA when in the sleep mode. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the gains in standby time are significant even for small increases to the call setup latency. Optimizing the use of the reduced sleep cycle mode reduced paging cycle allows for improved responsiveness of the application and standby time. For example if the call arrival rate for a QChat user shows similar characteristics every day then the call arrival estimation algorithm can result in significant gains in standby time and still allow for reduced QChat call setup latency. Assume for instance that a user typically only receives QChat PTT calls between 7 am 9 am and 2 pm 4 pm. Then the call arrival estimation program in combination with the ability to adjust the sleep cycle can place the AT in the reduced sleep paging cycle time during these periods of likely call activity. The remaining time can use a standard sleep page cycle which will improve standby performance. By increasing the standby time of the AT it is possible to increase the ultimate likelihood of the AT receiving a call. This can be achieved by associating a penalty function for call drops. This penalty function will help bias the sleep cycle of the AT to a higher value gracefully as the energy reserve of the AT decreases. Further a Quality of Service framework can be determined based on the call setup latency for various customer profiles. For example business and emergency groups may be given lower call setup latency guarantees while consumers may be provided increased standby time at the expense of call setup latency.

Referring to a signal flow diagram in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention is illustrated. For example an application e.g. QChat can issue a request for the API to set a desired paging cycle. The API receives the request and may perform additional processing on the request and then forwards the request to the Advanced Mobile Station Systems AMSS layer . The AMSS layer sets the value of the attribute e.g. X in accordance with the request. The attribute X is the SlottedMode attribute that includes parameters that control the paging cycle of the access terminal see e.g. . The attribute X is then sent as part of an Attribute Update Request message using the Generic Attribute Update Protocol GAUP to the RAN . The RAN processes this value in accordance with the network protocols e.g. 1xEV DO standard . If the RAN accepts the proposed setting X an Attribute Update Accept message or failure message if not accepted is transmitted to the access terminal. The AMSS layer can receive and process this message and then passes it to the requesting API . The API then forwards the result to the requesting application as a confirmation of the new paging cycle or failure .

As discussed in the foregoing embodiments of the invention can be used to enhance the responsiveness of applications and still maintain acceptable battery performance. For example one aspect of the invention is to maximize standby time given constraints on the delay in setting up QChat calls PTT calls. One example of a constraint is to ensure that 95 percent of the mobile terminated QChat calls are placed when the access terminal is operating at a 213 ms paging cycle. Other paging cycles of operation may include 426 ms 1.28 sec 2.56 sec and 5.12 sec. To achieve a desired constraint different algorithms may be used depending on the system conditions.

For example one algorithm may be based on the time of day. The AT can determine which paging cycle it should operate at based on a given time of day. For example for a daytime user the paging cycle could be set to 213 ms from 7 am to 11 pm and to a higher paging cycle between 11 01 pm and 6 59 am. The algorithm could further be extended to include other considerations. For example the carrier can determine what the time intervals should be when the AT registers with an application server e.g. QChat Server . The server could apply a different setting based on the profile of the user i.e. daytime nighttime or something in between the two. The server could determine this based on the call history of the user or let the user manually indicate his preference.

In another algorithm an adaptive algorithm the AT can collect statistics of past calls and generates a call arrival distribution vs. time e.g. within a day . After a sufficient number of samples have been collected the AT can then use this probability distribution function e.g. call arrival vs. time to determine when to set the reduced paging cycle. For example the AT can sort the probabilities of call arrivals from high to low and set the paging cycle to 213 ms for those time intervals that map to the top 95 of the calls. Additional corrections can be added adaptively based on how close the algorithm meets the constraint. These corrections would refine the duration for which the AT remains awake at a 213 ms paging cycle by taking into account variability in the call arrival pattern with respect to the predicted distribution. The more correlated the arrival of calls with respect to time the better the performance of the algorithm. Limits e.g. based on empirical data calculations can also be set to prevent the algorithm from using estimations that can lead to significant inaccuracies. For example the total time for the reduced paging cycle could have a preset limit so that the algorithm could not establish the reduced paging cycle for greater than that time window which could prevent excessive battery drain even if the algorithm s estimation was inaccurate.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the aforementioned algorithms can be used in combination. For example the time of day algorithm can be used initially as a bootstrap mechanism. If the system performance is acceptable using the time of day algorithm then the access terminal can just continue to use this algorithm. However if the performance is not acceptable then the access terminal can switch to the adaptive algorithm. An advantage of using the time of day algorithm as a bootstrap mechanism before using the adaptive algorithm is that it enables power saving benefits right from the start with out the delay to acquire AT specific statistics. Further the time of day algorithm may be based on a large number of samples since the Server can monitor statistics of all daytime users rather than a single user alone. In addition it is possible to use inputs from the Server for a large number of users as well as the AT s own call arrival pattern in determining the optimal paging cycle.

Another embodiment may take into consideration whether the AT is in battery mode using its own power or plugged into and using an external power source. In the case where the AT is plugged into an external electrical source performance could be stepped up regardless of the time of day or any other type of algorithm in use. Another embodiment might take into consideration that applications such as group calls tend to cluster activity during PTT activity. Therefore the AT may ignore the algorithm it is using at that moment when a PTT activity starts and improve its performance responsiveness. For example it may be the middle of the night when the AT s algorithm indicates a prolonged period of inactivity. However after a PTT call is received in the middle of the night the AT might stay awake with a new algorithm based on the received call even though it is the middle of the night. If no further calls are received within a limited time the AT may revert back to the middle of the night algorithm based on timers or other environmental logic.

Additionally a check may be made to determine if the application client is registered activated with a system server and would benefit from performing the paging cycle optimizations disclosed herein. For example push to talk PTT software may be preloaded on the access terminal and operating in memory but not activated enabled e.g. a subscriber has not paid to access the service . Alternatively a PTT client although activated may not be registered with the system server e.g. the transmitter disabled in the access terminal . Either the unregistered or not enabled activated application condition can be considered to place the access terminal in a deregistered state. The deregistered state may be used to inhibit any adjustments to the sleep paging cycle by the application. Accordingly the access terminal may use its default sleep paging cycle as a reduced paging cycle may only increase battery drain while not providing a benefit to the deregistered application.

In yet another embodiment the AT may determine that it has traveled to a different time zone and accordingly adjust its algorithm to match the current time zone. Should the user of the AT decide that the algorithm should not be adjusted based on these types of time zone changes then an override would be provided to the user through an interface. Another embodiment may make use of other applications on the AT to enable different variations of the algorithm in conjunction with the application. For instance a calendar application may have set alerts for conference calls that are scheduled. Shortly before the calls are to be started the alert may be used in conjunction with an algorithm to place the AT in a better system performance mode.

In view of the foregoing disclosure those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention include methods of performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. Referring to a flowchart illustrating at least one method according to embodiments of the invention is provided. For example the process may start by determining the time of day and then based on the time of day set a desired paging cycle e.g. using the procedures discussed in relation to . Also as discussed above the determination as to the relevant time of day settings may be established by a remote server or any of the other methods discussed herein. The process may monitor the performance of a particular application e.g. the number of calls that achieve certain setup time metrics . If the application performance is acceptable the existing algorithm can be maintained. However if the application is not performing acceptably then another algorithm can be initiated. For example the access terminal can use collected local call statistical data to adjust the paging cycle . This data may be collected and processed locally at the access terminal or it can be provided to the access terminal from the RAN or other remote server. For example the probability density function of call arrival times can be determined and used as a basis to establish when to request a reduced paging cycle based on the call arrival data collected. If the application performance is acceptable this algorithm can be maintained. However if the application is not performing acceptably then yet another algorithm can be initiated. For example the AT can use a combination algorithm that sets the paging cycle based on the statistics from the server and AT specific collected statistics to achieve acceptable performance.

However those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention are not limited to these examples. For example embodiments of the invention include determining an optimal paging cycle and setting the paging cycle based on the optimal paging cycle wherein the paging cycle varies over time based on at least one optimizing metric. Additional constraints can also be included e.g. the remaining battery charge that can further modify and or override the algorithms and further enhance the optimization as discussed in the foregoing.

As noted above embodiments of the invention can reduce the delays in delay sensitive applications. A group communication system is an example of a delay sensitive system that can take advantage of reduced connection times offered by the hybrid communication setup disclosed herein. The group communication system may also be known as a push to talk PTT system a QChat system a net broadcast service NBS a dispatch system or a point to multi point communication system. Typically a group of access terminal users can communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. The term group member denotes a group of access terminal users authorized to communicate with each other. Although group communication systems PTT systems may be considered to be among several members the system is not limited to this configuration and can apply to communication between individual devices on a one to one basis.

The group may operate over an existing communications system without requiring substantial changes to the existing infrastructure. Thus a controller and users may operate in any system capable of transmitting and receiving packet information using Internet protocol IP such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system satellite communication systems combinations of land line and wireless systems and the like.

Group members may communicate with each other using an assigned access terminal such as ATs and . The ATs may be wireline or wireless devices such as terrestrial wireless telephones wireline telephones having push to talk capability satellite telephones equipped with push to talk functionality laptop or desktop computers paging devices or any combination thereof. Furthermore each AT may be able to send and receive information in either a secure mode or a non secure clear mode. It should be understood that reference to an access terminal AT is not intended to be limited to the illustrated or enumerated examples and may encompass other devices that have the capability to transmit and receive packet information in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

When a group member wishes to transmit information to other members of the group the member may request the transmission privilege by pressing a push to talk button or key e.g. in on an AT which generates a request formatted for transmission over a distributed network. For example AT the request may be transmitted over the air to one or more MPTs or base stations . A MPC MSC which may include a well known inter working function IWF packet data serving node PDSN or packet control function PCF for processing data packets may exist between MPT BS and the distributed network. However the requests may also be transmitted through the public switched telephone network PSTN to a carrier network . The carrier network may receive the request and provide it to RAN .

Referring to one or more group communication e.g. QChat servers can monitor traffic of the group communication system through its connection to a distributed network. Since group communication server can be connected to the distributed network through a variety of wired and wireless interfaces geographic proximity to group participants is not necessary. Typically a group communication server controls communications between the wireless devices of set group members ATs in a PTT system. The wireless network illustrated is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. A series of group communication servers can be connected to a group communication server LAN and work cooperatively to provide group communication services.

The group communication server s can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF may be located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a MSC . The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and PSTN for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless ATs such as cellular telephones as is well known in the art. Accordingly the details of the group communication system will not be further discussed.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying methods discussed herein. For example an embodiment can include a computer readable media embodying a method for optimizing paging cycles. The method can include determining an optimal paging cycle and setting a paging cycle of an access terminal based on the optimal paging cycle wherein the optimal paging cycle varies over time based on at least one optimizing metric. Accordingly the invention is not limited to the examples provided herein and any means for performing the functions processes sequence of actions and or algorithms described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

