---

title: Memory allocation in a mobile device
abstract: Systems and methods, including computer software stored on a machine-readable medium for performing operations, can be implemented for allocating memory. Multiple channels are defined on a mobile device. Each channel can be adapted to receive a predetermined type of content for access on the mobile device. An amount of memory allocated to each channel for storing data is defined. Data identifying a new amount of memory allocated to one of the channels is received, and the amount of memory allocated to the channel is adjusted based on the data identifying the new amount of memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08214619&OS=08214619&RS=08214619
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08214619
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071126
---
The present disclosure relates to memory allocation in computer systems in general and more specifically relates to memory allocation in mobile information systems. In a mobile information system subscribers may register with a wireless service provider to receive various types of content from the service provider on their mobile devices. The subscriber s mobile device may include a resident interactive multimedia application environment that includes capabilities for displaying graphics video animation audio and the like. Examples of such interactive multimedia application environments are the different versions of the Adobe Flash based platform. Many different types of content are provided to mobile devices equipped with such application environments and the amount of memory required depends on the particular type of content provided.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a method that includes defining multiple channels on a mobile device. Each channel is adapted to receive a predetermined type of content for access on the mobile device. An amount of memory allocated to each channel for storing data is defined. Data identifying a new amount of memory allocated to one of the channels is received and the amount of memory allocated to the channel is adjusted based on the data identifying the new amount of memory. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

In another general aspect a system includes one or more databases operable to store content for multiple available channels and the content includes one or more files for delivery to mobile or remote devices based on a registration of each remote device to receive updates for one or more channels. One or more servers are adapted to automatically deliver content updates to remote devices based on the registration of each remote device to receive updates for one or more channels. The servers are also adapted to send instructions to the remote devices to adjust an amount of memory allocated to one or more channels based on the registration of each remote device. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding methods apparatus and computer program products.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. Each channel can include an associated cache of content received from a remote server where the content can be selectively accessed by a user of the mobile device. The content for each channel can be periodically updated from the remote server. Data identifying a new amount of memory allocated to another of the plurality of channels can be received and an unavailability of the new amount of memory on the mobile device can be identified. Updates to the channel can be suspended at least until the new amount of memory becomes available. The data identifying the new amount of memory may be received from the remote server. The defined amount of memory allocated to each channel can be defined by data received from the remote server. The amount of memory allocated to the channel can be adjusted by determining that a current amount of stored data for the channel exceeds the new amount of memory and delaying the adjustment to the amount of memory allocated to the channel at least until the amount of stored data for the channel does not exceed the new amount of memory. The new amount of memory can be determined at least in part based on one or more characteristics of the device. Content updates can be received for multiple information channels on a mobile device. The content updates can be stored in a data storage on the mobile device. Content corresponding to one or more content updates for one or more information channels can be presented in response to a user selection on the mobile device. The content can be presented by executing one or more files stored in the data storage using a media player on the mobile device. The data identifying the new amount of memory can be received by the mobile device from a remote server. The content updates can be received from the remote server. The content updates can be requested according to one or more predetermined update schedules. The content updates can be received based on a registration of the mobile device to receive content updates for the multiple information channels and a frequency of content updates can be determined by the remote server. Each available channel can have an associated amount of memory and an interface can be used for receiving instructions to update the amount of memory associated with each available channel. Content can be received from one or more remote content providers and content stored in one or more databases for delivery to mobile devices can be updated based on the content received from the one or more remote content providers. The content updates can be automatically delivered to each mobile device based on at least one of a predetermined interval an expiration of content previously delivered to the mobile device or a message from the mobile device that content previously delivered to the mobile device can be replaced. The one or more servers can be further adapted to determine for each mobile device whether the amount of memory allocated to one or more channels needs to be updated on the mobile device.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Memory allocated to store different types of content on a mobile device may be changed automatically from a remote server. Controlling memory allocations remotely may enhance the user experience and allow a centralized and or automated process to ensure sufficient memory resources are available on the mobile device to handle content that is automatically sent to the device i.e. pushed or pulled based on a registration to receive particular types of content e.g. information channels . Feedback from the device regarding availability of memory may help avoid errors caused by insufficient memory resources and or allow a central server to identify potential issues with respect to memory allocations. Memory allocations may be made based on changes in the volume or resource demands of content over time. Memory allocations may be adjusted over time to provide more efficient uses of limited storage space on mobile devices.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

When a computer system such as a mobile information system is configured to provide content to a user device such as a mobile device the computer system may implement memory allocation procedures to determine the storage of content in the memory of the user device. In a mobile information system subscribers may register with a wireless service provider to receive various types of content from the service provider on their mobile devices. Third party content providers may also register or contract with the wireless service provider to provide various types of content to subscribers over a network such as the Internet via the service provider. The subscriber s mobile device may include a resident interactive multimedia application environment that includes capabilities for displaying graphics video animation audio and the like. Examples of such interactive multimedia application environments are the different versions of the Adobe Flash based platform. Content provided to mobile devices equipped with such application environments are sometimes delivered in executable file formats such as the precisely described SWF small web format binary vector graphics format. SWF provides a compact TAG based easily extendible format that supports streaming bitmap and vector graphics and scripting. Content may include other data or files such as a feature film an executable software update or a software extension.

In some implementations wireless service providers deliver content to the mobile devices of their subscribers in the form of information channels. Each information channel may originate with the wireless service provider or may originate with third party content providers. When a subscriber subscribes to a particular information channel the wireless service provider delivers content associated with that information channel to the subscriber s mobile device. The content may be delivered as a channel feed to a file system i.e. a feed store located on the mobile device. The feed store may be logically divided into separate compartments or memory allocations with each channel assigned its own compartment on a static or dynamic basis. Periodically the wireless service provider may deliver channel content updates to the mobile device. The updates may be provided according to a predetermined schedule in response to a request from the mobile device in response to an availability of updates at the content provider in response to an expiration or consumption e.g. viewing of content previously delivered to the mobile device or in some other way. Because the channel content is stored locally on the mobile device and frequently updated the subscriber is usually able to access the channel without having to wait for channel content or content updates to be delivered over the network. The channel content may be automatically delivered to the mobile device in the background i.e. without a specific user request and or while the mobile device is otherwise idle or being used to view other channels or perform other operations .

For example a wireless service provider may offer several different information channels to its subscribers. Some information channels may be freely available to all subscribers while other information channels may require premium subscriber status. The content of some information channels may originate with the wireless service provider. The content of other information channels may originate with third parties that have registered with the service provider. The content of still other information channels may originate with other sources. The offered information channels may include a premium news channel. If a subscriber has subscribed to the premium news channel then the wireless service provider may establish a channel feed to periodically or sporadically deliver content from the premium news channel to the feed store located on the subscriber s mobile device. When the subscriber accesses the premium news channel processes on the mobile device retrieve the content from the feed store. Even if the subscriber rarely or even never accesses the premium news channel the channel feed may provide for regular updates of channel content in the feed store based for example on an expiration of content and or an availability of new content.

Channel content may be in the form of text images vector graphics bitmaps frame based animation video or in any other format supported by the mobile information system and may include executable scripts or other sequences of instructions. Depending on the format of the channel content an application running on the mobile device such as a media player or other type of media player component may be invoked to run the script execute the instructions or otherwise display the content. One example of such a mobile information system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 791 298 filed Mar. 1 2004 and entitled MOBILE RICH MEDIA INFORMATION SYSTEMS the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Different channels may require different amounts of memory in the mobile device due to the different formats and types of channel content. For example a weather channel may require multiple megabytes e.g. 10 MB of memory in order to store satellite images and weather related graphics and a stock ticker channel may only require several kilobytes e.g. 256 kB of memory in order to store text data related to stock prices. In order to allow seamless integration of content updates into the memory of the mobile device a channel may have a pre determined amount of memory allocated in the mobile device. The amount of memory required by a channel may be determined or recommended by the content provider of that channel and a system administrator may accept or change the content providers recommendation. The amount of memory required by a given channel may change for example if the content provider wants to include more or less content in the given channel. In this case the service provider or the system administrator may send data to the mobile device instructing the mobile device to allocate a new amount of memory to the given channel.

The mobile device is also configured to store channel content in feed store . Feed store may include multiple channel feeds where a feed may be static or dynamic. Illustrated feed store includes static feed and multiple dynamic feeds feed A feed B feed C and feed D . The feed store memory allocation may be determined at least partially and in some implementations fully by the server system or by content providers . For example a content provider may provide two news channels. One of the news channels News Lite may provide news content primarily in a text format and may thus require a relatively small amount of memory e.g. 256 kB . The other news channel News Big may provide news content using both text and images and may thus require a larger amount of memory e.g. 10 MB . The content provider may then recommend that kB be allocated to News Lite and 10 MB be allocated to News Big. The administrator may accept the recommendation of content provider . Subsequently when a mobile device subscribes to one of the two news channels the server system may instruct the mobile device to allocate the appropriate amount of memory. By allocating memory as instructed the mobile device may help ensure that it has sufficient memory available for future channel feed updates given that the content providers and or service provider should enforce rules preventing content from exceeding the established memory requirements. One advantage of this approach is that a user can decide whether to allocate for example 256 kB or 10 MB of memory to news depending for example on available memory desired feature quality and or tradeoffs with other channels. Another advantage of this approach is that content may be automatically updated without having to reallocate memory in the mobile device . For example mobile device may store content updates for feed A without deleting content from feed B C or D since the memory for feed A content is already allocated.

In some situations the amount of memory in a mobile device allocated to a channel feed may need to be increased or decreased. For example a channel feed dedicated to baseball news may only require a small amount of memory during winter months since there may be less baseball news to report during the winter and the same channel feed dedicated to baseball news may require a larger amount of memory during the spring summer and fall months of baseball season. As a specific example content provider may provide a channel College Baseball. During the winter a relatively small amount of memory e.g. 256 kB may be allocated to College Baseball and when baseball season begins in the spring content provider may recommend that a larger amount of memory e.g. 3 MB be allocated to College Baseball since there is more content to provide. The administrator may accept the change recommendation of content provider . The amount of memory allocated in feed store of mobile devices that subscribe to the channel College Baseball may then be adjusted accordingly.

The adjustment of memory allocation may be implemented using a variety of techniques. In some implementations the amount of memory required for a channel feed may be identified in each update of the channel feed for example in metadata included with the channel feed update. In this type of implementation the mobile device may recognize that the amount of data required for a given channel has changed based on the metadata and the mobile device may then allocate the appropriate amount of memory. In other implementations the administrator or the server system may determine that the memory requirements for a certain channel have changed since the last update of the certain channel on a particular mobile device . In this type of implementation the server system may send over wireless network instructions to adjust the amount of memory allocated to the certain channel in the particular mobile device . The system may use either of these techniques a combination of the two techniques or other techniques for adjusting memory allocation in the mobile device . One advantage of the techniques discussed here is that allocation of memory may be from the user s perspective automatically adjusted to accommodate changes in content.

Of course the memory requirements for an adjustment of memory allocation may not always be available. For example an adjustment of memory allocation may require that a certain channel be allocated a new amount of memory that is less than the current amount of stored data for the certain channel. As a specific example feed A may include 1 MB of data and an adjustment of memory allocation may require 512 kB of memory for feed A. In this situation the adjustment of memory allocation may be delayed at least until the amount of data stored in feed A is not greater than 512 kB or the adjustment of memory allocation may require content to be deleted from the channel feed being adjusted. Alternatively an adjustment of memory allocation may require that a channel be allocated an amount of memory that is currently unavailable in memory . As a specific example memory may include 3 MB of unallocated memory and an adjustment of memory allocation may require that a given channel be allocated an additional 4 MB of memory. In this situation updates to the channel content may be suspended until 4 MB of memory are available or the adjustment of memory allocation may require at least 1 MB of memory be deallocated in memory for example from a different channel. There are other cases where an adjustment of memory allocation may not be available. The system may provide error handling mechanisms and processes for responding to such situations. In some implementations when memory requirements for an adjustment of memory allocation are not available the mobile device may send an error message to the server content updates for one or more channels may be suspended and or adjustments to memory allocation may be delayed until the memory requirements are available.

At a high level server system may receive information from content providers organize the retrieved information along with some or all of any associated memory allocations into individual information channel feeds and deliver the information channel feeds to client . Client may then store the information channel feeds in feed store . In addition to the dynamic channel feeds received from server system feed store may also contain one or more static feeds . Static feed content and associated permissions may be preloaded on mobile device instead of delivered by server system . In addition to providing information channel feeds may also be used to provide services such as a home page user interface calendar user interface and services or other user interfaces or specialized application services. From a security standpoint there may be little or no difference between static feeds and dynamic feeds or between information channels and service channels.

When a subscriber attempts to access a particular information channel for example channel B client may retrieve channel B content and channel B metadata from feed store . Depending on the format of channel B content client may provide channel B content to media player component . In some implementations channel B content is a SWF file and media player component is an Adobe Flash based media player component that provides media player functionality. Client and media player component may form two parts of a single virtual machine running on mobile device . The virtual machine may run on a device platform . Client and media player component may then be programmed to run on the virtual machine.

In some implementations the functionality of media player component may be extended. Such an extension may be used to expand the functionality of media player component such as by providing support for additional commands or services. For example a service provider may wish to provide channel content that displays or otherwise accesses or manipulates data from local data such as a call log. The service provider may develop a custom command or instruction that can be provided in the channel feed and stored in feed store . Such a command may be unrecognized by unextended media player component and client . The service provider may then install a custom extension on mobile device that recognizes and performs the custom command or instruction effectively increasing the number of commands or instructions recognized by media player component . The extension may be implemented through an application programming interface API supported by the client which defines certain types of messages that can be passed between the client and the extension. In another example a third party content provider may develop a custom command or instruction to perform some other activity. An extension may be a software module that is distributed preinstalled on mobile device or downloaded to mobile device for example over wireless network .

Client provides a framework for displaying and managing content received on mobile device including content received from server system . Client may be responsible for the caching of received content for communication with server system and for various other tasks. Client may manage subscriber input and memory devices and . In addition client may manage security features that protect the privacy of subscribers and content and prevent unauthorized parties from interfering with the service. In some implementations client is distributed preinstalled on mobile device while in other implementations client or an update to client is downloaded to mobile device for example over wireless network .

Client may access media player component to render a user interface and content and to perform scripting operations. In some implementations media player component is a media player that supports vector graphics bitmaps and frame based animation as well as text input and dynamic text. Media player component may be able to process files such as SWF files in which content providers use native device fonts or embed arbitrary fonts. Media player component may also support scripting integration with mobile device capabilities including keypad navigation button presses notification messaging and media playback as well as integration with general mobile device operating system functionality. This enables client to be integrated with other mobile device applications and functionalities. Scripting may be accomplished with ActionScript or any other suitable scripting language supported by media player component .

Client may be configured to interact with mobile device s underlying features and applications through a set of scriptable commands. In some implementations client may interact with native functions of the mobile device by interfacing with a platform of the mobile device . Such commands may enable channel content to retrieve and set subscriber preferences provide time and date information from the host environment or launch external applications such as a browser or media player. In some implementations upon launching an external application the subscriber is instantly transferred to that application. Client may maintain the state of the user interface so that the subscriber can return to the same screen of client from which the external application was launched creating a perception of an integrated experience.

Mobile device may have a fully customizable user interface design through feed store that consists of individual Flash elements i.e. SWF files independent of client s core functionality. In some implementations the SWF files enable subscribers to use mobile device s soft keys to control navigation and client s meta functions such as setting preferences. Feed store may be updated over wireless network and may use an asynchronous communication protocol that updates all content through a background delivery mechanism that is transparent to subscribers. This enables subscribers to continue browsing one information channel for example channel B while a different information channel is updated in the background. Subscribers can also change their preferences when offline the transaction based client server protocol may ensure that such requests will be fulfilled the next time client connects to server system . Communications between client and server system may be facilitated through libraries native to platform . Platform represents the device dependent operating system running on mobile device . Example implementations of platform are BREW OS Symbian OS BlackBerry OS Windows Mobile OS Palm OS Linux Windows XP Mac OS and the like.

When running in background mode client may minimize battery usage while periodically receiving updates from server system . In some implementations subscribers can choose between a number of battery conserving update options for example always update update only when battery strength is above a certain level and never update. If supported by platform different applications may be running simultaneously. In such cases client may minimize its use of memory resources when other applications are active. For example client may have a hibernate mode in which it consumes only a fraction of its normal operating memory. Client may also be configured to limit the number of information channels to which a subscriber may subscribe. When this limit is reached client may require a subscriber to remove an information channel before a new information channel may be added. Client may also support Short Message Service SMS signaling allowing server system to awaken client and initiate an immediate content update in the case of important events such as breaking news or an immediate retraction of inappropriate content.

Server system may include clusters of feed servers and data source servers as well as report server . Report server may allow service providers to monitor server activities and network traffic and may be integrated with other enterprise reporting solutions. The client server architecture of system may use clustering technology to help ensure performance reliability and scalability while minimizing deployment complexities through a flexible integration framework. Server system may aggregate content from external content providers received over the Internet and organize the content into channel content feeds. Server system may filter content feeds based on user preferences mobile device types and access controls. Server system may deliver the content feeds to client over wireless network . Data source servers may retrieve normalize and aggregate content from the web servers of content providers may transform various formats of retrieved content for example into a common XML format and may pass the content on to feed servers for delivery to client . Retrievals may be scheduled at predetermined intervals at which times only differential updates may be collected. Data source servers may be configured to handle content feeds in various formats e.g. RSS Atom XML etc. . Content feeds may support embedded content types including for example text images and SWF files.

Using system service providers may be able to provide targeted data service offerings to subscribers. Service providers may be able to promote specific content bundles to certain segments such as business people teens casual users and others. Service providers may be able to make specific content bundles available to all subscribers in for example a channel guide allowing subscribers to select specific content bundles. To increase network efficiency server system may operate in an occasionally connected data model and may use a communication protocol that enables differential updates minimizing unnecessary exchanges of data between server system and client . For example in the case of a weather channel only an update to the temperature may be required while all other content such as images video or forecasts remains the same.

Server system may be equipped with an administrator providing the functionality required to manage the servers including channel administration subscriber administration and system management. Using administrator service providers can check for example the amount of network traffic each channel generates deactivate poorly performing channels and dynamically provision modify or remove channels among other tasks. As part of channel administration service providers may recommend to administrator the amount of memory to allocate to a channel. Administrator may accept or modify the content provider s recommended memory allocation. Administrator may be implemented as automated processes and may also provide an interface for non automated i.e. human initiated or controlled processes. To the extent administrator is implemented as one or more partially or fully automated processes administrator may be incorporated into the server . In some implementations administrator may determine for each mobile device whether the amount of memory allocated to one or more channels needs to be updated on the mobile device. For example the administrator may identify that the memory allocated to a certain channel has changed since a particular mobile device s last update. In this case the administrator may send to the particular mobile device data identifying the new amount of memory allocated to the certain channel.

When client receives a content update from server system via the channel feed client stores both the channel content and the metadata associated with the content in feed store . For example when client receives a content update for Channel B client updates Channel B feed in feed store . Both Channel B content and the associated Channel B metadata are stored. Channel B feed may be updated multiple times before a subscriber ever accesses it. When a subscriber accesses Channel B through the mobile device user interface client may retrieve Channel B content e.g. a SWF file and Channel B metadata and provide both to media player component e.g. a media player .

When mobile device receives an indication that the memory requirement for one or more channels has changed since the last update the allocation of memory in feed store may be adjusted. For example if the channel Stock Quotes requires 1 MB of memory mobile device may identify that the memory allocated to feed D needs to be adjusted. In such a case some of the unallocated memory of feed store may be allocated to feed D. Alternatively if the channel Stock Quotes requires only 128 kB of memory the mobile device may deallocate half i.e. 128 kB of feed D. In this case the amount of unallocated memory may increase by 128 kB. is not meant to convey the breadth of content and services that may be provided using feed store . Indeed a wide variety of content and services that are not illustrated may be provided. Rather illustrates an example allocation of memory for channel feeds in the mobile device in accordance with some implementations of the present disclosure.

At a plurality of channels are defined. Available channels may be offered by a wireless service provider or by a third party service provider and a user of the mobile device may subscribe or register to receive updates to particular channels. Each channel may be adapted to receive a predetermined type of content such that the content may be delivered to the mobile device for a user to selectively access or view the content. For example the mobile device may register for the channels News and Baseball Scores at . Next at content for the channels is received. For example content may be received by the mobile device over wireless network . The content may include media or multimedia data. Additionally the content may include data defining user interfaces menus channel features and the like. Channel content may be in a variety of formats such as text images vector graphics bitmaps frame based animation video or in any other format. Channel content may further include executable scripts or other sequences of instructions. The channel content may be read by a media player component and displayed or otherwise presented on the mobile device. As a specific example the channel Baseball Scores may receive text data identifying all of the Major League Baseball scores for a certain day. Furthermore in some implementations each channel may include an associated cache of content received from a remote server and the content may allow selective access by a user of the mobile device. In addition the content for each channel may be periodically updated by a remote server for example in accordance with a predetermined update schedule. The updates may be based on an expiration or a viewing of content or the updates may be initiated when new content becomes available. In some implementations the updates may be initiated automatically by the server while in other implementations the mobile device may automatically send a request for updates at an interval or time previously instructed by the server.

At an amount of memory allocated to each channel is defined. The amount of memory allocated to a channel may be allocated in a mobile device for storing content originated by the channel content provider. A content provider may recommend a certain amount of memory to allocate for a given channel and a system administrator may accept the recommendation. Alternatively the system administrator may otherwise define the amount of memory allocated to a channel. The amount of memory allocated to a given channel may depend on the type of content typically included in the channel. For example the channel News may be allocated 2 MB of memory and the channel Baseball Scores may be allocated 128 kB of memory. The channel News may require more memory than the channel Baseball Scores if images are typically included in the channel News but only text data are typically included in the channel Baseball Scores. The amount of memory allocated to a channel may be defined by data communicated from a server to a mobile device.

Next at data identifying a new amount of allocated memory is received. In some implementations the new amount of memory may be determined at least in part based on the channel content or on one or more characteristics of the device which may be known by the server based on profile data stored at the server. For example the new amount of allocated memory may be determined based on available memory or size of local storage capabilities of a device such as the ability to play audio or video the screen size or screen resolution of a device or others. The new amount of memory allocated may be determined by an administrator or by a content provider based on content changes or other considerations. The data identifying the a new amount of allocated memory may be included as metadata in a channel content update. For example a mobile device may receive periodic updates for one or more channels and each update may include the channel memory requirements in the update metadata. If the channel memory requirements included in the metadata are different than the current memory allocation for the channel the mobile device may identify the channel memory requirements included in the metadata as a new amount of allocated memory. As a specific example data may be received identifying that the channel News is now allocated 5 MB of memory rather than the previous 2 MB.

At memory requirements are checked. For example the mobile device may be checked for available memory to increase the memory allocated to one or more channels. If the new amount of memory is unavailable updates may be suspended at least until the new amount of memory becomes available. As another example the mobile device may be checked to determine if content would be deleted by decreasing the memory allocated to one or more channels. If the current amount of stored data exceeds the new amount of memory adjusting the amount of memory allocated to the channel may be delayed at least until the amount of stored data for the channel does not exceed the new amount of memory. In case of either unavailable memory or excess data for the new amount of memory an error message may be sent to the server so that the server can suspend updates log the error for research purposes identify potential problems with the new amounts of allocated memory or perform other functions. Continuing the specific example from the mobile device may be checked for 3 MB of additional memory to be allocated to the channel News. A description of an example method for checking memory requirements is discussed below in connection with .

At the amount of memory allocated to the channel is adjusted. Continuing with the specific example from step if the 3 MB of additional memory are available the channel News may be allocated 5 MB of memory on the mobile device. In some implementations the amount of memory allocated may be adjusted after a delay initiated during memory requirement checks or after sufficient memory has become available.

At data identifying a new amount of memory allocated to a channel is received. For example the data may be received over wireless network . Next at a determination is made as to whether the new amount of memory is greater than or equal to the amount of memory previously allocated to the channel. If so a determination is made as to whether the new amount of memory is available in the mobile device at . If so the amount of memory allocated to the channel is adjusted at . However if at it is determined that the new amount of memory is unavailable in the mobile device an appropriate error message is sent at . For example the error message may be sent to the system server over the wireless network and may identify that that new amount of memory is unavailable in the mobile device. Then at adjusting the amount of memory allocated to the channel is delayed and or updates to the channel are suspended. These actions may be implemented concurrently or alternatively as appropriate. For example the mobile device may suspend storing updates received from the server or the server may suspend sending updates to the mobile device. If at it is determined that the new amount of memory is less than the amount of memory previously allocated to the channel a determination is made at as to whether the new amount of memory is less than the amount of data already stored on the channel. The process proceeds to . Alternatively if the new amount of memory is greater than or equal to the amount of data already stored on the channel process proceeds to described above .

Process describes one example method of checking memory requirements for an adjustment of memory allocation. Other methods which may include some all and or additional operation may also be used. For example an answer of yes at and may in some implementations lead to different subsequent operation. In some implementations after it is determined at that the new amount of memory is less than the amount of data already stored on the channel some of the channel content may be deleted the user may be asked to delete some of the channel content and or adjusting the amount of memory allocated to the channel may be delayed until the amount of stored data is less than the new amount of memory. As another example if it is determined at question that the new amount of memory is unavailable in the mobile device the user may be notified and asked if there are channels that the user would like to unsubscribe in order to deallocate memory the user may be given an option to subscribe to a different channel with similar content and less memory requirement e.g. News Lite vs. News Big and or updates may be suspended until the new amount of memory is available in the mobile device.

At a plurality of channels are defined. At an amount of memory allocated to each channel is defined. Next at a mobile device which will receive a channel content update is identified. The mobile device may be identified based on a predetermined schedule in response to an automated request from the mobile device in response to an availability of updates at the content provider in response to an expiration or consumption e.g. viewing of content previously delivered to the mobile device or in some other way. At a determination is made whether the mobile device needs to update the amount of memory allocated to the channel. This may be done using a variety of techniques. For example an administrator may have a record of the channel memory requirement of the last update received by the mobile device and the administrator may identify that the memory requirement of the current channel content update is greater than or less than that of the previous update. Alternatively the server may not maintain information identifying a current memory allocation of the mobile device instead the amount of memory that should be allocated may be delivered to the mobile device which may determine whether this amount differs from the amount currently allocated on the device. At data identifying the new amount of memory is sent to the mobile device. The data may be sent for example over wireless network . In some implementations the data may be included as metadata in a channel content. Subsequently memory requirements may be checked and or the amount of memory allocated to the channel on the mobile device may be adjusted as appropriate.

The preceding flowcharts and accompanying descriptions illustrate example methods. It will be understood that these methods are for illustration purposes only and that the described or similar techniques may be performed at any appropriate time including concurrently individually or in combination. In addition many of the steps in these flowcharts may take place simultaneously and or in different orders than as shown. Moreover methods may be used with additional steps fewer steps and or different steps so long as the methods remain appropriate.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter or a combination of one or more of them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments of the invention have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. The described techniques may be implemented in non mobile environments e.g. using wire line communications such as a cable connection with a non mobile client such as a set top box .

