---

title: Adjustable height bridging ramp system
abstract: As typically embodied, the inventive ramp system for bridging between structures (e.g., marine vessels) includes a hydraulic elevator device and a ramp unit. The ramp unit includes three adjoining planar members, the ramp member (the main ramp body) being pivotably connected at each end to one of the two platform members. The hydraulic elevator device includes the coaxial combination of a cylinder and a piston, the piston being translatable along and pivotable about the axis. The cylinder-piston combination is secured, axis vertical, to a first structure, with one of the ramp unit's platform members attached atop the piston. In order to position the other (unattached) platform member upon a selected (e.g., horizontal) location of a second structure, the ramp unit is configurable in terms of the attached platform member's height, the ramp unit's horizontal rotation angle, and the respective vertical rotation angles of the ramp unit's two pivotable connections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07793374&OS=07793374&RS=07793374
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07793374
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070420
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 797 085 filing date 21 Apr. 2006 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Cargo Transfer Method and Apparatus joint inventors Robert W. Anderson Stuart G. Ullman Kellie L Redcay Ryan T. Hayleck John F. O Dea Sean M. Gallagher Christopher J. Doyle and Donald R. Jacobsen.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 527 666 filing date 18 Sep. 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 556 471 B1 issuance date 7 Jul. 2009 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Inter Ship Personnel Transfer Device and Method of Moving between Compacted State and Non Compacted State joint inventors Sean M. Gallagher Stuart G. Ullman Ryan T. Hayleck Christopher J. Doyle John F. O Dea Robert W. Anderson and Kellie L. Redcay.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 789 116 filing date 20 Apr. 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 516 712 B1 issuance date 14 Apr. 2009 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Vertical Damper for Mooring Vessels joint inventors John F. O Dea Robert W. Anderson Sean M. Gallagher Ryan T. Hayleck Kellie L. Redcay and Stuart G. Ullman.

This application is related to the U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 789 125 filing date 20 Apr. 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 621 230 B1 issuance date 24 Nov. 2009 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Carrier and Flow Through Ship joint inventors Robert W. Anderson Stuart Ullman Kellie Redcay Ryan Hayleck John O Dea Sean Gallagher Chris Doyle and Donald R. Jacobsen.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to cargo transfer more particularly to cargo transfer involving marine vessels at sea.

A Landing Craft Air Cushion LCAC is a high speed air cushion hovercraft. The LCAC is typically used by the U.S. Navy as an amphibious landing craft for carrying weapons equipment cargo and personnel from a ship e.g. an amphibious assault ship to the shore and for returning to the ship for another load. Current U.S. Navy Sea Base plans call for a capability to launch and support the operations of a Marine Expeditionary Brigade MEB from the ships of the Sea Base. The LCAC is the primary surface assault connector. The LCAC has the ability to climb and descend slopes however the U.S. Navy s need to fully exploit these climbing descending capabilities did not arise until presently as the LCAC is the prime surface assault connector of the Sea Base.

Unfortunately there is no existing asset to bring the necessary number of required LCACs into theater. Another problem is how to load these LCACs to support the MEB in an efficient and timely manner. Current methods of loading LCACs from larger cargo ships at sea involve loading LCACs while they are in the water or driving them onto lightweight temporary platforms that are relatively small in size and hence subject to substantial motion as sea states rise. It simply takes too much time to load each LCAC using current methods. Alternative approaches have been suggested that would use a ship as both an LCAC carrier and a transfer enabler for the Sea Base. Some of these concepts require the ship to ballast down as in a heavy lift ship so that the LCACs can fly on and off the mother ship. Other concepts use large elevators to transfer the LCAC between the carrier and the water. These concepts are complex and create a critical failure path.

It is also desirable for two or more ships to have the capability to moor together while at sea. However the forces creating the relative vertical motions between two or more ships are too powerful to be overcome by traditional mooring and tendering systems. To fight these forces would mean fighting the entire restorative buoyancy force. Aside from welding the ships together certainly a preposterous solution this is virtually unachievable. Analysis shows that in Sea State 4 the upper requirement for Sea Base operations the relative vertical movement between two ships moored together will be too great to allow the safe transfer of personnel and cargo.

Of particular interest herein is the capability to transfer cargo and personnel between two different marine vessels at sea. For the onloading and offloading of cargo traditional Roll On Roll Off RO RO ramps operate through the bow or stern of a ship and in association with a pier. According to this conventional practice of cargo transfer between a ship and a pier the height of the pier is known either as a specific value or as falling within a specific range of values. In contrast for ships at sea it would be extremely difficult to moor two or more ships bow to stern so that an RO RO procedure could occur. Nevertheless in certain U.S. Naval evolutions such as involving cargo personnel transfer a Sea Base a large number of vehicles must be transferred from one ship to another. While a crane could be used to move these vehicles an RO RO operation would be much more efficient insofar as the vehicles would in effect be moving themselves between the ships. The RO RO concept in general principle is advantageous in that it avails itself of the inherent ability of transportation vehicles to move from one place to another.

Since it is impracticable that ships at sea moor bow to stern the possibility suggests itself that some sort of RO RO methodology be performed transversely between two ships at sea that are moored skin to skin. However this introduces another problem in that the freeboard between ships can vary quite a bit and ships with side ports offer an even lower access point. It has been believed to be impossible to develop a multi purpose ramp system i.e. a ramp system that is not ship specific that could accommodate the wide range of potential vertical heights of the various ships that may require transfer on and or off of vehicles and or personnel.

In view of the foregoing it is a principal object of the present invention to provide methodologies that afford improved capabilities for transferring cargo and personnel between marine vessels at sea.

In the instant disclosure it is especially an object of the present invention to provide a practical and efficient methodology for effecting RO RO transfer of cargo between marine vessels at sea.

Disclosed herein and in the two aforementioned nonprovisional patent applications being concurrently filed herewith are various inventive methodologies that lend themselves to being practiced either individually or in various combinations toward the overall inventive goal of enhancing and expanding capabilities for transferring cargo between vessels at sea.

A first implementation of the present invention is emphasized by the aforementioned nonprovisional patent application entitled LCAC Carrier and Flow Through Ship. According to typical embodiments of this inventive implementation a ship includes a forward ramp and an aft ramp. The inventive configuration allows LCACs to drive themselves on and off the ship. The inventive ship thus effectuates a variation on the theme of the RO RO concept that is traditionally for wheeled traffic however as typically practiced the inventive ship s traffic are hovercraft e.g. LCACs . The inventive ship can carry the LCACs into the theater where they are needed load them for a mission launch them out via the forward ramp and bow door then retrieve them through the stern ramp and stern door . The inventive ship does not require a well deck ballast down capability or elevators to accommodate the LCACs. The inventive ship is designed to take advantage of the capability of an LCAC to climb and descend slight slopes. When LCAC operations are not underway the inventive ship s bow and stern doors close to prevent seawater from flowing up the corresponding ramps and onto the inventive ship s LCAC deck.

A second implementation of the present invention is emphasized by the aforementioned nonprovisional patent application entitled Vertical Damper for Ship to Ship Mooring. According to typical embodiments of this inventive implementation a shock absorber device is useful for mooring ships together at sea. More specifically the inventive shock absorber device is intended as a vertical damper to be used between ships that are moored together in an open seaway. By acting as a vertical damper between two ships the inventive shock absorber device makes it possible to greatly reduce the relative vertical motions between the two moored ships thereby permitting the safe transfer of cargo personnel and vehicles to proceed.

A third implementation of the present invention is emphasized by the instant nonprovisional patent application. According to typical embodiments of the inventive implementation instantly disclosed a ramp system enables transfer of cargo and or personnel between ships permitting RO RO e.g. vehicular traffic and or personnel traffic. The inventive ramp system as typically embodied comprises a ramp apparatus and a hydraulic elevator device. Featured by the inventive ramp system is its adjustable height capability afforded by the hydraulic elevator device including a hollow cylinder and a piston which raises or lowers the entire ramp apparatus. The ramp apparatus can be raised or lowered in its entirety in order to interface with a wide variety of ships characterized by any in a wide range of Weather Deck freeboard values. This flexibility of use is much greater than traditionally thought possible for a ramp system.

The present invention s adjustable height bridging ramp system can be propitiously employed to transfer vehicles and or cargo and or personnel between ships at sea. The host ship i.e. the ship on which the inventive ramp system is based can perform at sea RO RO transfer to and or fro with multifarious ships of wide ranging descriptions and dimensions. The length width and height of the present invention s adjustable height bridging ramp system can be varied as design considerations in accordance with particular applications for instance to accommodate the guest ship i.e. the ship with which the host ship is interfacing and or the traffic e.g. human or vehicular or cargo that is contemplated. While the inventive ramping system is especially useful for at sea RO RO transfer it can also be used with great benefit as a pier interface.

An important inventive design consideration is the nature of the vehicular and or pedestrian traffic that is contemplated for crossing the inventive system s ramp apparatus. A useful motto here is to know your traffic. For instance if vehicles e.g. wheeled motorized land vehicles such as HUMVEEs are to cross e.g. drive across the ramp apparatus the inventive practitioner should consider the type s of vehicle s as well as the number of vehicles and if more than one type the relative numbers of each type of vehicle . Of particular note are the weights of the vehicles because in general the structural weight of the ramp apparatus will be designed to be increased to accommodate the expected heavier loads. Inventive applications involving increasingly heavy vehicular weight and concomitant increasingly heavy ramp apparatus weight become increasingly difficult to practice in a moving sea way as torsion is increasingly factored into the equation. That the inventive ramp system s ramp apparatus in typical operation is oriented transversely with respect to the two ships may serve to reduce or eliminate excessive torsion on the ramp apparatus due to lack or near lack of longitudinal vector in its orientation.

Many embodiments of the inventive ramp system are preferably practiced in combination with the inventive shock absorber device which reduces or minimizes the amount of relative vertical movement between the host ship and the guest ship. The inventive shock absorber significantly decreases the relative motion due to rolling between the two side by side ships thus bringing about significantly more favorable circumstances for the inventive ramp system s effectuation of RO RO in a transverse mode. As a general rule practice of the inventive ramp system between ships at sea under sea state conditions greater than two would probably be excessively hazardous in the absence of practice combined therewith of the inventive vertical damper device when combined with the inventive vertical damper device the inventive ramp system can safely be implemented up to sea states of four.

The inventive ramp system s ramp apparatus as typically embodied includes a host end platform a guest end platform a ramp intermediate the host end platform and the guest end platform a host end hinge mechanism joining the host end platform and the ramp and a guest end hinge mechanism joining the guest end platform and the ramp . The present invention s hydraulic elevator device typically situated on the host ship for the inventive ramp system includes a large diameter hollow cylinder and snugly but slidably fitting therein a slightly smaller diameter piston cylinder. As the present invention is typically practiced the piston cylinder is both longitudinally axially movable and rotatably movable relative to the hollow cylinder. The piston cylinder has a sufficiently large diameter to accommodate the host end platform which must be supported by the piston cylinder without any question as to structural integrity according to typical inventive practice the diameter of the piston cylinder equals or nearly equals the width of the host end platform.

The determination of whether an inventive bridging ramp system that is installed on a host ship operates from a lower position or a higher position can be based on the characteristics of the guest ship i.e. the non host ship . If the guest ship has a low freeboard or is using a side port access then the hydraulic elevator is set at a lower piston position if on the other hand the guest ship has a high freeboard or is using its weather deck e.g. a deck house on the weather deck then the hydraulic elevator is set at a higher piston position. The length of the piston cylinder is typically selected as a function of the vertical height expected to be needed for the operating stroke of the piston cylinder. In typical operation of the inventive ramp system the vertical angle of the ramp is a function of the relative heights above the waterline of the top piston cylinder surface where the host end platform sits and the guest ship s deck surface where the guest end platform sits. In fact each of these heights above the waterline can vary for the corresponding individual ship because of changes in displacement by that ship. Typical embodiments of the inventive ramp system can accommodate a wide range of above waterline heights for the ramp apparatus s footing i.e. the surface of the guest ship upon which the guest end platform sits .

According to typical inventive practice the inventive ramp system s guest end platform is caused to be situated adjacent to and at the same horizontal level height as the structure with respect to which the inventive ramp system is being deployed. For instance if the guest end platform is considered for placement adjacent to a helicopter hangar typically twenty feet in height the piston cylinder should be configured to have a twenty foot vertical run. When the piston cylinder is in a lower e.g. its lowest position the guest end platform can interface with the flight deck. When the piston cylinder is extended twenty feet upward to an upper e.g. its highest position the guest end platform can interface with the overhead roof of the helicopter hangar. The host ship can have onboard plural inventive bridging ramp systems in place for instance two inventive ramp systems one starboard and the other port can be installed on opposite sides of the host ship. One or more non inventive ramps can be used in association with one or more inventive ramp systems. For instance a secondary ramp angled downward from the hangar overhead to the flight deck can be used to move cargo e.g. vehicles or personnel between these two levels aboard the host ship a conventional ramp can be utilized as this secondary ramp because there is no relative motion between the two levels of the same ship structure.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to and the present invention s bridging ramp system includes hydraulic elevator device and ramp apparatus . Hydraulic elevator device includes a hollow cylinder and a piston cylinder .

As shown in hollow cylinder and solid piston cylinder share geometric longitudinal axis a. Solid piston cylinder has a flat horizontal upper end surface . Piston cylinder snugly but slidably fits inside hollow cylinder . Piston cylinder is attributed with both translatability and rotatability that is piston cylinder is bidirectionally rotatable pivotable about and bidirectionally translatable linearly movable along axis a. Elevator device can be hydraulically activated so as to selectively and fixedly position piston cylinder along axis a in accordance with an amount of incompressible fluid in hollow cylinder .

Piston cylinder is attached inside hollow cylinder and is driven by hydraulic fluid . Tank is a reservoir for hydraulic fluid . Control system sends signals to pump and valve . Pump powered e.g. by an electric motor forces hydraulic fluid from tank into a conduit that connects to hollow cylinder . When valve e.g. a solenoid valve is opened the pressurized hydraulic fluid is conducted back to tank however when valve is closed the pressurized hydraulic fluid is conducted to via conduit and into hollow cylinder . The increase in amount of hydraulic fluid in hollow cylinder is accompanied by raising of piston cylinder since the hydraulic fluid pushes up piston cylinder . When piston cylinder reaches the desired height control system causes the pump to turn off since the fluid occupying hollow cylinder remains but no more fluid enters piston cylinder remains in place resting upon fluid . When valve is opened the fluid occupying hollow cylinder flows out of hollow cylinder and is conducted via conduit to tank .

As shown in and ramp apparatus includes a horizontal planar host end platform a planar guest end platform a planar ramp a horizontal host end hinge mechanism a horizontal guest end hinge mechanism a pair of ramp safety side rails and a pair of platform safety side rails . The present invention s ramp apparatus is frequently embodied so that the three major components of ramp apparatus are each rectangular are of equal width and are connected end to end to form a continuous ramp unit having an overall rectangular profile having that uniform width. The dimensions indicated in correspond to an inventive embodiment being considered for Navy use. Congruity of the end platforms frequently characterizes inventive practice note for instance that platforms and are shown to both be square each having length and width of 10 feet. The embodiment contemplated by the Navy is suitable for walking across and is particularly suitable for driving HUMVEE motor vehicles across from the host ship to the guest ship .

Host end platform is attached to piston cylinder whereby the flat horizontal bottom surface of host end platform is adjacent to the flat horizontal upper surface of piston cylinder that is host end platform securely sits surface to surface on top of piston cylinder . In furtherance of the structural integrity of the inventive ramp system frequent inventive practice provides for dimensional compatibility between host end platform and piston cylinder for instance so that host end platform has a length and width that equals or nearly equals the diameter of piston cylinder . Elevator device is designed so that the upper surface of piston cylinder is at all times at least even with and preferably at all times at least slightly above the top rim of hollow cylinder . In other words piston cylinder should always project to some degree out of hollow cylinder in order that the attachment of host end platform to piston cylinder not be compromised. Ramp the main ramp body of ramp apparatus is intermediate host end platform and guest end platform . Host end hinge mechanism vertically pivotably joins host end platform and ramp . Guest end hinge mechanism vertically pivotably joins guest end platform and ramp . Hinge mechanisms and each include not only hinge related components but also any attachment reinforcement components e.g. bolts that may be suitable for ensuring the trueness of the joint.

Inventive ramp system can be designed to accommodate pedestrian and or vehicular traffic. According to typical inventive operation in a marine context hollow cylinder containing piston cylinder is mounted at its bottom upon a deck of a host ship . Piston cylinder is hydraulically caused to be raised or lowered in order that the top surface of host end platform is even with a different higher or lower deck of host ship such as access deck shown in . Ramp apparatus is extended and oriented e.g. using a crane so as to place guest end platform at the desired location according to typical inventive practice a flat surface of the guest ship such as resting upon destination deck . Pedestrian and or vehicular traffic can walk or drive or otherwise travel e.g. using a bicycle or other un motorized wheeling capability from access deck onto host end platform across ramp onto guest end platform and onto destination deck . The two ramp safety side rails on opposite longitudinal sides of ramp and the two platform safety side rails on opposite longitudinal sides of host end platform serve to protect the entities crossing from falling off ramp apparatus and plunging into the sea below.

AM General Corporation manufactures the High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle abbreviated HMMWV which is popularly referred to as HUMVEE . The HUMVEE is a highly mobile four wheel drive U.S. military vehicle that provides a common light tactical vehicle capability. The HUMVEE can be configured in a variety of vehicular modes e.g. troop carrier armament carrier ambulance scout vehicle etc. An inventive bridging ramp system embodiment contemplated for Navy transfer of HUMVEEs and pedestrians between ships at sea includes a ramp 50 feet in length a host end platform 10 feet in length a guest end platform 10 feet in length and a piston cylinder 10 feet in diameter the ramp apparatus is thus 70 feet in length. This inventive embodiment under consideration by the Navy can accommodate a difference between the respective platform heights of the host and guest ships of up to 20 feet. Since the Navy s proposed inventive ramp system embodiment is primarily designed for only one basic vehicle type the design need not be especially complex.

Still referring to through and also referring to through inventive ramp system is imbued with great flexibility with respect to extension and orientation in order to situate guest end platform at a selected location. Firstly the height of host end platform can be adjusted by moving piston cylinder upward or downward along vertical axis a. Secondly the horizontal angle of ramp apparatus relative to perpendicular vertical geometric plane p which generally represents the perpendicular distance between host ship and guest ship can be adjusted by pivoting piston cylinder clockwise or counterclockwise about axis a. Thirdly the vertical angle of ramp relative to host end platform can be adjusted via pivoting of host end hinge mechanism . Fourthly the vertical angle of ramp relative to guest end platform can be adjusted via pivoting of guest end hinge mechanism .

Ramp apparatus is hinged in two places. Host end hinge mechanism connects ramp and host end platform and is just outboard with respect to host ship of where host end platform sits on the lifting piston cylinder . Host end hinge mechanism connects ramp and host end platform and is just outboard with respect to guest ship of where guest end platform sits on destination deck of guest ship . Hinge mechanisms and impart flexibility to ramp apparatus such that ramp apparatus can conform to practically any angle naturally develops between the two ships and doing so so as not to disturb the horizontal disposition of host end platform atop piston cylinder and so as to permit the horizontal disposition of guest end platform atop destination deck .

Typical inventive practice involves horizontality of both host end platform and guest end platform such as depicted in through hence under these typical circumstances vertical angle equals vertical angle so both vertical angles can be denoted simply as the same vertical angle . through illustrate more typical inventive practice wherein ramp is inclined downward from host end platform . Here the vertical angle of inclination the vertical angle with respect to the horizontal geometric plane defined by host end platform is either zero i.e. wherein host end platform and ramp are both horizontal or some downward acute angle. Generally speaking especially from a safety standpoint the present invention should be practiced so that the downward vertical angle does not exceed twenty degrees. and illustrate less typical inventive practice wherein ramp is inclined upward from host end platform . Here the vertical angle of inclination is either zero or some upward acute angle which particularly for safety reasons will generally not exceed twenty degrees .

The inventive embodiments that provide for downward vertical angles will not necessarily additionally provide for upward vertical angles . In cases of upward vertical angles the guest end hinge mechanism required for practicing downward vertical angles i.e. the downward vertical angle with respect to the horizontal geometric plane defined by guest end platform will generally be more complex sophisticated such as involving two hinges or three hinges with ramp platform sections therebetween. In contrast in cases of downward vertical angles the guest end hinge mechanism required for practicing upward vertical angles i.e. the upward vertical angle with respect to the horizontal geometric plane defined by guest end platform will generally be less complex sophisticated such as involving the single hinge shown in through .

Still referring to stowage of ramp apparatus can be accomplished by horizontally rotating ramp apparatus via active hydraulic horizontal rotation of piston cylinder about its vertical longitudinal axis from the outboard operating position to the inboard stowed position for instance ramp apparatus is rotated one hundred eighty degrees from the perpendicular outboard position to the perpendicular inboard position. Further ramp apparatus can stowed at a selected level e.g. from among different levels by raising and lowering the height of ramp apparatus. For instance ramp apparatus can be stowed on top of the hangar with piston cylinder in the uppermost position.

With reference to as a less frequently practiced alternative to rotation for inventive purposes of bring ramp apparatus from operation mode to stowage mode the ramp and guest end platform sections of ramp apparatus can be folded over e.g. vertically rotated approximately one hundred eighty degrees via host end hinge mechanism so that a portion of ramp sits upon host end platform however this fold over approach to stowability would generally require a more sophisticated host end hinge mechanism than would normally be required according to inventive practice. Some inventive embodiments feature foldability of the guest end platform over under the ramp. The rotation of ramp apparatus from its inboard stowage position to its outboard operation position can be effected either through active hydraulic horizontal rotation or passive horizontal rotation of the piston cylinder about its vertical longitudinal axis according to passive rotation piston cylinder is allowed to freely rotate while a crane moves ramp apparatus into position.

Generally speaking a seagoing ship is characterized by motion describable in terms of six degrees of freedom viz. heave surge sway roll pitch and yaw. The term six degrees of freedom is conventionally used to describe both translational motion and rotational motion of a body with respect to three perpendicular axes in three dimensional space. Regarding motion of ships the three kinds of translational ship motion are commonly referred to as heave linear movement along a vertical axis surge linear movement along a horizontal fore and aft axis and sway linear movement along a horizontal port and starboard axis the three kinds of rotational ship motion are commonly referred to as roll rotational movement about a horizontal fore and aft axis pitch rotational movement about a horizontal port and starboard axis and yaw rotational movement about a vertical axis .

Practice of the inventive adjustable height bridging ramp system typically involves the side by side mooring e.g. tying together using ropes of two ships in an approximately longitudinally parallel fashion and the deployment of the inventive system s ramp apparatus based on the host ship in a generally transverse direction approximately perpendicular to the ships with a typical leeway of approximately 30 from the host ship upon which the inventive system is based e.g. wherein the hydraulic elevator device s hollow cylinder is mounted on a deck of the host ship and the inventive ramp apparatus s host end platform is mounted atop the elevator device s piston cylinder to the guest ship with respect to which the inventive system is deployed e.g. wherein the inventive ramp apparatus s guest end platform is abuttingly placed upon a deck of the guest ship . The side by side mooring of the host and guest ships typically involving the tying together of the two ships and generally designed to constrain relative movement practically eliminates or at least substantially attenuates the relative generally horizontal motion between the two ships in terms of sway and roll of each ship. The inventive vertical damper system typically including one or more inventive vertical damper devices described in a concurrently filed application practically eliminates or at least substantially attenuates the relative generally vertical motion between the two ships in terms of heave and yaw of each ship.

The inventive vertical damping system emphasized in the afore noted concurrently filed application is typically practiced in association with a plurality of marine vessels and can be variously embodied to include one or more vertical damping devices. Notably the inventive vertical damping system diminishes the relative vertical movement between two or more water vessels that are moored in a skin to skin orientation. Each inventive vertical damping device which is included in an inventive vertical damping system is pivotally connected to a side portion of a first vessel and is detachably connected to a side portion of a second vessel. The inventive vertical damping device may describe a piston cylinder arrangement and the inventive vertical damping system may involve more than two marine vessels. The inventive vertical damping system counteracts the effect of vertical motion e.g. roll motion on marine vessels thereby enabling ship to ship operations such as cargo loading and the like.

Accordingly what the inventive bridging ramp system is primarily left to contend with are the forces associated with surge and pitch of each ship. The relative motion between the two ships may describe cyclical movement of the two ship hulls closer and farther apart. Inventive practice typically involves adjustment of the height and the horizontal and vertical angles of the inventive ramp system s ramp apparatus so as to finally be established in its fully useful deployment configuration whereby the guest end platform situated upon a guest ship surface which is typically flat and horizontal. Due to the generally horizontal relative motion between the two ships in terms of surge and pitch some sliding of the guest end platform will typically occur at least at times and perhaps frequently or continually depending on sea state once the inventive ramp apparatus is established in its final deployment configuration. According to usual inventive practice the basic components of the inventive ramp system i.e. host end platform ramp guest end platform host end hinge mechanism guest end hinge mechanism hollow cylinder piston cylinder are composed or substantially composed of a strong structural material such as a structural steel or other suitable metal or metal alloy material.

With reference to and inventive practice will normally provide for a bottom layer of sacrificial material such as wood attached beneath the main structure typically made of metal or metal alloy of the guest end platform. The sacrificial material layer typically coextensive with the main structural portion of the guest end platform serves a direct sliding contact function in association with the deck typically made of metal or metal alloy of the guest ship. The sacrificial material layer should be characterized by a sufficient degree of friction especially when contacting a ship deck typically made of steel to maintain a footing of the guest end platform upon the guest ship s deck surface but should also be characterized by a sufficient degree of skid capability so that the guest end platform can appropriately slide moderate distances upon the guest ship s deck surface because of the relative ship motion associated with surge and pitch of each ship. The sacrificial material layer can be continuous such as the wood plank shown in or discrete such as the wood slats shown in . As an alternative to attachment of a sacrificial layer underneath the guest platform s metal structure wheel means such as including wheels diagrammatically illustrated in can be provided.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

