---

title: Methods of detecting anomalies in ambient alternating current fields
abstract: Methods of detecting anomalies in ambient alternating current (AC) fields are provided. An exemplary embodiment of such a method includes the steps of placing an AC field sensor in an ambient AC field, generating a signal representative of the ambient AC field received by the sensor, and processing the signal to determine if the ambient AC field includes any anomalies. Various applications for the methods are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07920975&OS=07920975&RS=07920975
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07920975
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070820
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention generally relates to methods of detecting anomalies in ambient alternating current AC fields.

The prior art teaches various methods of detecting anomalies in ambient direct current DC fields. For example the prior art teaches the use of magnetic field sensors commonly referred to as magnetic anomaly detectors MAD to detect distortions in the earth s DC magnetic field caused by ferromagnetic objects. These types of sensors are typically limited by the dynamic range of the magnetic sensor and or geomagnetic noise.

The prior art also teaches the use of detecting anomalies in ambient DC fields using electric field sensors. These sensors detect distortions in the earth s DC electric field caused by conducting objects such as unarmed intruders and or aircraft that do not include any ferromagnetic components. Unfortunately alternating current AC electric fields generated by 60 Hertz Hz AC power lines typically referred to as 60 Hz power line hum interfere with these types of sensors and make it more difficult to detect anomalies in the earth s DC electric field.

Methods of detecting anomalies in ambient alternating current AC fields are provided. An exemplary embodiment of such a method includes the steps of placing an AC field sensor in an ambient AC field generating a signal representative of the ambient AC field received by the AC field sensor and processing the signal to determine if the ambient AC field includes any anomalies.

Another exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises placing an AC electric field sensor in an ambient AC electric field generated by an AC power line generating a signal representative of the ambient AC electric field received by the AC electric field sensor and processing the signal to determine if any anomalies are present in the ambient AC electric field.

Another exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises supplying a stable AC voltage to an AC power line to generate an ambient AC electric field placing an AC field sensor in the ambient AC field generating a signal representative of the ambient AC electric field received by the AC electric field sensor and processing the signal to determine if any anomalies are present in the ambient AC electric field.

Another exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises supplying a stable AC voltage to an arbitrary conducting surface to generate an ambient AC electric field placing an AC field sensor in the ambient AC electric field generating a signal representative of the ambient AC electric field received by the AC electric field sensor and processing the signal to determine if any anomalies are present in the ambient AC electric field.

Still another exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises supplying approximately stable AC current to an AC power line that causes the AC power line to generate an ambient AC magnetic field placing an AC magnetic field sensor in the ambient AC magnetic field generated by the AC power line generating a signal representative of the ambient AC magnetic field received by the AC magnetic field sensor and processing the signal to determine if any anomalies are present in the ambient AC magnetic field.

Other methods features and or advantages will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Methods for detecting anomalies in ambient alternating current AC fields are provided. In an exemplary embodiment one such method see includes the steps of placing an AC field sensor in an ambient AC field block generating a signal representative of the ambient AC field received by the AC field sensor block and processing the signal generated by the AC field sensor to determine if the ambient AC field includes any anomalies block .

The AC field sensor may be an AC electric field sensor or an AC magnetic field sensor both of which are well known in the art. For example AC electric and magnetic field sensors that may be used with the method shown in are commercially available from Quasar Federal Systems. When the AC field sensor is used with an AC power line it does not have to be connected to or draw any electric power from the power line. Instead it simply monitors the ambient AC field that exists whenever the power line is energized.

If the ambient AC field is generated by an AC power line as discussed in more detail below and an AC magnetic field sensor is used rather than an AC electric field sensor the method may include the step of supplying a stable AC current see block using a current source see in order to generate a stable AC magnetic field that can be used for anomaly detection. The frequency of the AC current supplied in this manner may or may not be different from the frequency of the AC power line. Changes in this magnetic field i.e. anomalies caused by the presence and or movement of ferromagnetic objects in this field may be detected using AC magnetic field sensors and the method shown in .

This step is used in this application because the current in an AC power line and as a result the ambient AC magnetic field generated by an AC power line changes significantly when equipment is turned on and off. The ambient AC electric field generated by an AC power line in contrast to the ambient AC magnetic field is related to the voltage on the power line and is stable over time. This is true because AC power lines are supplied with a highly regulated voltage that does not change significantly when equipment is turned on and off.

The ambient AC field may be any reasonably stable quasi static AC electric or magnetic field including the ambient AC electric field generated by a 60 Hertz Hz AC power line when it is energized and regardless of whether or not the power line is supplying power i.e. current to a load. Other sources of ambient AC fields may be used as well including sources that operate at frequencies other than 60 Hz. For example the stable AC electric field corresponding to the regulated voltage on the power lines can be the ambient field. The AC magnetic field corresponding to the current in the lines can also be the ambient field but this magnetic field is not as stable as the electric field because it changes as the power delivered by the lines changes.

As another example an AC voltage can be applied to the power lines or to any arbitrary conductor for that matter to generate a stable electric field at an arbitrary frequency. As another example an AC current can be applied to the power lines to generate a stable magnetic field at an arbitrary frequency.

The signal generated by the AC field sensor may be a voltage signal as described in more detail below or any other type of signal known in the art that can be properly processed to detect anomalies.

Such methods may be used in a variety of different applications including urban and other environments where ambient AC fields are present. For example some embodiments may be used in surveillance operations to detect anomalies caused by the presence and or movement of conducting or quasi conducting objects such as armed or unarmed personnel vehicles and low flying aircraft in ambient AC fields. When used in this manner and in connection with ambient AC fields generated by AC power lines signal processing techniques to reduce the clutter and resulting false positives that might be caused by voltage fluctuations on the AC power lines can be used.

In transmission and distribution line monitoring applications voltage fluctuations on AC power lines can be detected including unusual voltage fluctuations that typically occur prior to blackouts that sometimes occur.

Unusual voltage fluctuations caused by the movement of AC power lines also can be detected in some embodiments including dangerous sag due to heating caused by high electrical loads and or high ambient temperatures. Unusual voltage fluctuations due to sag typically occur on a very long timescale minutes or hours . Unusual voltage fluctuations caused by AC power lines moving in response to blowing wind occur on a relatively short timescale seconds that would be based on the resonant frequency of the AC power lines which in turn is a function of the weight tension and span length of the lines.

Proximity of trees to AC power lines caused by sagging lines blowing branches or growing trees also can be detected in some embodiments which would allow a power distribution company to know when to cut trees in the power line right of way. In this type of application physical mounting of the AC field sensor to a high voltage conductor could be employed.

Additionally or alternatively some embodiments can be used to detect the proximity of a truck boom to an AC power line. This type of application would be useful in ensuring that an operator stays a safe distance away from an energized power line.

In the last two applications discussed above anomalies generated by operators and power line voltage fluctuations would be signal clutter and should be distinguished from anomalies caused by the proximity of the trees to the power line and the proximity of the truck boom to the power line. This could be accomplished by using two different ambient AC field sources operating at two different frequencies as explained in U.S. Pat. No. 4 206 451 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The position of sensor relative to power line and the size shape and position of the object as well as the type of object passing through field determines the amount of fluctuation in amplitude that will occur in the signals generated by sensor . Thus in some cases the fluctuations in the amplitude of a signal generated by sensor will not be readily observable. This is illustrated by which shows a voltage signal generated by sensor when a flatbed truck not shown passes through field . As shown in this figure there is no perceptible change in the amplitude of signal as the truck passes through field .

Signals and shown in above resemble amplitude modulated AM signals having a 60 Hertz Hz carrier signal. By demodulating these signals baseband target signatures also referred to as target signatures or simply demodulated signals representative of the anomalies caused by vehicle and the person passing through field can be recovered. The object signature strength is dependant on the strength of field and the percent modulation which in turn is a complex function of size and shape of the object passing through field and the geometry of sensor the object and the power line area.

It should be noted that modulating the signal of interest and performing detection of that signal in the extremely low frequency band e.g. 60 Hz eliminates some of the problems associated with 1 f noise present in prior art methods of detecting anomalies in the ultra low frequency band used with ambient DC fields.

In some cases when the passing of an object through field results in extremely large variations in signal amplitude a simple AM demodulation circuit see can be used to recover the desired object signature from the power line electric field data. As shown in circuit includes an envelope detector and a low pass filter . Simple AM demodulation circuits like circuit are well known in the art and any one of these circuits may be used with the method described in this application.

In other cases particularly where the passing of an object through field does not result in extremely large variations in signal amplitude it may not be possible to use a simple AM demodulation circuit like circuit to obtain a desired object signature. In this type of situation a synchronous demodulation SDM circuit see may be used to obtain the desired object signature. This type of circuit may be effectively used to recover object signatures from noisy power line data having low signal to noise ratios and or low signal to clutter ratios.

Circuit includes a mixer a high gain clipper amplifier and a low pass filter . The raw signal generated by sensor is fed to both mixer and amplifier which generates a local oscillator signal not shown that is fed to mixer . By feeding the raw signal generated by sensor to circuit in this manner the carrier frequency of the raw signal will exactly match the local oscillator and slight variations in power line frequency will be compensated for automatically. Amplifier can be adjusted to remove all of the modulation from the incoming raw signal in order to improve the performance of circuit . Synchronous demodulation circuits are well known in the art and any one of these circuits may be used with the method described in this invention.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

