---

title: Method, mobile communication device, and system for selective downloading to a mobile communication device
abstract: A method, mobile communication device, and system for selective downloading to a mobile communication device are provided. In accordance with one embodiment, there is provided a method on a mobile communication device for downloading data from a content source to the mobile communication device, the mobile communication device being configured for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks (WLANs), the method comprising: receiving a request to download data; determining if the requested data comprises a media file; selecting a communication medium for downloading the requested data in accordance with whether the requested data comprises a media file; and downloading the requested data to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08145222&OS=08145222&RS=08145222
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08145222
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20071002
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication systems and more particularly to a method mobile communication device and system for selective downloading to a mobile communication device.

Wireless data networks for mobile devices such as mobile computers and mobile communication devices having data capabilities experience challenges relating to bandwidth bottlenecks due to the narrow bandwidth compared to wired data network connections such as broadband Internet connections. The amount of data requested by users is increasing due to increased adoption of mobile data devices due to users who are requesting more data and due to users who are requesting increasingly richer forms of data such as rich media types including for example images audio video and multimedia rather than plain text.

The high cost of cellular networks currently the primary medium for wireless communications means that users requesting large amounts of data and rich media will incur large data charges from their respective cellular carriers. This high cost dissuades many users from downloading large data files and from downloading rich media. The high cost also dissuades potential users from adopting new wireless technologies. Even with the application of state of the art data compression and data optimization techniques a high data overhead remains a challenge for meaningful data transmission to mobile data devices such as mobile handheld devices.

Another difficulty is that users may inadvertently or unknowingly transmit a large file such as a media file to their mobile devices. For example some web pages may contain additional media features which are automatically downloaded to the mobile device for example when a website is accessed. Users may wish to prevent such inadvertent transmissions or may wish to be given the choice regarding whether this additional content will be downloaded to the mobile device.

The present disclosure describes a method mobile communication device and system for selective downloading to a mobile communication device. Information about data such as media content to be downloaded to a mobile communication device is obtained and an appropriate communication delivery medium is selected based on one or both of whether the data is a media file and whether the data is of a size greater than or equal to a predetermined size threshold. The selected delivery medium may be a cellular data network such as GSM GPRS EDGE for example a wireless local area WLAN network such as Wi Fi network a physical interface such as a USB port or other serial data port or a short range wireless communication interface such as Bluetooth . In some embodiments if the selected delivery medium is not available an alternate delivery medium is selected or the data is queued for future download when the selected delivery medium becomes available.

Conventional mobile communication devices typically offer little or no control over the data delivery medium to be used when downloading data such as whether data should be downloaded using i a cellular data network via a wireless WAN which is typically a low speed high cost network or ii a WLAN network such as Wi Fi network a physical interface such as via a serial data connection with a local computer having access to the requested data or a short range wireless communication interface such as a Bluetooth connection with a local computer having access to the requested data which are typically higher speed and or lower cost alternatives.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure a mobile communication device determines the available communication medium s and a communication medium is selected from the available communication medium s in accordance with download rules which may be for example based on a low cost setting or a high speed setting. Determining the available communication medium s may comprise scanning for Wi Fi or WLAN access points. The communication medium s may be selected in accordance with a priority list. In some embodiments if one or more Wi Fi or WLAN connections are available the mobile communication device downloads all data using a Wi Fi or WLAN connection selected from the available connections in accordance with a priority list.

If the selected communication medium is not available the download be delayed and queued for future download when the selected communication medium becomes available or an alternate communication medium may be selected for example from a priority list. For example the requested data may be downloaded over a more expensive communication medium such as a high cost cellular data network if the user wishes immediate access to the requested data and the selected communication medium is not available.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a mobile communication device in response to a request to download data determines an indication of the size or type of the requested data. A communication medium for downloading the requested data is selected based on the determined size or size indication.

Determining the indication of size type of the requested data may comprise i determining if the requested data comprises a media file ii determining if the size of the requested data is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold iii determining if the requested data comprises a media file and determining if the size of the requested data is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold if the requested data comprises a media file or iv the requested data comprises a file type which has been determined to be large or was requested from an application which has been determined to having large data files. Thus in some embodiments the communication medium may be selected based on the size of the requested data without regard to whether the requested data comprises a media file.

The size of the requested data may be determined by requesting the size of the data from the content source where the requested data is located. The size may be obtained by requesting and receiving size information from a content server where the requested data is located. The content server may implement a proprietary solution for providing size information in respect to a download request from a communication device such as a proprietary header or metadata solution for non hypermedia and non HTML HyperText Markup Language documents. The present disclosure is not concerned with how size information is determined and stored by content servers but with the use of size information obtained from content servers in response to a request for such information. Accordingly solutions for determining and storing size information in association with content such as media data maintained by a content server are not described herein. However such solutions would appreciated by persons ordinarily skilled in the art.

Alternatively the size of the requested data may be determined by requesting receiving and analysing a header or header data concerning a hypermedia document such as an HTML document from the content server or Web server where the requested data is located. Headers of an HTML document may be obtained via a HTTP HEAD request. Header data often comprises metadata which includes information about the media content including the size of the hypermedia document.

An indication of size or type of the requested data be determined by determining if the requested data comprises a media file. Media files are typically large relative to non media files and so this may be a relative indication that the requested data is large in size. Where a check is performed to determining if the requested data comprises a media file if the requested data is determined to comprise a media file it is determined to be large and a suitable communication medium for large data files such as Wi Fi is selected and used for downloading the requested data. If the requested data is determined not to comprise a media file it is not determined to be large and may be downloaded using any communication medium such as a cellular data network .

Where the size of the requested data is determined if it is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold it is determined to be large and a suitable communication medium for large data files is selected such as Wi Fi and used for downloading the requested data. If the size of the requested data is less than the predetermined threshold it is not determined to be large and may be downloaded using any communication medium such as a cellular data network .

The communication medium may be selected in accordance with a low cost setting or high speed setting. The user setting may be stored in memory on the mobile communication device or the user may be prompted when they attempt to download data for example if they attempt to download data that is determined to comprise a media file and or determined to be relatively large.

If the selected communication medium is not available the download be delayed and queued for future download when the selected communication medium becomes available or an alternate communication medium may be selected for example from a priority list. For example the requested data may be downloaded over a more expensive communication medium such as a high cost cellular data network if the user wishes immediate access to the requested data and the selected communication medium is not available.

Reference is first made to which shows in block diagram form a communication system in which example embodiments of the present disclosure can be applied. The communication system comprises a number of mobile communication devices connected to a wireless network . The wireless network comprises one or more of a wireless Wide Area Network WAN and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN . In some embodiments the mobile communication device is configured to communicate over both the wireless WAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks.

The communication system also comprises a wireless network gateway with connects the mobile communication devices to the Internet and through the Internet to a network provider system comprising a network server such as an enterprise server. The wireless network gateway provides translation and routing services between the network server and the WAN which facilitates communication between the mobile communication devices and other devices not shown connected directly or indirectly to the wireless network . Accordingly communications sent via the mobile communication devices are transported via the wireless network to the wireless network gateway . The wireless gateway forwards the communications to the network server via the Internet. Communications sent from the network server are received by the wireless network gateway and transported via the wireless network to the mobile communication devices .

The wireless WAN may be implemented as a packet based cellular network that includes a number of transceiver base stations one of which is shown in where each of the base stations provides wireless Radio Frequency RF coverage to a corresponding area or cell. The wireless WAN is typically operated by a cellular network service provider that provides subscription packages to users of the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments the wireless WAN conforms to one or more of the following wireless network types Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC GSM Global System for Mobile Communication GPRS General Packet Radio System TDMA Time Division Multiple Access CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDPD Cellular Digital Packet Data iDEN integrated Digital Enhanced Network EvDO Evolution Data Optimized or various other third generation networks such as EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution or UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems or various other 3.5G networks such as HSPDA High Speed Downlink Packet Access or 4G networks.

The WLAN comprises a wireless network which in some embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other embodiments. The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP one of which is shown in that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

The WLAN is typically operated by an enterprise for example a business or university and the access points are connected to an access point AP interface . The AP interface provides translation and routing services between the access points and the network server to facilitate communication between two or more of the mobile communication devices and other devices connected directly or indirectly to the network server . The AP interface is implemented using a computer for example a server running a suitable computer program or software.

It will be appreciated that the wireless WAN and WLAN may have coverage areas that overlap at least partially. Typically the coverage area of the wireless WAN will be much larger than the coverage area of the WLAN and may overlap all or a large percentage of the coverage area of the WLAN . The WLAN may have sole coverage in some regions that are dead spots in the wireless WAN . For example some interior locations of an enterprise s buildings may be impenetrable to signals transmitted by the WAN . Typically the channel resources such as bandwidth available for providing content to the mobile communication devices will be greater over the WLAN than over the wireless WAN .

The network server may be implemented as one or more server modules and is typically located behind a firewall . The network server provides the mobile communication devices with access to the network provider or enterprise s internal network such as an enterprise network. The network server provides administrative control and management capabilities over users and mobile communication devices which may connect to the network . The network server is dedicated to managing communications to and from a set of managed mobile communication devices such that the mobile communication devices are each enabled to exchange electronic messages and other information with the network .

The network server allows the managed mobile communication devices to access resources of the network such as an email server for example a Microsoft Exchange IBM Lotus Domino or Novell GroupWise email server for connecting to an enterprise email system an Internet Web server for connecting to the Internet and World Wide Web WWW and one or more application servers or content servers for implementing enterprise applications or for accessing other servers such as an instant messaging IM server for connecting to an Instant messaging system. One or both of the Internet Web server or application content server may in some operational modes operate as proxy servers for obtaining content from a remote content source or content server where the content is stored sometime referred to as an origin server . The network server is configured to direct or redirect email messages Personal Information Management PIM instant messaging IM and other data received from the wireless network and internally within the network to be addressed to the mobile communication devices .

The network server also provides secure transmission of email PIM IM and other enterprise data transmitted from the network server to managed mobile communication devices . In some embodiments communications between the network server and the mobile communication devices are encrypted. In some embodiments communications are encrypted using a symmetric encryption key implemented using Advanced Encryption Standard AES or Triple Data Encryption Standard Triple DES encryption. Private encryption keys are generated in a secure two way authenticated environment and are used for both encryption and decryption of data. The private encryption key is stored only in the user s mailbox on the email server and on the mobile communication device and can typically be regenerated by the user on mobile communication devices . Data sent to the mobile communication devices is encrypted by the network server using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox. The encrypted data when received on the mobile communication devices is decrypted using the private encryption key stored in memory. Similarly data sent to the network server from the mobile communication devices is encrypted using the private encryption key stored in the memory of the mobile communication device . The encrypted data when received on the network server is decrypted using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox.

In some embodiments the network server comprises a mobile data delivery module not shown which provides connectivity between the wireless WAN and the WLAN and the other connections and mobile communication devices and or networks connected directly or indirectly to the network server . Alternatively the mobile data delivery module not shown may be implemented by a separate server or server application which is connected to the network server . In some embodiments the mobile data delivery module not shown provides TCP IP transmission control protocol Internet protocol and HTTP hypertext transfer protocol based connectivity providing an Internet based service connection. The mobile data delivery module provides access for the mobile communication devices to the Internet and World Wide Web WWW and possibly other external communication networks.

In some embodiments the network server is configured to enforce IT information technology policies on the mobile communication devices . IT policies are rules which govern the functionality of the mobile communication devices . The network server may periodically transmit IT policy messages to enforce modify or terminate IT policies on the connected computing devices. The network server transmits the IT policy messages through the wireless network to its managed mobile communication devices or via the physical interface e.g. serial data port such as a USB port or short range wireless communication interface e.g. Bluetooth connection when connected to the user s computer terminal . The IT policy messages may be security policies such as data protection security policies information and or security settings regarding these policies and or commands to be executed by the mobile communication devices . The IT policies can be set by an IT administrator of the network by sending an appropriate IT policy message to the mobile communication devices managed by the network server . The periodic transmission of IT policy messages from the network server the managed mobile communication devices assists in ensuring among other things that each of the mobile communication devices is kept up to date with the latest IT policy. The content and frequency of IT policy messages may be set by the IT administrator. In at least some embodiments the network server generates a private and public key pair for each mobile communication device to authenticate the IT policy messages. The IT policy private key is stored in the network server . The IT policy public key is stored on the mobile communication device . The network server digitally signs all IT policy messages using the IT policy public key which uses the IT policy public key to authenticate the digital signature in received IT policy messages. The IT policy messages and or rules contained within the IT policy messages may be stored in the memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile communication device .

In some embodiments the mobile data delivery module optimizes data requested by the mobile communication devices in accordance with the runtime environment and or technical capabilities of the mobile communication device which requested the data. For example where the requested data is a Hypertext Markup Language HTML document the mobile data delivery module generates an optimized HTML document in accordance with the runtime environment and or technical capabilities of the mobile communication device and transmits the optimized HTML document to the mobile communication device .

The wireless network gateway is adapted to route data packets received from the mobile communication device over the wireless network to destination email and or Instant messaging server Internet Web servers and one or more application servers through the mobile data delivery module and to route data packets received from the servers through the mobile data delivery module over the wireless network to a destination mobile communication device . The wireless network gateway forms a connection or bridge between the servers and wireless networks associated with wireless e mail communication and or Internet access.

The network may comprise a private local area network wide area network or combinations thereof. Typically the network is an intranet of a corporation or other organization. The network server may also provide access to other public or private communication networks such as the Internet . Computer terminals one of which is shown in such as desktop or notebook computers are also connected to the network . A user associated with a particular mobile communication device typically has a computer terminal designated for his or her use that is connected to the network by a wired connection or through a WLAN access point interface . Alternatively in some embodiments if the mobile communication device is a mobile computer such as a notebook computer that may connect directly to the network using a wired connection or through a WLAN access point interface .

The communication system also comprises one or both of a physical interface and short range wireless communication interface for exchanging information between the network server and the mobile communication device via the computer terminal . The physical interface comprises one or combinations of an Ethernet connection Universal Serial Bus USB connection Firewire also known as an IEEE 1394 interface connection or other serial data connection. In some embodiments where the mobile communication device is a handheld device such as a smart phone or PDA the physical interface may be a connection between respective ports or interfaces of the mobile communication device a computer terminal such as the user s desktop or laptop computer which is connected to the network server by a wired connection or through WLAN access point interface . The short range wireless communication interface comprises one or a combination of an infrared IR or short range radio frequency RF communication such as Bluetooth or other wireless personal area network PAN interface which allows the mobile communication device to exchange information with the computer terminal and the network server via the computer terminal .

It will be appreciated that the above described communication system is provided for the purpose of illustration only and that the above described communication system comprises one possible communication network configuration of a multitude of possible configurations for use with the mobile communication devices . Suitable variations of the communication system will be understood to a person of skill in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Reference is next made to which illustrates in block diagram form a mobile communication device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The mobile communication device is a two way communication device having at least data and possibly also voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile communication device in various embodiments the device may be a data communication device a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The mobile communication device includes a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network . The wireless communication subsystem comprises at least a WAN communication subsystem for two way communication with the wireless WAN and a WLAN communication subsystem two way communication with the WLAN via the access points . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile communication device . As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile communication device is intended to operate.

The mobile communication device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile communication device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The mobile communication device includes a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile communication device . The microprocessor interacts with communication subsystem which performs communication functions. The microprocessor also interacts with additional device subsystems such as a display which may be a backlight light emitting diode LED screen or liquid crystal display LCD screen a flash memory a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port such as serial data port for example a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a keyboard or keypad a speaker microphone a clickable thumbwheel trackwheel or trackball a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as .

The microprocessor operates under stored program control and executes computer programs or code modules stored in memory such as persistent memory such as the flash memory . The computer programs or code modules comprise two general categories of software operating system software and software applications . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the operating system specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The software applications may include a range of applications including for example an address book application a messaging application a calendar application and or a notepad application. In some embodiments the software applications include a Web browser i.e. for a Web enabled mobile communication device an email message application a push content viewing application and or a voice communication i.e. telephony module. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display according to the application.

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile communication device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a satellite network not shown .

Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. Notably some subsystems such as the keypad the display and the clickable thumbwheel trackball for example may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the wireless network and executing device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a removable memory card typical comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access to the WAN and possibly the WLAN is typically associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile communication device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the mobile communication device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The mobile communication device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile communication device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless communication network wireless network service data and the wireless gateway gateway service data . The data may also include other data user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile communication device by its user. The data may also include data required for the communication layers managed by the network server and servers . The data may includes critical data that the user of mobile communication device or the user s associated enterprise does not want to be accessed by an unauthorized party. Some of the data may be stored on the memory card . The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile communication device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The serial data port may be used in a PDA type communication device for synchronization with a user s computer terminal . The serial data port is a Universal Serial Bus USB port in some embodiments. The serial data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile communication device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile communication device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through the serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth connection to the computer terminal using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile communication device to the computer terminal via a USB cable the network server will automatically route traffic that was destined for the wireless network to the mobile communication device over the internal network using the USB cable connected to the mobile communication device . Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network will be automatically sent over the USB cable to the network server for processing. This is sometimes referred to as least cost routing. In some embodiments the user has the ability to automatically route traffic over a Bluetooth connection to their computer rather than relying on USB connectivity. All traffic to and from the mobile communication device is routed over the internal network which may be for example a wired network saving the user from utilizing additional bandwidth from their wireless service provider. When least cost routing is used on the mobile communication device it is performed automatically by the low level protocol layers and does not require any changes to an application for it to utilize this capability.

The mobile communication device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile communication device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile communication device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile communication device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. .

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile communication device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile communication device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem other wireless communication interfaces. The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the microprocessor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile communication device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile communication device .

The mobile communication device may include a personal information manager PIM application having the ability to organize and manage data items relating to a user such as but not limited to instant messaging email calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. The PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . In some example embodiments PIM data items are seamlessly combined synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the user s corresponding data items stored and or associated with the user s computer terminal thereby creating a mirrored host computer on the mobile communication device with respect to these data items.

The mobile communication device provides two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the microprocessor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email message application and output to the display . A user of the mobile communication device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the keypad and or the clickable thumbwheel or trackball in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O device . The keypad maybe either a complete alphanumeric keypad or telephone type keypad. These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile communication device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and the keyboard or keypad . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

It will be appreciated that the mobile communication device may be configured to communicate with a content store such as the Internet Web server or content server via the network server through different communication mediums comprising i the wireless WAN when within the coverage area of a transceiver base station ii the WLAN when within the respective coverage area of a WLAN access point iii a physical or short range wireless communication interface when connected to the network server via a wired interface or within the coverage area of the short range wireless communication interface such Bluetooth or other wireless PAN.

Reference is now made to which illustrates operations for selecting a communication medium for downloading data e.g. media content from a content source such as a content server or remote media content store to the mobile communication device in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In this example embodiment the operations are executed by the processor of a mobile communication device . The operations may be executed by a Web browser or other application on the mobile communication device which accesses remote data such as media viewer or player applications particularly streaming media applications. As described above the mobile communication device is configured for connecting to a network server via a cellular data network and one or more alternate communication mediums such as Wi Fi Bluetooth or serial data bypass. The network server accesses the content source via the Internet or other communication network. In the first step a request to download data to the mobile communication device is received from a user via respective user input on the mobile communication device .

Next in step an indication of the size or type of the requested data is determined. The step may be implemented in different ways as will be explained in more detail below. Determining the indication of size may comprise i determining if the requested data comprises a media file ii determining if the size of the requested data is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold or iii determining if the requested data comprises a media file and determining if the size of the requested data is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold if the requested data comprises a media file.

It will be appreciated that determining the size of the requested data without any consideration for the type of data may result in increased processing associated with performing this step for all data requests. Determining if the requested data comprises a media file without any consideration of the size of the data may result in small data files which are not problematic to be filtered or processed differently.

Determining if the requested data comprises a media file which should be subject to selective downloading for large file delivery may be determined in different ways as will be explained in more detail below in the context of operations and . In some embodiments determining if the requested data comprises a media file comprises determining if the requested data is of a predetermined file type e.g. a file having a certain file extension or determining if the request originated from one of a predetermined list of applications which have been classified as media applications.

In other embodiments determining the indication of size in step may comprise determining whether the requested data comprises a file of predetermined type which has been determined to be large for the purposes of the download operations and been classified as such within memory for example within the download preferences. This comprises comparing the file type of the requested data from the download request step against a list of one or more predetermined file types such as media files PDF documents hypermedia documents word processing documents and or other rich media files which have been classified as large and if the file type of the requested data is within the list of predetermined file types the requested data is determined to be a large.

In other embodiments determining the indication of size in step may comprise determining the application on the mobile communication device from which the download request step originated comparing it against a predetermined list of applications determined to utilize large data files and been classified as such within memory. If the application is within the predetermined list of applications which have been classified utilizing large data files the requested data is determined to be a large. The predetermined list of applications comprises a list of local applications on the mobile communication device and is stored in memory for example within the download preferences.

Next in step it is determined whether the indication matches a download rule for large file delivery. If the indication matches a download rule for large file delivery the operations proceed to step where a communication medium for large data files such as Wi Fi is selected. If the indication does not match a download rule for large file delivery the operations proceed to step where the requested data is downloaded using any communication medium such as a cellular data network .

Depending of the embodiment and the indication determined in step the indication matches download rule for large file delivery i if the requested data comprises a media file ii the size of the requested data is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold iii if the requested data comprises a media file and the size is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold or iv the requested data comprises a file type which has been determined to be large or was requested from an application which has been determined to having large data files. Conversely in these embodiment the indication does not match download rule for large file delivery i if the requested data does not comprises a media file ii if the size of the requested data is less than the predetermined threshold iii if the requested data comprises a media file and the size is less than the predetermined threshold or iv the requested data does not comprises a file type which has been determined to be large and was not requested from an application which has been determined to having large data files.

Next in step the requested data is downloaded to the mobile communication device using any communication medium typically the active communication medium which may be the cellular data network of the wireless WAN and the operations end. The communication medium may be set or determined in accordance with a download setting or download rule . Other delivery mediums for small files may also be used. For example if the mobile communication device has cellular data and Wi Fi connectivity and the mobile communication device is in Wi Fi mode Wi Fi may be used to download the requested data. In some embodiments the download rules may specify that a cellular data network can only be used if the requested data is determined not to be large i.e. if it does not comprise a media file and or the requested data has a size less than the predetermined size threshold .

Next in step a communication medium for large data files is selected. The selection may be in accordance with a download rule . The communication medium may be selected from one or a combination of a WLAN connection such as Wi Fi a serial data connection such as a USB connection and a short range wireless communication connection such as Bluetooth . The communication medium may also be selection from or one or more wireless WAN connection such as a cellular data network for example .

The download rules may specify a predetermined communication medium to use such as Wi Fi or a priority list of communication mediums for use in selecting a communication medium. The priority list may list communication mediums in a descending order of priority. For example the priority list may comprise one or more of one or more preferred cellular data networks preferred for cost and or speed one or more WLAN Wi Fi connections one or more short range wireless communication connection such as Bluetooth and one or more serial data connection. A download setting may be associated with a corresponding download rule . Depending on the download setting the communication mediums or priority list may be selected to lower data charges i.e. the low cost setting to lower download times i.e. the high speed setting or to optimize download cost and speeds i.e. the optimize setting . While higher speeds are often associated with higher data charges this is not always the case. For example EVDO A may be a relatively fast cellular data network and may have relatively high associated data charges whereas some Wi Fi access points or hot spots are faster and may be free of charge. Similarly a serial bypass connection is faster and free of wireless data charges.

The selected communication medium may be selected from multiple cellular data networks multiple WLANs Wi Fi networks one or more short range wireless communication connection such as Bluetooth and one or more serial data connections. In some implementations Wi Fi networks may be deemed to free whereas other implementations may have awareness of whether a particular Wi Fi network has an associated charge. Even when a Wi Fi network is tariffed it is typically much cheaper than a cellular data network. Bluetooth and serial data connections have no associated data charges and so are free. In the majority of use case scenarios media and or large files are to be downloaded over Wi Fi whereas no larger files such as media files may be downloaded using a cellular data network. In these use case scenarios cellular data networks are to be used for downloading only small files.

The download rules are typically stored in memory of the mobile communication device typically as part of download preferences stored in memory for example in the flash memory . In some embodiments the download preferences such as the download settings and download rules may be set by the user or via an IT policy rule by the IT system administrator which is pushed out to the managed mobile communication device using IT policy messages . An example user interface for setting download preferences is described below with reference to .

Next in step the mobile communication device determines if the selected communication medium is available. If the selected communication medium is available then operations proceed to step where the requested data is downloaded using the selected communication medium. For example selected communication medium may be Wi Fi and the mobile communication device may be within the coverage of a WLAN access points or may be connected to the computer terminal via the serial data port for example using USB connectivity or via a short range wireless communication interface for example using Bluetooth if either of these were the selected communication medium .

It will be appreciated that downloading the requested data using the selected communication medium may require as a preliminary step a network connection to be established in some instances for example if the selected communication medium is Wi Fi but the mobile communication device is not currently connected to the corresponding WLAN the required network connection must be established by the mobile communication device . This may involve providing user name login ID and password information and possibly other credentials which may include payment information if the WLAN is not free . Login information may be retained after the first login for a period of time for example for the calendar day eliminating the need for a user to re enter this information during the retention period.

In some embodiments if the indication matches a rule for large file delivery step the user of the mobile communication device may be notified that they are attempting to download data which has been determined to be large and may be given the option of downloading the requested data using any active communication medium for example to obtain immediate access to the requested data. This may be for example because the user is not concerned with data charges and or the selected communication medium for large file delivery is not available. Downloading of the requested data may be delayed for a predetermined amount of time for example for 5 10 seconds while a notification and prompt for a bypass action are presented to the user. The bypass action may comprise selecting a corresponding command button in a dialog box presented on the display screen . A countdown timer for the predetermined amount of time may be presented on the display screen . The requested data may be downloaded using the cellular data network or other active communication medium if user input to use the cellular data network or other active communication medium is received before the expiry of the predetermined amount of time.

If the user provides input via the user input device s of the mobile communication device that immediate access is desired the operations proceed to step where the requested data is downloaded to the mobile communication device using any active communication medium which may be a high cost cellular data network of the wireless WAN . This effectively bypasses the download rules . If the user does not provide input that immediate access is the operations proceed to step where a communication medium is selected.

If the selected communication medium is not available the operations proceed to step where the download is delayed until it becomes available. The communication medium may not be available because for example the mobile communication device is not within the coverage of the WLAN or is not connected to the computer terminal via the serial data port or short range wireless communication interface . In some embodiments a continual check is performed at predetermined intervals of time until the selected communication medium becomes available for example on a minute by minute or hourly basis. In other embodiments an alert will be issued for example using an interrupt or other command from the communication subsystem when the communication medium becomes available. In response to the alert the mobile communication device begins download using the communication medium.

In some embodiments a countdown timer is initiated which delays the download for a predetermined amount of time as shown step . If the predetermined amount of time has not expired the delay continues as described above. After the expiry of the predetermined amount of time the operations loop back to step where an alternate communication medium is selected for example the next communication medium in a priority list may be selected for downloading the requested data. This step may be repeated for each communication medium in the priority list. In some embodiments if none of the communication mediums in the priority list are available the user may be notified and or prompted to determine if immediate access to the requested stat is desired in which case any active communication medium may be selected using user input to this effect. Alternatively if none of the communication mediums in the priority list are available the download may be cancelled. Alternatively no delay may be performed for example based on user settings and the requested data is not downloaded if the selected communication medium is not available at the time the request is made. In this case a notification is presented to the user of the mobile communication device .

Preferences regarding the above noted alternatives may be stored in the download preferences stored in the memory of the mobile communication device for example the flash memory .

It will be appreciated that the exact order of steps in the operations may vary and that some steps may not be required in some example embodiments. It will also be appreciated that if the requested data comprises one or more data files which may be embedded or linked data files within a Hypertext Markup Language HTML document e.g. Web page or other hypermedia document the operations may be performed for each data file in the requested data.

In terms of relative cost and bandwidth communication over the wireless WAN typically has the highest cost and lowest bandwidth compared with Wi Fi Bluetooth and serial bypass. Communication over the wireless LAN Wi Fi is typically less costly and provides more bandwidth relative to the WAN . Communication over Bluetooth or serial bypass typically has the lowest cost and greatest bandwidth and in some cases may have no cost in terms of an associated data transmission charge.

An example use case scenario will now be described for the purpose of illustration only. The mobile communication device has cellular data network and Wi Fi connectivity. A user accesses an online music store via a Web browser or standalone application using the mobile communication device . The user may access the online music store using either a cellular data network or Wi Fi . The active download rules specify that any download request for media files which are greater than 100 kB in size should use Wi Fi whereas smaller files may be downloaded using the cellular data network or Wi Fi whichever is available if both are available then Wi Fi .

The user may browse albums songs prices and other information about media for sale in the online music store. After making a selection for downloading for example after purchasing an album for download the mobile communication device determines that the download request includes audio files and which are greater than 100 kB and so are large in size. Downloading the album will be costly using a cellular data network. In accordance with the operations the songs in the album match the download rule for selective downloading using large file delivery which in this example means Wi Fi . Accordingly the songs must be downloaded using Wi Fi . However the mobile communication device may not be in the range of a Wi Fi access point or hot spot and so the download may need to be delayed until the mobile communication device is in range. However the album or cover art and or track information may be less than 100 kB and so may be downloaded using a cellular data network.

Reference is next made to which illustrates operations for execution by a mobile communication device for determining if requested data comprises a media file for selective downloading using large file delivery in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure. The operations may be executed by a Web browser or other application on the mobile communication device which access media files such as media viewer or player applications particularly streaming media applications. The operations are a subprocess that may be used in implementing steps and i.e. determining an indication of the requested data and determining if the indication matches a download rule for large file delivery.

In the first step the mobile communication device determines if the requested data comprises a media file. This may be implemented in several ways. In some embodiments determining whether the requested data comprises a media file comprises comparing the file type of the requested data from the download request step against a list of predetermined media file types and if the file type of the requested data is within the list of predetermined media file types the data is determined to be a media file. The list of predetermined media file types may comprise one or a combination of predetermined lists of i hypermedia files having embedded or linked objects ii audio files iii video files iv image files and v graphics files. The list of predetermined media file types may include other type of media or multimedia file types. Generally a media file is considered to be an audio file video file image file graphics file or a hypermedia file having one or more embedded or linked audio files video files image files graphics files.

Example hypermedia files which may be included in a predetermined list include but are limited to Hypertext Markup Language HTML documents Wireless Markup Language WML documents Compact HTML cHTML documents Extensible HyperText Markup Language xHTML documents Handheld Device Markup Language HDML documents or other Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML documents.

Example audio file types which may be included in a predetermined list include but are limited to Wave WAV Audio Interchange File Format AIFF AU MP3 ATRAC AAC Vorbis Windows Media Audio WMA FLAC Shorten Monkey s Audio ATRAC Advanced Lossless Apple Lossless WMA Lossless TTA and WavPack files.

Example video file types which may be included in a predetermined list include but are limited to Windows Media Video Files MVFs Advanced System Format ASF Audio Video Interleaved AVI and MPEG movie files.

Example image and graphics file types which may be included in a predetermined list include but are limited to JPEG GIF BMP TIFF RAW IMG PDF SVG and SWF files.

In other embodiments determining whether the requested data comprises a media file comprises determining the application on the mobile communication device from which the download request step originated and comparing the application against a predetermined list of application classifications and if the determined application is classified as a media application within the list of application classifications the requested data is determined to be a media file. Typically the predetermined list of application classifications comprises a list of local applications on the mobile communication device each of which is associated with a classification of the application e.g. media non media application limit no limit etc. that allows the mobile communication device to determine whether the data files requested from this application should be filtered by the operations . The predetermined list of application classifications may be stored in memory of the mobile communication device for example within the download preferences.

If the requested data is determined not to comprise a media file the requested data is not large and the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data does not match a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

If the requested data is determined to comprise a media file the operations proceed to optional step where the size of the requested data is determined. Steps and may not be performed in all embodiments in which case the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data matches a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

The size of the requested data may be determined by requesting the size of the data from the content source where the requested data is located. The size may be obtained by requesting and receiving size information from a content server where the requested data is located. The content server may implement a proprietary solution for providing size information in respect to a download request from a communication device such as a proprietary header or metadata solution for non hypermedia and non HTML HyperText Markup Language documents. The present disclosure is not concerned with how size information is determined and stored by content servers but with the use of size information obtained from content servers in response to a request for such information. Accordingly solutions for determining and storing size information in association with content such as media data maintained by a content server are not described herein. However such solutions would appreciated by persons ordinarily skilled in the art.

Alternatively the size of the requested data may be determined by requesting receiving and analysing a header or header data concerning a hypermedia document such as an HTML document from the content server or Web server where the requested data is located. Headers of an HTML document may be obtained via a HTTP HEAD request. Header data often comprises metadata which includes information about the media content including the size of the hypermedia document. Header information may be obtained via an intermediary such as a proxy server.

Next in step the determined size of the media file is compared against a predetermined size threshold e.g. x MB . In some embodiments there may be different thresholds for each data type e.g. hypermedia audio data video data images etc. or each particular file type. If the determined size is less than the predetermined threshold the requested data is not large and the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data does not match a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

If the determined size is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold the requested data is large and the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data matches a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

It will also be appreciated that if the requested data comprises one or more data files the operations may be performed for each data file in the requested data.

An Example Method for Determining if Requested Data Comprises Large HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol Content

Reference is next made to which illustrates operations for determining if requested data comprises HTTP hypertext transfer protocol content for downloading using large file delivery in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure. The operations may be executed by a Web browser or other application on the mobile communication device which access hypermedia documents such a media player or email client. The operations are a subprocess that may be used in implementing steps and i.e. determining an indication of the requested data and determining if the indication matches a download rule for large file delivery.

In the first step the mobile communication device determines if the requested hypermedia document such as an HTML document comprises one or more embedded objects. If the HTML document does not comprise an embedded object the requested data is not large and the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data does not match a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

If the HTML document comprises an embedded object operations proceed to optional step where the size of the embedded object is determined. Steps and may not be performed in all embodiments in which case the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data matches a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

Next in step the determined size of the embedded object is compared against a predetermined size threshold. If the determined size is less than the predetermined threshold the requested data is not large and the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data does not match a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

If the determined size is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold the requested data is large and the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data matches a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

In one embodiment the step of determining the size of the embedded objects comprises determining the data length attribute of the embedded object stored in an object tag in the HTML document. This step may be performed by the Web browser on the mobile communication device in response to a user request to access a Web page or other HTML document. The data length attribute may be obtained by requesting and receiving the HTML document from the content server without downloading the embedded objects. The downloaded HTML document may then be analyzed in terms of the data length attribute of the embedded objects in the HTML document. Next in step the data length attribute is compared to the predetermined threshold. If the data length attribute is less than the predetermined threshold the requested data is not large and the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data does not match a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

If the data length attribute is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold the requested data is large and the operations proceed to step where a determination that the requested data matches a download rule for large file delivery is returned for example to the operations and the operations end.

Alternately if the content server or other content source is accessed via a proxy server the data length attribute of embedded objects may be determined by the proxy server used for accessing the requested data from the content source as an intermediary. In some embodiments the mobile data delivery module of the network server acts as a proxy server for the mobile communication device which optimizes the requested data in accordance with the runtime environment and or technical capabilities of the mobile communication device which requested the data. In response to a request to download data the mobile data delivery module generates an optimized HTML document in accordance with the runtime environment and or technical capabilities of the mobile communication device and transmits the optimized HTML document to the mobile communication device . In such embodiments the proxy server may determine the size of embedded objects and generate a modified and or optimized HTML document in which a corresponding data length attribute object is inserted the optimized HTML document being transmitted to the mobile communication device .

In other embodiments the step of determining the size of the embedded objects comprises requesting and receiving an HTTP header of the requested HTML document from the content source i.e. an HTTP content server Web server in some embodiments via an intermediary such as a proxy server. HTTP Headers of an HTML document may be obtained via a HTTP HEAD request without downloading the HTML document itself. Headers often comprise metadata which includes information about the document including its size. The HTTP header of the HTML document may comprise a content length header. The content length header is an HTTP header that indicates the size of an HTML document or an embedded object. In some embodiments the size of the embedded object s is determined by requesting the HTTP header s of the embedded object s via an HTTP HEAD request. An HTTP HEAD request on the HTML document will not return headers which include the size of any embedded objects or linked objects. The returned HTTP headers relate to the HTML document itself. Therefore to determine the size of embedded objects an HTML object handler module of the HTTP server typically has to perform a HEAD request on specific embedded objects to determine its size. HTML object handlers modules are known in the art will not be described herein. The downloaded HTTP headers can then be analysed locally on the mobile communication device .

If the content server or other content source is accessed via a proxy server the step of requesting the HTTP header s of the HTML document is performed by the proxy server used for accessing the requested data from the content source as an intermediary. In some embodiments the mobile data delivery module of the network server acts as a proxy server for the mobile communication device which optimizes the requested data in accordance with the runtime environment and or technical capabilities of the mobile communication device which requested the data. In response to a request to download data the mobile data delivery module generates an optimized HTML document in accordance with the runtime environment and or technical capabilities of the mobile communication device and transmits the optimized HTML document to the mobile communication device . In such embodiments the proxy server may request the HTTP header of the HTML document and generate a modified and or optimized HTML document which includes in its HTTP header s the content length header of the one or more embedded objects as an indication of size.

It will also be appreciated that if the HTML document comprises more than one embedded object i.e. audio file video file image file or graphics file etc. the operations are repeated for each embedded object in the requested HTML document. In some embodiments the step of comparing the size of the embedded object against the predetermined threshold could be based on the total size of all embedded objects which may be determined using data length attributes or content length header of the embedded objects as described above .

In other embodiments the operations may be adapted for determining the size of linked objects i.e. audio file video file image file or graphics file etc. in addition to or instead of embedded objects.

It will be appreciated that while the above described example embodiments describe methods and processes implemented in software e.g. a computer program computer code modules or code components executed primarily by the mobile communication device in other embodiments some of the process steps executed by the mobile communication device may be performed by the network server for example by the mobile data delivery module proxy server the wireless network gateway and or a combination thereof. For example determining the indication of the size or type of the requested data and selecting the communication medium may occur on the network server the wireless network gateway and or a combination thereof rather than the mobile communication device provided the selection of the communication medium is provided to the mobile communication device prior to download. It can be appreciated that different steps of the above described methods and processes may be performed by different components of the communication system in different embodiments.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an example download options user interface shown on a display of the mobile communication device . The user interface in the shown embodiment is for a Web browser on the mobile communication device however a similar user interface may be implemented for other applications on the mobile communication device which access remote data such as media viewer or player applications particularly streaming media applications. The user interface may be configured by a user subscriber of the mobile communication device an IT system administrator the manufacturer a network provider or potentially other parties who may be interested in controlling downloads to the mobile communication device for example to limit content or large data files downloaded over a high cost network.

The user interface may have a sub menu for example to permit a user to configure the download rules for a wireless WAN or cellular data network. For example the configuration of the user interface may be used to modify the methods or performed by the mobile communication device as appropriate. As shown the sub menu includes a max file size menu which sets a predetermined file size threshold a multimedia toggle a file extension menu a download rule response menu and a notify user toggle .

The max file size menu permits the user to configure the maximum file size that may be downloaded under the higher cost communication medium. In the extreme cases 0 kB represents that no data files will be accessible over the WAN network and Unlimited represents that all data files will be accessible over the WAN network. The multimedia toggle permits a user to only filter multimedia files. The multimedia toggle can thus be used as an initial filter for data files or can be used as a complete filter i.e. by setting the max file size menu to kB . The multimedia toggle may be facilitated by using the file extension menu whereby the user can designate which file extensions will be initially selected for further processing. Although multimedia files are shown as an example because of their typical large file sizes it can be appreciated that any file extension can be designated in the file extension menu . The download rule response menu shown as a dropdown menu gives the user the available response of the device for when a data file exceeds the maximum file size as set out in max file size menu . As shown the user choose to stop the download of the data file by selecting NO DOWNLOAD choose to wait until a lower cost alternate communication medium is available by selecting DELAY DOWNLOAD or choose to be given the option at runtime to select whether a lower cost alternate communication medium should be used by selecting PROMPT . Alternate communication mediums may be selected based on a download setting or priority list as described above. Under the DELAY DOWNLOAD if an alternate communication medium is already available the download may commence using the alternate communication medium in which case there may be little or no delay. The notify user toggle allows the user to be notified when a response is taken i.e. when the downloading of the data file is stopped or delayed. For example a notification may be displayed on the display of the mobile communication device and or a sound may be produced via the speaker .

Reference is now made to which illustrates a data object corresponding to a configuration of the user interface . The data object may for example be stored in flash memory for accessing by the appropriate application such as the Web browser. As shown the data object corresponds to the maximum file size shown as MB the multimedia toggle shown as TRUE the types of file extensions to be filtered and the notify user toggle shown as TRUE . The data object shows the response of the mobile communication device shown as DELAY DOWNLOAD when a download request matches the current WAN download rule i.e. the requested data comprises a media file of predefined type and is greater than or equal to the max file size . In addition data object shows a list e.g. a queue stack or other configuration showing the files that were delayed from downloading. When a lower cost communication medium is available these files may be automatically or manually i.e. by prompting the user be downloaded into the mobile communication device .

While downloading streaming data is discussed it will be appreciated that live streaming data cannot be delayed as described above in the operations . Accordingly only cached streaming data may be delayed for download in accordance with the operations . However if the communication medium for such large media is available such as Wi Fi live streaming data can be downloaded to the mobile communication device.

Although reference has been made to certain wireless network types and standards for the purpose of illustration such as the IEEE 802.11x standards it will be appreciated that the present disclosure is intended to cover all further revisions supplements additions and replacements to the referenced network types and standards whether or not explicitly described above. For example while wireless network alternatives to the cellular data network of the wireless WAN have been described primarily as being WLAN or Wi Fi it will be appreciated that other wireless network types may be used such as for example the IEEE 802.16 standard or WirelessMAN Wireless Metropolitan Area Network standard commercially known as WiMAX .

In accordance with one embodiment there is provided a method on a mobile communication device for downloading data from a content source to the mobile communication device the mobile communication device being configured for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs the method comprising receiving a request to download data determining if the requested data comprises a media file selecting a communication medium for downloading the requested data in accordance with whether the requested data comprises a media file and downloading the requested data to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

The method may further comprise determining whether the selected communication medium is available downloading the requested data to the mobile communication device over the selected communication medium if it is available and delaying the download if the selected communication medium is not available.

The download may be delayed until the selected communication medium is available or a predetermined amount of time. The method may further comprise selecting an alternative communication medium after the expiry of the predetermined amount of time.

The communication medium may be selected from the following communication mediums a cellular data network a WLAN a serial data interface or a short range wireless communication interface. The short range wireless communication interface may be a Bluetooth interface.

The selecting may be based on the availability of the communication mediums or a priority list of the communication mediums. The priority list may be selected from a first priority list comprising a list of communication mediums in a descending order selected to lower data charges or second priority list comprising a list of communication mediums in a descending order selected to lower download times.

In accordance with another embodiment there is provided a method on a mobile communication device for downloading data from a content source to the mobile communication device the mobile communication device being configured for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs the method comprising receiving a request to download data determining an indication of size of the requested data selecting a communication medium for downloading the requested data in accordance with whether the indication of size indicates that the requested data is large and downloading the requested data to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

Determining the indication of size of the requested data may comprise determining the size of the requested data determining if the size of the requested data is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold wherein the selection of the communication medium is in accordance with whether the size of the requested data is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold. Determining the size of the requested data may comprise requesting size information associated with the requested data from the content source. The size information may be metadata or header data.

Determining the indication of size of the requested data may comprise determining if the requested data comprises a file type which has been classified determined to be large.

Determining the indication of size of the requested data may comprise determining an application on the mobile communication device from which the download request originated and determining if the application has been classified as using large data files.

In accordance with a further embodiment there is provided a method for downloading data from a content source to the mobile communication device the mobile communication device being configured for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs the method comprising receiving a request to download an HTML HyperText Markup Language document determining whether the HTML document includes any embedded objects if the HTML document includes an embedded object determining whether the size of the embedded object is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold selecting a communication medium for downloading the embedded object in accordance with whether the size of the embedded object is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold and downloading the embedded object to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

In accordance with a further embodiment there is provided a mobile communication device comprising a processor for controlling the operation of the mobile communication device a communication subsystem connected to the processor for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs a memory coupled to the processor and having data and instructions stored thereon the data and instructions configuring the operation of the processor the processor being configured to receive a request to download data determine if the requested data comprises a media file select a communication medium for downloading the requested data in accordance with whether the requested data comprises a media file and download the requested data to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

In accordance with a further embodiment there is provided a mobile communication device comprising a processor for controlling the operation of the mobile communication device a communication subsystem connected to the processor for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs a memory coupled to the processor and having data and instructions stored thereon the data and instructions configuring the operation of the processor the processor being configured to receive a request to download data determine an indication of size of the requested data select a communication medium for downloading the requested data in accordance with whether the indication of size indicates that the requested data is large and download the requested data to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

In accordance with a further embodiment there is provided a mobile communication device comprising a processor for controlling the operation of the mobile communication device a communication subsystem connected to the processor for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs a memory coupled to the processor and having data and instructions stored thereon the data and instructions configuring the operation of the processor the processor being configured to receive a request to download an HTML HyperText Markup Language document determine whether the HTML document includes any embedded objects if the HTML document includes an embedded object determine whether the size of the embedded object is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold select a communication medium for downloading the embedded object in accordance with whether the size of the embedded object is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold and download the embedded object to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

In accordance with a further embodiment there is provided a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer program instructions for implementing a method on a mobile communication device for downloading data from a content source to the mobile communication device the mobile communication device being configured for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs the computer executable instructions comprising instructions for receiving a request to download data determining if the requested data comprises a media file selecting a communication medium for downloading the requested data in accordance with whether the requested data comprises a media file and downloading the requested data to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

In accordance with a further embodiment there is provided a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer program instructions for implementing a method on a mobile communication device for downloading data from a content source to the mobile communication device the mobile communication device being configured for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs the computer executable instructions comprising instructions for receiving a request to download data determining an indication of size of the requested data selecting a communication medium for downloading the requested data in accordance with whether the indication of size indicates that the requested data is large and downloading the requested data to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

In accordance with a further embodiment there is provided a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer program instructions for implementing a method on a mobile communication device for downloading data from a content source to the mobile communication device the mobile communication device being configured for connecting to at least cellular data networks and wireless local area networks WLANs the computer executable instructions comprising instructions for receiving a request to download an HTML HyperText Markup Language document determining whether the HTML document includes any embedded objects if the HTML document includes an embedded object determining whether the size of the embedded object is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold selecting a communication medium for downloading the embedded object in accordance with whether the size of the embedded object is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold and downloading the embedded object to the mobile communication device using the selected communication medium.

In accordance with further embodiments of the present application there is provided an apparatus such as a mobile communication and proxy server a method for adapting such apparatus articles of manufacture such as a machine or computer readable medium having program instructions recorded thereon for practising the method of the application as well as a computer data signal having program instructions recorded therein for practising the method of the application.

While the present disclosure is primarily described as a method a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present disclosure is also directed to various apparatus such as a mobile communication device proxy server and network server for carrying out at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods and including components for performing at least some of the described method steps be it by way of hardware components a computer programmed by appropriate software to enable the practice of the disclosed method by any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the disclosed method. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a communication system comprising a server and a plurality of mobile communication devices connected via a wireless communication network in which the server is configured to implement at least some of the processes described herein and in which one or more of the mobile communication devices are configured to implement at least some of the processes described herein also comes within the scope of the present disclosure.

The embodiments of the present disclosure described above are intended to be examples only. Those of skill in the art may effect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the intended scope of the present disclosure. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to create alternate embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternate embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present disclosure as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

