---

title: Four-gate transistor analog multiplier circuit
abstract: A differential output analog multiplier circuit utilizing four G-FETs, each source connected to a current source. The four G-FETs may be grouped into two pairs of two G-FETs each, where one pair has its drains connected to a load, and the other par has its drains connected to another load. The differential output voltage is taken at the two loads. In one embodiment, for each G-FET, the first and second junction gates are each connected together, where a first input voltage is applied to the front gates of each pair, and a second input voltage is applied to the first junction gates of each pair. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08010591&OS=08010591&RS=08010591
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 08010591
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070521
---
This patent application claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 60 801 875 filed 19 May 2006.

The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

The present invention relates to analog circuits and more particularly to analog multiplier circuits utilizing four gate transistors.

Analog multiplier circuits are useful building blocks in many analog applications such as signal processing. Typical analog multiplier circuits such as the so called Gilbert multiplier use on average from six to ten transistors for a differential output.

In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

Embodiments described herein use a four gate FET Field Effect Transistor as a basic building block in analog multiplier circuits. Four such four gate FETs are employed to form a differential output multiplier. Two such four gate FETs may be employed to form a single ended output multiplier. The four gate FET denoted as G FET has been described in various publications such as for example in B. J. Blalcok et al. The Multiple Gate MOS JFET Transistor Int. Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems 12 2 pp. 511 520 2002 and in K. Akarvardar et al. Depletion All Around Operation of the SOI Four Gate Transistor IEEE Trans. on Electron Devices vol. 54 no. 2 Feb. 2007 pp. 323 331. A G FET is a SOI Silicon On Insulator device.

From it is seen that a G FET may be viewed as an accumulation mode MOSFET featuring two lateral junction gates JG and JG . Alternatively it may be viewed as a lateral double gate JFET Junction FET featuring two vertical MOS Metal Oxide Semiconductor gates polysilicon front gate G and substrate emulated back gate G . The junction gates are normally reverse biased with respect to the channel and the drain current Iis comprised of majority carriers. The structure and layout of an n channel G FET may be essentially the same as that of a p channel inversion mode SOI MOSFET with two body contacts on each side of the channel. The body contacts source and drain of the inversion mode MOSFET are used in the G FET as the source drain and junction gates respectively. The four gates of the G FET may be independently biased. Depending on the biasing source and or volume conduction modes are available.

The junction gates operate as in a JFET altering the potential distribution within the body via the lateral depletion regions they induce. On a partially depleted body if the reverse bias on the junction gates is sufficiently high they can switch the G FET from a normally ON mode to a normally OFF mode. Further increases in the magnitude of the junction gate voltages modulate the threshold voltage related to the front gate G . In a normally OFF mode the saturated drain current of the G FET may be expressed as for an accumulation mode MOSFET by including the threshold voltage modulation by the junction gates 

For the case where V V V the functional dependence of Vupon Vin the fully depleted mode has been modeled in K. Akarvardar et al. Threshold Voltage Model of the SOI 4 gate Transistor IEEE Int. SOI Conf. pp. 89 90 2004 as 3 where Vand are given in the cited reference. The coupling factor has been found to be a strong function of the device width and depends weakly on the silicon film thickness. For the case V V systematic measurements suggest that

The two input voltages are denoted as Vand V. The front gates G of transistors M and M are held at bias voltage V. The difference in voltages between the front gates of transistors M and M is Vusing the algebraic sign convention implied in . Likewise the difference in voltages between the front gates of transistors M and M is V. The two junction gates JG and JG for each transistor are connected to each other. The two junction gates for transistor M and the two junction gates for transistor M are held at bias voltage V. Consequently the difference in voltages between the junction gates of transistors M and M is V and the difference in voltages between the junction gates of transistors M and M is V.

The output voltage is given by 5 where I I I and Idenote the source drain currents of transistors M M M and M respectively. Because each transistor has its two junction gate to source voltages equal to each other Eq. 3 is applicable. Using Eq. 3 and Eq. 1 to provide expressions for the source drain currents in Eq. 5 yields 4 6 indicating that the output voltage is a linear function of the product of the input voltages.

If V V Eq. 4 is used instead of Eq. 3 as for the previous embodiment to derive an expression for the output voltage. It may then be shown that . 7 From Eq. 7 it is seen that the output voltage for the embodiment of is also a linear function of the product of the input voltages but with a different multiplier gain than for the embodiment of .

The embodiments should be designed so that the drain currents of the G FETs satisfy at least approximately the expression of Eq. 1 . For example the biasing of the n channels should be such that there is 1 cut off prevention V V V V 2 drain current saturation V V V V and 3 reverse bias on the junction gates with respect to the source V 0 and V 0. The D in the subscript of a voltage denotes drain so that Vis the gate to drain voltage for the front gate G . The third condition is valid if the body of a G FET is fully depleted. If the body is partially depleted the requirement may be more strict Vand Vshould be sufficiently negative to keep the body fully depleted during operation.

The expressions below are useful for finding an input range of the input voltages such that the above three conditions may be satisfied. To that end the common source voltage for the circuit of may be expressed as

With the help of Eqs. 8A 8B 9A 9B A and B the G4 FET terminal voltages V V V and V may be expressed as a function of the input voltages. These expressions may be applied to the previously described three conditions for the drain currents of the G FETs to satisfy the expression of Eq. 1 . It has been found that in many applications for the same circuit and device parameters the embodiment of allows for a higher input range than the embodiment of . On the other hand for the same input range the circuit of provides a larger output swing as may be noticed by comparing Eqs. 6 and 7 where it is assumed that the coupling factor is in the range of 1 to 0. Consequently the circuits of allow one to tradeoff input range with output range for a given application.

Various modifications may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below. For example single ended circuits may be employed where there is only one pair of four gate transistors instead of two pairs. For example some embodiments may employ the pair of transistors M and M and its load but not the pair of transistors M and M and its load. In that case the single ended voltage output is taken at the load of transistors M and M. In other embodiments dual circuits may be provided where p channel G FETs are used instead of n channel transistors.

In some embodiments the input voltages may be derived in ways other than suggested in . For example referring to in general a differential voltage may be provided to the front gates of transistors M and M so that a voltage Vis applied to the front gate of transistor M and a voltage Vis applied to the front gate of transistor M where these voltages have some common mode voltage V. In the noiseless case one may express these voltages as V V v 2 and V V v 2 where v is a small signal voltage. Similar remarks apply to the differential voltages provided to the front gates of transistor pair M and M and to the junction gates of transistor pair M and M and transistor pair M and M.

It is to be understood in these letters patent that the meaning of A is connected to B where A or B may be for example a node or device terminal is that A and B are connected to each other so that the voltage potentials of A and B are substantially equal to each other. For example A and B may be connected together by an interconnect transmission line . In integrated circuit technology the interconnect may be exceedingly short comparable to the device dimension itself. For example the gates of two transistors may be connected together by polysilicon or copper interconnect where the length of the polysilicon or copper interconnect is comparable to the gate lengths. As another example A and B may be connected to each other by a switch such as a transmission gate so that their respective voltage potentials are substantially equal to each other when the switch is ON.

It is also to be understood in these letters patent that the meaning of A is coupled to B is that either A and B are connected to each other as described above or that although A and B may not be connected to each other as described above there is nevertheless a device or circuit that is connected to both A and B. This device or circuit may include active or passive circuit elements where the passive circuit elements may be distributed or lumped parameter in nature. For example A may be connected to a circuit element that in turn is connected to B.

It is also to be understood in these letters patent that a current source may mean either a current source or a current sink. Similar remarks apply to similar phrases such as to source current .

It is also to be understood in these letters patent that various circuit components and blocks such as current mirrors amplifiers etc. may include switches so as to be switched in or out of a larger circuit and yet such circuit components and blocks may still be considered connected to the larger circuit.

