---

title: Device and method for neutralizing chemical agents
abstract: The Chemical-agent Access and Neutralization System (CANS) of the present invention is a small, portable, single-use, disposable chemical treatment apparatus that is used to access and treat Chemical Agent Identification Set (CAIS) ampoules, bottles and/or containers that contain vesicant agents, or chemical warfare agents such as mustard or Lewisite. The apparatus and method of use of the present invention provides a resultant treatment residue that remains totally contained in the CANS treatment container and is safe for disposal. The CANS treatment container can be over packed into a Department of Transportation (DOT) certified shipping container, and shipped to permitted hazardous waste management facilities for ultimate disposal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07722836&OS=07722836&RS=07722836
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07722836
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070824
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 10 617 275 filed Jul. 10 2003 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 264 783.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention is directed to containment neutralization and disposal of chemical contaminants present in Chemical Agent Identification Sets CATS . The system of the present invention allows for rapid monitoring and treatment of CAIS without the need for large scale neutralization apparatus.

Over 160 000 chemical agent identification sets CAIS were produced between 1928 and 1969. These sets were used to train soldiers to identify chemical warfare agents in the field. Current law allows CAIS to be held without treatment at specific sites in the United States. However state policies and public concern often preclude such storage.

A rapid response system RRS has been developed and used to receive contain characterize monitor and treat recovered CAIS from burial sites. The purpose of the RRS was to provide safe and effective containment and disposal of the CAIS. The RRS included two trailers and a mobile analytical support platform MASP for analyzing the waste and treatment residues on the CAIS sites. The MASP also provided air quality management monitoring devices alarms impingers and protocol for recording contaminants in the air. Additional trailers have been used for support equipment and administrative offices. Once treated with the appropriate decontaminants remaining neutralized materials are transported to a commercial waste treatment facility for ultimate disposal.

While the RRS system is beneficial for large CAIS recovery sites it has been cost prohibitive for smaller CAIS quantity sites. In addition there is also a need to address emergency situations where quick reduction of agent contamination hazard is imminently necessary to protect the public. Therefore there is a need to rapidly reduce chemical warfare agent hazard associated with CAIS at smaller recovery sites and in emergency situations that is provided for by the present invention as described below.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a Chemical agent Access and Neutralization System CANS container that is capable of rapidly accessing and neutralizing chemical contaminants without harming the environment.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a Chemical agent Access and Neutralization System that is economical and provides an efficient manner of neutralizing chemical contaminants.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a unique break system that allows chemical contaminants and neutralizing agents stored within a closed container to be intermixed without harm to the environment.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a container having a flanged lid that is hermetically sealed when in use and capable of easy removal for placement removal of contaminants and reagents within the container.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a torque mechanism for fastening the flanged lid to the body of the container to facilitate a proper seal between the container and the environment.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a container that allows admixing of the chemicals by placement of the container in different positions.

It is yet another objective of the present invention to monitor reaction conditions within the container without contaminant leakage to the environment.

As shown in the Chemical agent Access and Neutralization System CANS of the present invention includes a container that provides containment for neutralization treatments of chemical contaminants. Container is preferably constructed of inert plastics however other materials suitable for containment and neutralization of contaminants are also within the scope of the present invention. Kynar is a preferred thermoplastic material for container because it is also translucent allowing visual confirmation when internal reagents are released. A preferred method of making container is via injection molding. shows the container in an open position. In a preferred embodiment container has a flanged lid portion and a body portion . The flanged lid portion is configured with a plurality of apertures positioned circumferentially around the outer edge of flanged lid portion . Lid portion also includes a handle to allow container to be moved as will be discussed below. Lid portion also includes at least one sample valve through which a sample probe can be inserted so that reaction conditions within container can be measured and or monitored. Exemplary sample probes include pressure transducers. Sample valve maintains an air tight contaminant impermeable seal both in its closed position and when a sample probe is inserted into container through sample valve . The body portion includes a plurality of apertures positioned circumferentially around the outer edge of a flange section . The plurality of apertures align with apertures when lid portion is placed upon body portion . In a preferred embodiment this arrangement of apertures is threaded to permit flanged lid to be hermetically sealed against body portion using bolts. The flanged section of body portion also includes a groove fitted with an o ring . The o ring further provides for an air tight contaminant impermeable seal when container is closed. Of course the use of threaded bolts with corresponding apertures and is only one preferred method of sealing the lid to the body . Other methods of sealing containers are well known to those of skill in the art and it is not intended to limit the invention to the preferred embodiment described here. For example clamps similar to those used to seal drums or a Grayloc seal design with clamp can be used to provide an even pressure around the circumference of the lid in lieu of bolts. Alternative sealing materials such as Teflon and metal gaskets have also been found suitable. Moreover alternative designs to a flat lid can also be used for example dome shaped lids can be used to optimize strength. The body portion includes upper and lower rims and which are configured to perform as stabilizing legs as will be discussed below.

As shown in body portion forms an interior chamber that houses a holder . The holder is also preferably made of inert plastics. Holder includes first and second cradles and . Holder also includes openings to allow easy removal of holder from body portion . Cradle holds a chemical agent containing CAIS container while cradle securely holds a chemical reagent container which contains reagents useful for treating and or neutralizing chemical agents contained in the CAIS . CAIS container can be in the shape of bottles or ampoules. Reagent container holds a quantity of treatment reagent sufficient to neutralize the identified CAIS agents in container .

As shown in if container is in the shape of an ampoule a third securing cradle is utilized to hold the ampoule in place.

Alternative cradle designs were evaluated which allowed three to five ampoules to be treated at the same time. The current standard quantity of reagent was found sufficient to treat this larger quantity of ampoules.

In a closed position as shown in a plurality of bolts B are positioned through apertures and not shown to secure lid portion to body portion and provide an air tight contaminant impermeable seal between the container and the environment.

The exterior surface of body portion as shown in includes an opening that is connected to a break system BS. The break system BS includes a screw bolt having a top section a screw portion and a notched section connected to flexible seal . The break system BS also includes a closing mechanism that is connected to the screw bolt . The closing mechanism includes a cap that is connected to the closing mechanism through a chain . The cap is internally threaded so as to mate with screw bolt and engage flexible seal . Attaching cap to the closing mechanism allows for cap to be quickly fitted over screw bolt . Additionally the break system BS includes a solid metal break rod having a flat top end and a pointed bottom end . The break rod is configured so that bottom end is inserted into the container through opening when notched section is pierced. Once break rod is inserted through the screw bolt the closing mechanism forms an air tight contaminant impermeable seal between the container and the environment. Also as shown in the body portion houses at least one sample valve . A sample probe not shown is inserted into sample valve so that reaction conditions inside container can be monitored. The sample valve is configured to form an air tight contaminant impermeable seal in its closed position and also when sample probes are inserted. Exemplary sample probes include thermocouples.

In use bolts B are removed and the flanged lid portion is lifted making sure that o ring is not dislodged from groove . The lid portion is removed using handle portion . Thereafter break rod is placed so that it is fully extended out of container . To facilitate this position break rod is grasped and pulled from the chamber . Using openings holder is removed so that the CAIS container and the reagent container can be positioned in chamber of container . Holder is then inserted into chamber so that the CAIS container is held within first cradle and the reagent container is held within second cradle for ampoules the third cradle is also utilized . Thereafter lid portion is repositioned over bottom portion making sure that o ring is correctly positioned in groove . Bolts B are fastened to provide proper torque to seal lid portion to body portion over container . Emphasis is placed upon proper torque to maintain and airtight seal and optimum reaction conditions during the neutralization process. shows an exemplary fastening pattern for an 8 bolt system where the bolts Bthrough Bare sequentially torqued beginning with bolt Band ending with bolt B.

Thereafter container is moved using handle from a vertical position as shown in to a horizontal position as shown in where upper and lower rims and become stabilizing legs. Sample probes are attached at valves and so that reaction conditions can be monitored. The break rod is then driven down into the container such that bottom portion pierces through CAIS container and reagent container held within holder . Thereafter cap is fastened to prevent contaminants or reaction fluids from escaping the container . Container is then again shifted to the vertical position as shown in to allow the chemicals from containers and to mix for a desired reaction time. Once reaction is complete container can be placed within a Department of Transportation DOT certified shipping container and shipped to permitted hazardous waste management facilities for ultimate disposal. The unit is designed to be disposable and as a safety feature is specifically designed to weaken and leak before it explodes in an incinerator.

A variety of treatment agents can be used depending upon the chemical agent stored in container . Table 1 below provides a preferred list of chemical reagents that are useful. It is understood that the listed neutralizing reagents are exemplary and any reagents capable of working within the confines of the CANS system are also within the scope of this invention.

The following is a list of alternative treatment reagents found to be useful in the present CANS system 

Table 2 provides concentration data for neutralizing mustard and Lewisite chemical warfare agents using the reagent 1 3 Dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantoin DCDMH .

Of course concentrations of reagents can be modified significantly and remain effective for neutralizing the toxic chemical agents.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to preferred embodiments it will be readily appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is intended that the claims be interpreted to cover the disclosed embodiments those alternatives which have been discussed above and all equivalents thereto.

