---

title: MEMS DC to DC switching converter
abstract: The present invention provides a DC high voltage converter having an oscillator driver, main switch array and topological enhanced capacitors. The switch array utilizes MEM cantilevers and topological capacitors for charge storages for the generation of a high voltage output from a low voltage input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08088638&OS=08088638&RS=08088638
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08088638
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070316
---
This application claims priority to currently pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 767 303 entitled MEMS DC to DC Switching Converter filed Mar. 16 2006 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Nos. DASG60 00 C 0089 awarded by the SMDC. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the field of micro mechanical switching converters using micro mechanical transducers. Micro mechanical switching circuits provide many applications such as voltage converters switching regulators phase matching etc. Mechanical and electronic switching circuits are widely used and micro mechanical switching circuits can additionally be complimented with traditional switching devices.

MEMS switching converters are known in the art. The many benefits of a MEMS implementation for switching converters include no voltage loss due to p n junction low ohm losses radiation resistance ability to convert voltage up and down prolonged operation using hermetic seal with He gas prolonged operation using Ir contacts ability to charge all capacitors simultaneously or based on charge transfer only simple vibrations necessary to drive the circuits need for two power supplies for some converters. In the art large surface area low tolerance valued capacitors such as topological capacitors are integrated to realize these MEMS switching converters.

A prior art switching circuit configuration is illustrated with reference to . illustrates a parallel series converter as is known in the art. In this embodiment the input and the output voltages are 1.5V and 12V respectively. illustrates a charge transfer converter as is known in the art which also has an input voltage of 1.5V and an output voltage of 12V. With reference to in these embodiments the required capacitor value for the charge transfer converter operating frequency 1 kHz at 10 ripple will be 1.5 nF to realize 12V from a 1.5V supply. In these prior art embodiments solid state switches are employed such as transistors or diodes.

Accordingly what is needed in the art is an efficient DC to DC high voltage converter that requires only simple vibrations to drive the circuits.

A DC to DC high voltage converter in accordance with the present invention has three parts an oscillator driver main switch array or voltage multiplier and an array of topological capacitors.

A microelectromechanical MEMS DC high voltage converter in accordance with the present invention includes an oscillator driver that provides an actuating vibration and a voltage multiplier further comprising a plurality of MEMS switches each of the plurality of MEMS switches activated by the vibration of the oscillator driver and a plurality of charge storage capacitors coupled to the plurality of MEMS switches to provide a high voltage output from an input voltage received at the oscillator driver.

In a particular embodiment the oscillator driver of the present invention includes at least one MEMS cantilever having a charging contact and a discharging contact the charging contact and the discharging contact are coupled to an input voltage source supplying the input voltage.

In a specific embodiment the MEMS cantilevers are fabricated using a metal cantilever beam supported by a dielectric cantilever beam. The dielectric cantilever beam is first positioned on a platinum pad formed on a silicon substrate.

The oscillator driver in accordance with the present invention may also actuate the main switch utilizing a resistor coupled in series between the cantilever and the input voltage source to generate the actuating vibration or a MEMS symmetric torsion device to generate the actuating vibration.

The main switch or voltage multiplier of the present invention further includes a plurality of MEMS cantilever switches coupled to receive the actuating vibration from the oscillator driver and a plurality of topological capacitors to store the charge generated by the switching motion of the cantilevers.

The converter in accordance with the present invention will be used as a high voltage supply from an environmentally available low voltage source. The device performs similarly to a wall transformer but supplies high voltage DC using a low voltage DC source without any transistors or diodes just mechanical switches only. Accordingly the device can be used as a remote sensing power supply without any p n junction or magnetic elements required. The conversion efficiency is very high. The device can be employed whenever electrical power is required and the device will supply electricity from an environmental cell at low voltage.

A DC to DC high voltage converter in accordance with the present invention consists of three fundamental elements including an oscillator driver a main switch array and an array of capacitors. The capacitors are used for charge storages for high voltage generation.

With reference to a high voltage converter circuit as is known in the art is illustrated wherein the switches and of the main switch array operate as a Cockcroft Walton circuit. A Cockcroft Walton CW circuit is basically a voltage multiplier that converts AC or pulsing DC electrical power from a low voltage level to a higher DC voltage level. A Cockcroft Walton circuit known in the art is comprised of a voltage multiplier ladder network of capacitors and diodes. Using only these capacitors and diodes a Cockcroft Walton circuit can step up relatively low voltages to extremely high values while eliminating the need for heavy core transformers. In this embodiment the main switch consists of 5 circuits 2 poles. In such a circuit the voltage across each stage of the cascade is equal to twice the peak input voltage or as such the circuit requires relatively low cost components and is easy to insulate. illustrates a similar circuit to that of wherein an additional switch is provided to allow the use of a single source input voltage .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a DC to DC high voltage converter circuit is implemented by replacing the diodes of the Cockcroft Walton circuit with MEMS switches. Topological capacitors are then integrated for charge storages for high voltage generation.

With reference to an embodiment of the DC to DC transformer in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. The transformer includes a self oscillation driver having a large area of platinum Pt coating the large conductor thereby forming a capacitive element. The MEMS cantilever switch is then positioned on top of the Pt coating . To balance the motion of the microelectromechanical circuit two oscillation drivers on each side are activated. In a particular embodiment the drivers are located at both sides of the main switch array. Utilizing two drivers provides stable switching motion of the cantilevers .

To more clearly illustrate the oscillator driver of the present invention a cross section Y Y of the oscillator driver circuit is shown with reference to . As shown in a metal cantilever is supported by a dielectric cantilever . The cantilever is normally on with the upper metal contact . A normally on contact supplies 1.5V from a 1.5V supply via a demand activated switch .

When the demand activated switch is turned on the upper metal contact charges the cantilever electrode through the power source . The charged cantilever electrode is then is attracted by the bottom electrode on the substrate until the cantilever touches the bottom electrode . When the cantilever contacts the bottom electrode the charge on the cantilever is discharged and the cantilever springs back and contacts the upper electrode and begins recharging though the power source . This motion of the cantilever repeats continuously and activates the main switches of the circuit until the activate switch is turned off. When the activate switch is turned off the circuit consumes no power. The oscillator driver is integrated with the main switches of the transformer and the topological capacitors to generate a high voltage from the 1.5V supply .

In an additional embodiment of the oscillator driver the charging contact and the discharging contact can be replaced by a series resistor as shown with reference to . In this embodiment the series resistor is used to slowly charge the voltage on cantilever until the pull in voltage is achieved and the cantilever snaps down and contacts the bottom electrode making an electrical connection. Upon reaching this closed position the cantilever charges from the supply and the voltage on the cantilever is reduced to the voltage at the bottom electrode at which point the electrostatic forces become zero and the cantilever rebounds away from the switched on position. The series resistor continues to re charge the cantilever voltage toward pull in and the process continues indefinitely or until the demand activated switch is turned off.

In yet another embodiment of the oscillator driver in accordance with the present invention a self oscillating electromechanical configuration can be envisioned wherein a symmetric torsion device is used in place of a cantilever as shown in . In this embodiment a ground potential is connected to the torsion device having a first end and second end and two pull in pads are connected to the power source through independent series resistors and a demand activated switch . Upon closure of the demand activated switch the torsion second end of the torsion device pulls toward the pull in pad eventually making an electrical connection. Upon making an electrical connection the contacted pull in pad is discharged reducing the electrostatic forces on that half of the torsion device to zero. Since the alternate pull in pad is charged to a higher voltage potential the first end torsion device then tilts toward and eventually connects to that pad at which point the pad is discharged. Choosing appropriate values of the resistors and the device capacitance and mechanical resonance the oscillator driver utilizing a symmetric torsion device can continue to oscillate between the two switching sides of the torsion device indefinitely or until the demand activated switch is turned off. The torsion layout may be advantageous in that switching contacts are on all the same surface which may simplify physical realization of the switch.

The DC to DC transformer in accordance with the present invention includes a voltage multiplier which comprises a plurality of MEMS switches. Each of the plurality of MEMS switches are activated by the vibration of the oscillator driver and a plurality of charge storage capacitors are coupled to the plurality of MEMS switches to provide a high voltage output from an input voltage received at the oscillator driver.

With reference again to in a particular embodiment of the present invention the voltage multiplier operates in similar fashion to a Cockcroft Walton circuit. In this embodiment a plurality of MEMS cantilevers are integrated with the plurality of topological capacitors which are used for charge storages for high voltage generation.

In the embodiment illustrated in the main switch or voltage multiplier of the present invention consists of 5 circuits 2 poles. In the cross sectional view of cantilever of the main switch Y Y shown in the moving metal cantilever is supported by a more solid dielectric cantilever . This structure ensures that all five contacts of the five cantilevers will be on or off consistently.

The voltage multiplier main switch consists of two low voltage sources and 5 circuit 2 pole cantilever switches . Each cantilever switch has one extended Pt moving finger terminal between the normally on upper contact and the normally off bottom contact . The switches are connected as shown in the charge transfer converter in . In an additional embodiment the circuit configuration may be modified to have 6 circuits 2 poles switches and one low voltage source as shown in . The oscillator driver previously described generates vibration for activating the main switches of the voltage multiplier using an electrostatic force rather than magnetic force. Each switching motion of the main switches causes the charge of each capacitor to be transferred to the right side of the capacitors . The charge transfers left to right through each of capacitors thereby reaching a full voltage of 3V within a few cycles. Thus the output terminal voltage reaches 12V. The array of main switches transfer charges and generates a high voltage output.

In an additional embodiment a charge transfer converter in accordance with the present invention having a plurality of cascading stages is illustrated with reference to . In it can be seen that a higher voltage level or can be attained by cascading a 1stage main switch and a 2nd main switch .

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

