---

title: Programmable SAW filter module
abstract: Programmable SAW filter module are provided to overcome undesirable drawbacks, limitations and shortcomings associated with “in-line” SAW filters, such as insertion loss, propagation loss and strong signal capture effects. The programmable SAW filter modules remove the SAW structure from the primary signal path, adding signal gain to drive the splitter and using the SAW portion of the circuit as a programmable impedance element. The programmable SAW filter module includes an amplifier, an impedance, a surface acoustic wave propagation element, a splitter, input and output IDT electrodes, input and output interdigitated transducers, means for gain control and a combiner to combine or sum the signals received from the output IDT electrodes and form an output signal. The input and output IDT's are fully integrated circuits comprising the power splitter and power combiner functions, the phase shift, and gain functions. The embodiments include an amplifier and impedance preceding the input splitter, the amplifier preceding the input splitter with the impedance connected to the combiner, and placing programmable SAW devices in both branches of the circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07750752&OS=07750752&RS=07750752
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07750752
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070613
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without payment to me of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates generally to the field of electronic filters and more particularly to an improved programmable SAW filter module.

The Surface Acoustic Wave SAW is used as the basis for a variety of electronic devices including delay lines filters and correlators which are key components in numerous electronic applications. Radio frequency RF SAW filters have a number of desirable characteristics with respect to their size and cost along with their electronic properties such as insertion loss bandwidth transfer function etc. Numerous advances in this field have led to greatly improved SAW device reliability and performance and RF SAW filters have found widespread application in modern mobile communications equipment such as cellular telephones. However each new development in mobile communications has required a new filter design matched to the new frequencies and spectral characteristics of the transmitted waveforms. As an alternative to regular re design and development of new hardware it is desirable to have a tunable RF SAW filter capable of providing a variety of specified electrical characteristics such as low insertion loss tunable bandwidth tunable frequency and tunable filter transfer function.

Prior developments in the field of programmable transversal filters based on SAW devices and closely related fields that provide useful guidance on these choices are reviewed in Design of a Selectable Performance Front End Filter Using Acoustic Surface Wave Resonators by R. Pastore J. A. Kosinski W. N. Porter and H. L. Cui in Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE International Frequency Control Symposium May 1997 pp. 858 866. Transversal filters utilizing a SAW device and programmable transversal filters have found many different applications. Examples of transversal filters include Zimmerman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 752 750 Hybrid Programmable Transversal Filter issued on Jun. 21 1988 Birkett et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 051 709 SAW Device Tapped Delay Line and Equalizer issued on Sep. 24 1991 Smythe Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 194 837 Multi Tap Programming Circuit for Transversal Filters issued on Mar. 16 1993 and Zimmerman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 887 Miniature Digitally Controlled Programmable Transverse Filter Using LSI GAAS Integrated Circuits issued on Feb. 7 1995. These patents disclose programmable transversal filters that obtain some of the desired electronic characteristics but still suffer from a number of deficiencies such as triple transient echo conversion loss and an insertion loss penalty associated with both imperfect energy conversion and propagation loss.

The improved filters disclosed in Kosinski et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 459 345 Programmable SAW Filter Including Unidirectional Transducers which disclosed incorporating a finger array phase shifters and gain devices to eliminate bi directional energy loss and Kosinski et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 132 908 Selectable Performance Interference Filter which disclosed the use of asynchronous IDT finger arrays have reduced and minimized the deleterious effects of triple transit echo and the insertion loss penalty to a great degree while enabling a greater flexibility than previously possible. However the complete elimination of the negative effects of the insertion loss penalty is not possible with any of the prior art arrangements. The energy conversion losses at the SAW input and output IDT arrays and the SAW propagation loss all contribute to undesirable device insertion loss. While the use of unidirectional transducers as in Kosinski et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 459 345 helps to minimize the conversion loss the propagation loss is inherent in the device and cannot be eliminated. The propagation loss can be compensated to some level through additional gain in the tap weighting circuitry however the gain cannot be increased arbitrarily while maintaining a desired weighting function and hence the overall filter will still suffer from a certain amount of loss and an attendant noise figure.

In addition to some residual insertion loss the improved filters disclosed in Kosinski et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 459 345 and No. 7 132 908 also encumber the unforeseen difficulty of strong signal capture. While the incorporation of a tunable input IDT provides clear advantage in enabling greater flexibility with respect to the filter transfer function the tunable input IDT necessarily places gain elements ahead of the filter transfer function where they are susceptible to being saturated by strong signals outside of the intended filter bandwidth. Such is not a significant drawback in intermediate filter IF applications where out of band signal levels are somewhat limited. However in pre selector applications where one expects large interference signals the prior art programmable SAW filters of U.S. Pat. No. 6 459 345 and No. 7 132 908 are susceptible to deleterious signal capture effects that pre selector filters are otherwise meant to overcome and obviate.

The common flaw with prior art programmable SAW filters especially with respect to pre selector applications is that they are inherently in line devices requiring the RF signal to pass through all of the RF filter component parts with the exception of the control circuitry. The in line configuration inherently places broadband gain elements ahead of any SAW based filter transfer function and thus is inherently and unavoidably subject to strong signal capture effects. Thus there has been a long felt need for programmable SAW filters and filter components which are not in line devices and do not suffer from the undesirable drawbacks limitations and shortcomings associated with insertion loss propagation loss and strong signal capture effects.

The present invention fulfills the long felt need for programmable SAW filters that do not suffer from the drawbacks limitations and shortcomings associated with in line SAW filters including insertion loss propagation loss and strong signal capture effects with a programmable SAW Filter Module comprising an amplifier an impedance a surface acoustic wave propagation element interdigitated transducer finger arrays a splitter a combiner and a means for gain control.

It is a further object of this invention to provide an improved programmable SAW filter module that does not suffer from the undesirable drawbacks limitations and shortcomings associated with insertion loss and propagation loss.

It is still a further object of this invention to provide an improved programmable SAW filter module that overcomes the prior art s undesirable drawbacks limitations and shortcomings associated with in line SAW filters including insertion loss propagation loss and strong signal capture effects.

These and other objects are advantageously accomplished with the present invention providing a programmable SAW filter module comprising an amplifier an impedance a surface acoustic wave propagation element a splitter input and output IDT electrodes preferably configured with phase shifters and operated as unidirectional transducers means for gain control and a combiner to combine or sum the signals received from the output IDT electrodes to form an output signal. The input and output IDT s are fully integrated circuits comprising the power splitter and power combiner functions the phase shift and gain functions. The present invention provides a number of features to overcome the prior art s undesirable drawbacks limitations and shortcomings associated with in line SAW filters including insertion loss propagation loss and strong signal capture effects by removing the SAW structure from the primary signal path adding signal gain to drive the splitter and using the SAW portion of the circuit as a programmable impedance element.

The present invention encompasses embodiments with an amplifier and impedance preceding the input splitter the amplifier preceding the input splitter with the impedance connected to the combiner and placing programmable SAW devices in both branches of the circuit. The rationale behind the present invention its principles of operation and its basic design criteria are presented fully in the following description of the invention.

Referring now to the drawings is a conceptual diagram of the first embodiment of the programmable SAW filter module . The input to the module is made at terminals and . An input signal applied to terminal is received by the non inverting input of operational amplifier . The output of operational amplifier is provided in parallel to the output terminals and of the module and feedback impedance . The majority of the output signal from operational amplifier is delivered to the output terminals and while a small portion of the signal is passed through feedback impedance . The signal passing through feedback impedance is then applied in parallel to the inverting input of operational amplifier and to a series of components providing for a programmable SAW transversal filter functioning as a programmable SAW impedance element. The programmable SAW impedance element includes an input splitter that splits the input signal for an input phase shifter that independently varies the phase of a number of the split input signals and provides a set of phase shifted input signals to an input gain control . The input gain control provides a variable gain to each split input signal applied to each of the input IDT electrode fingers formed on the surface of a piezoelectric substrate .

The piezoelectric substrate hosts the input IDT electrode fingers and provide an input unidirectional transducer and a group of output IDT electrode fingers similarly provide an output unidirectional transducer . The input IDT electrode fingers each have a uniform spacing and width. SAW is generated by the input unidirectional transducer and detected by the output unidirectional transducer . Because the input phase shifter properly selects the signal phase for the split input signals the input transducer electrode fingers function as a unidirectional interdigitated transducer IDT .

The output IDT electrode fingers have a uniform spacing and width which differs from that of the input IDT electrode fingers such that mechanical triple transit echo is avoided. The output of the output unidirectional transducer is provided to a variable output gain control which is variable with a different output gain or weighting coefficient being applied to each output IDT finger in the output unidirectional transducer . An output phase shifter is coupled to the variable output gain control and provides a variable phase shift for some of the IDT output signals . Proper selection of the signal phase applied to the IDT output signals results in the output interdigitated transducer electrode fingers functioning as a unidirectional interdigitated transducer. The output phase shifter provides a variable phase shift for a selected group of IDT output signals and provides a phase shifted group of IDT output signals to a combiner . The combiner combines or sums the individual electrode finger output signals to form a single composite output signal . A phase control circuit and gain control circuit both represented by Box are coupled to the input phase shifter the input gain control the output gain control and the output phase shifter to selectively monitor control or program the variable phase and the variable gain of the individual input and output signals. The composite output signal from combiner is then delivered to ground .

In operation the filter transfer function from input terminals and to output terminals and is given by the expression 

The present invention advantageously includes a number of key features that are unavailable in prior art devices and systems. Foremost among these key improvements is the fact that the programmable SAW structure has now been removed from the primary signal path. The advantage gained by removal of the programmable SAW structure from the primary signal path is the elimination of any insertion loss issues associated with the SAW structure. A second advantage is that the amplifier provides a useful signal gain to drive the splitter . Another important innovation is that the SAW portion of the circuit is employed as a programmable impedance element as compared to the programmable filter directly.

Referring now to there is a diagram of the second embodiment of the programmable SAW filter module where the amplifier precedes the input splitter and the impedance is connected to the combiner. Like the first embodiment the programmable SAW filter module also comprises an amplifier a splitter a piezoelectric substrate a means for program control and a combiner but in this embodiment the programmable SAW arm and the impedance are exchanged. An input signal is applied to input terminals and and thus to the non inverting input of operational amplifier . The output from operational amplifier is provided in parallel to the module output terminals and and the input splitter of the programmable SAW arm. The input splitter splits the input signal for an input phase shifter that independently varies the phase of a number of the split input signals and provides a phase shifted input signal to an input gain control . The input gain control provides a variable gain to each split input signal applied to each of the input IDT electrode fingers on the surface of a piezoelectric substrate .

Piezoelectric substrate hosts input IDT electrode fingers each having uniform spacing and width that provide an input unidirectional transducer and output IDT electrode fingers that provide an output unidirectional transducer . SAW is generated by the input unidirectional transducer and detected by the output unidirectional transducer . The input phase shifter properly adjusts the phases of the split input signals such that the input IDT electrode fingers function as a unidirectional interdigitated transducer.

The output IDT electrode fingers have a uniform spacing and width which differs from that of the input IDT electrode fingers such that mechanical triple transit echo is avoided. The output of the output unidirectional transducer is provided to a variable output gain control which is variable with a different output gain or weighting coefficient being applied to each output IDT finger in the output unidirectional transducer . An output phase shifter is coupled to the output gain control and provides a variable phase shift for some of the IDT output signals . Proper selection of the signal phase applied to the IDT output signals results in the output interdigitated transducer electrode fingers functioning as a unidirectional interdigitated transducer. The output phase shifter provides a variable phase shift for a selected group of IDT output signals and provides a phase shifted group of IDT output signals to combiner . The combiner combines or sums the individual electrode finger output signals to form a single composite output signal . The composite output of the programmable SAW leg is applied in parallel to an impedance and to the inverting input of operational amplifier . Impedance is also connected to ground . A phase control circuit and gain control circuit both represented by Box are coupled to the input phase shifter the input gain control the output gain control and the output phase shifter to selectively monitor control or program the variable phase and the variable gain of the individual input and output signals.

In this embodiment of the programmable SAW filter module the programmable SAW arm providing for a programmable SAW impedance element and the feedback impedance are exchanged as compared to the first embodiment s programmable SAW filter module . In so doing the transfer function for this embodiment is now 

In the third embodiment of the present invention programmable SAW devices are used as programmable impedances Z and Z in both circuit branches with the input to output transfer function of the overall module given by the following expression 

Referring now to there is depicted a conceptual diagram of another embodiment of the programmable SAW filter module comprising a pair of the programmable SAW arms configured into a Z branch and a Z branch. An input signal is applied to input terminals and and thus to the non inverting input of operational amplifier . The output of operational amplifier is fed in parallel to the output terminals and and to the programmable SAW arm Z . The majority of the signal is provided to the module output terminals and while a small portion is provided as a feedback signal to the programmable SAW arm Z which functions to provide a programmable impedance Z . The programmable SAW arm Z is similar in form and function to those in the previously described embodiments. The small feedback signal is applied to the first component of the programmable SAW arm Z comprising an input splitter to split the feedback signal for an input phase shifter that independently varies the phase of a number of the split feedback signals and provides a set of phase shifted input signals to an input gain control . The input gain control provides a variable gain to each split input signal applied to each of the input IDT electrode fingers formed on the surface of a piezoelectric substrate . Piezoelectric substrate hosts input IDT electrode fingers each having uniform spacing and width and operated in such a fashion as to provide an input unidirectional transducer and output IDT electrode fingers also having uniform spacing and width and operated in such a fashion as to provide an output unidirectional transducer . The width and spacing of the input IDT electrode fingers differs sufficiently from that of the output IDT electrode fingers as to eliminate mechanical triple transit echo. SAW is generated by the input unidirectional transducer and detected by the output unidirectional transducer . The input phase shifter properly selects the signal phases for the split feedback signals such that the input IDT electrode fingers function as a unidirectional interdigitated transducer .

The output signals generated by output IDT electrode fingers of the output unidirectional transducer are provided to a variable output gain control which is variable with a different output gain or weighting coefficient being applied to each output signal . An output phase shifter is coupled to the output gain control and provides a variable phase shift for some of the IDT output signals . Proper selection of the signal phase applied to these signals results in the output IDT electrode fingers functioning as a unidirectional interdigitated transducer . The output phase shifter provides the set of output signals to a combiner which forms a composite output feedback signal as the sum of the individual output signals . A phase control circuit and gain control circuit both represented by Box are coupled to the input phase shifter the input gain control the output gain control and the output phase shifter to selectively monitor control or program the variable phase and the variable gain of the individual input and output signals.

The composite output feedback signal is fed in parallel to the inverting input of operational amplifier and to the input of the second programmable SAW arm that functions to provide a programmable impedance Z . The topology and functioning of the Z branch is similar to that of the Z branch with Z comprising input and output splitters and respectively input and output phase shifters and respectively input and output gain control and respectively input and output IDT electrode fingers and respectively operated as input and output unidirectional IDTs and respectively SAW propagating on substrate and phase control circuit and gain control circuit both represented by Box . The output of the programmable SAW branch providing for programmable impedance Z is connected to ground .

The several possible embodiments of the present invention all place the operational amplifier in a non inverting configuration ahead of the programmable SAW impedance elements as a means of removing any broadband gain elements from the signal path. The circuit configuration shapes the gain profile or transfer function of the operational amplifier in such a fashion as to reflect the impedance profiles of the programmable SAW devices according to mathematical expressions 1 6 or 7 as appropriate. The circuit topology of this improved programmable SAW filter module yields immunity to signal capture elimination of excess SAW contributions to the noise figure and overall pre amplifier gain sufficient to establish the overall system noise figure. Related topologies placing the operational amplifier in an inverting configuration fail to resolve these issues and thus are not used in this invention.

A number of variations are within the contemplation of the present invention. The programmable transversal filter used to provide a programmable impedance element in the present invention provides unidirectional transducers which may be implemented as a multi phase unidirectional transducer. A less efficient implementation is possible wherein the IDT electrode fingers are operated as bidirectional IDTs with an additional loss through the programmable SAW arms of 3 dB per transducer. The programmable transversal filter used in the present invention may incorporate power splitters or power combiners phase shifters or time delays gain blocks and an acoustic finger array. The components may be arranged in multiple configurations with respect to the order of gain and phase adjustments. Input and output electronics may be suitably connected to the acoustic portion. Preferably the input and output electronics are fully integrated circuits comprising the power splitter and power combiner functions the phase shift and gain functions. The phase shift and gain functions are variable. A variety of different control circuits may be utilized for providing program control or varying the phase shift and gain functions. There may be a variety of alternative embodiments to implement the present invention. For example different circuit embodiments may include use of real time delays. A combination of individual phase delays may be used with a switched array gain selection. Additionally a combination of individual gain selections may be used with a switched array of phase shifters. The present invention may be composed of discrete components a semiconductor and piezoelectric hybrid or a fully integrated piezoelectric semiconductor integrated circuit.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description of the programmable SAW filter module device and apparatus are considered to be within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components geometrical arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

