---

title: Methods relating to hypoglycemic unawareness
abstract: Provided are methods of administering glucagon so as to reduce the risk of hypoglycemic unawareness. Also provided are methods of returning hypoglycemic awareness to a subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07683027&OS=07683027&RS=07683027
owner: DiObex, Inc.
number: 07683027
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071029
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 169 825 filed Jun. 28 2005 which is a continuation in part of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 10 540 803 issued Jan. 1 2008 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 314 859 entitled Compositions and Methods for the Prevention and Control of Insulin Induced Hypoglycemia which is the U.S. National Phase entry of PCT patent application PCT US2003 041103 filed Dec. 23 2003 and which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Nos. 60 436 735 filed Dec. 27 2002 60 454 972 filed Mar. 14 2003 and 60 470 346 filed May 13 2003 . U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 169 825 further claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application 60 584 449 filed Jun. 29 2004 . The entirety of each of the applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to the fields of biology pharmacology and medicine. In particular the invention relates to compositions and methods of using compositions for the control of blood glucose levels.

Insulin is produced by the beta cells and glucagon by the alpha cells of the Pancreatic Islets of Langerhans. One of insulin s major effects is to lower blood glucose by suppressing hepatic glucose output and stimulating peripheral glucose uptake. Endogenous insulin levels may be low or undetectable in some patients with diabetes mellitus. Exogenous insulin is usually administered to reduce hyperglycemia in situations where circulating insulin levels are either low or ineffective. Glucagon generally has effects opposite to those of insulin including primarily increasing hepatic glucose output and thereby increasing blood glucose levels. Glucagon levels tend to increase when blood glucose levels fall to abnormally low levels particularly in patients who utilize exogenous insulin.

Current goals for diabetes management include near normal blood glucose levels to delay or prevent microvascular complications achievement of this goal usually requires intensive insulin therapy. In striving to achieve this goal physicians have encountered a substantial increase in the frequency and severity of hypoglycemia in their diabetic patients.

Hypoglycemia characterized by low blood glucose levels results in autonomic and adrenergic as well as neuroglycopenic symptoms these symptoms typically are encountered as a result of inadvertent excessive insulin administration. Currently hypoglycemia is defined as a blood glucose of 

There remains a need for new methods for treating diabetes and new preparations of insulin and glucagon that reduce the risk of hypoglycemia induced by insulin therapy. The present invention meets this and other needs.

One aspect of the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising both insulin and glucagon in amounts that can be administered to a diabetic patient not only to achieve therapeutically effective control of diabetes but also to prevent hypoglycemia. The formulations can include for example formulations suitable for injection including by subcutaneous s.c. administration formulations suitable for administration orally formulations suitable for transdermal administration formulations suitable for ocular administration and formulations suitable for inhalation. In one embodiment the compositions comprises between about 0.1 to 5 percent glucagon to insulin by weight for I.V. administration or a dose equivalent amount for other methods of administration. In another embodiment the compositions comprise about 0.5 to 2 percent glucagon to insulin by weight when the composition is for I.V. administration or a dose equivalent amount for other methods of administration. For example in some embodiments the glucagon is administered subcutaneously s.c. and 0.1 to 20 glucagon to insulin by weight is administered. In some embodiments the composition is configured for s.c. administration and comprises 0.1 20 ng kg min. of glucagon to 2 20 units of insulin. In some embodiments the composition is configured for s.c. administration and comprises sufficient glucagon for the administration of 5 to about 20 ng kg min. e.g. more than 5 to 20 ng of glucagon for each kg of a person for each minute of effectiveness of glucagon. In one embodiment 5 to about 20 ng kg min. of glucagon is administered to 1 20 units of insulin. Administered ratios can be for example administered once an hour. In a preferred embodiment the composition is suitable for administration of more 5 to about 20 ng kg min of glucagon for each 1 2 units of insulin administered. As will be appreciated in some embodiments the glucagon and insulin can be kept in separate containers and are not administered at the same time but the appropriate ratios between the two are maintained. In one embodiment the separate containers are contained in a single device suitable for administration of the glucagon and insulin for example for administration subcutaneously in another two devices are used one for each agent.

In another aspect methods to treat diabetes in a human or other mammal without inducing or with a substantially reduced risk of inducing hypoglycemia are provided. In one embodiment the composition comprising insulin and glucagon is administered to a patient before the symptoms of mild moderate or severe hypoglycemia are present. In some embodiments the methods of the invention are practiced to prevent nocturnal hypoglycemia in a Type I diabetic patient being treated with insulin therapy including intensive insulin therapy. The methods comprise co administration of insulin and glucagon wherein said insulin is administered in amounts therapeutically effective for the control of diabetes and said glucagon is administered in amounts therapeutically effective for the prevention of hypoglycemia and wherein both insulin and glucagon are preferably administered simultaneously with one another or contemporaneously with one another i.e. within about four hours of each other as when regular LISPRO and ASPART insulins are used or within about six to twelve hours of each other as when longer acting insulins are used and in any event prior to the onset of clinically observable hypoglycemia. In one embodiment glucagon is administered before the insulin is administered. In another embodiment insulin is administered before glucagon is administered. In one embodiment the method involves maintaining the level of blood sugar above 70 mg dL and below 180 mg dL by the co administration of insulin and glucagon to a diabetic patient. In another embodiment the method involves administering glucagon s.c. in an amount between about 6 and 18 ng kg per minute of glucagon. In one embodiment 1 20 or 2 20 units of insulin are administered to a diabetic patient receiving glucagon in an amount between 6 and 18 ng kg min s.c. In another embodiment the method involves administering between about 8 and 12 ng kg per minute of glucagon s.c. In one embodiment 0.1 to 2 or 2 20 units of insulin are administered to a diabetic patient receiving glucagon in an amount between 8 and 12 ng kg min. s.c. In another embodiment the glucagon is administered by a means other than intravenously or subcutaneously and a dose equivalent to the s.c. dosing provided above is administered.

In another aspect methods to maintain blood glucose levels in a range that is neither hyperglycemic nor hypoglycemic are provided. These methods comprise the co administration of insulin and glucagon.

In another aspect glucagon formulations and modified glucagon suitable for co administration with insulin in accordance with the present methods are provided.

In another aspect kits are provided for preventing hypoglycemia. In one embodiment the kits preferably include insulin glucagon and instructions for simultaneously administering the appropriate combination thereof.

In some aspects methods for restoring or preventing loss of hypoglycemic awareness or sensitivity is provided. The methods comprise administering an amount of glucagon to a patient over a period of time that is sufficient to prevent or restore hypoglycemic awareness to the patient. In one embodiment the patient is administered insulin concurrently with the administration of glucagon.

In one aspect a pharmaceutical formulation is provided that comprises insulin in an amount effective for the control of diabetes and glucagon in an amount effective for the prevention of hypoglycemia in a human or other mammal. The pharmaceutical formulation is configured to be administered subcutaneously and the ratio of insulin to glucagon is typically about 1 unit of insulin to between more than 40 milliunits to 200 milliunits of glucagon. In some embodiments the amount of glucagon is between about 50 and 100 milliunits. In some embodiments the glucagon is a longer acting form of glucagon. In some embodiments the longer acting form of glucagon contains iodine. In some embodiments the longer acting form of glucagon contains zinc. In some embodiments the longer acting form of glucagon further comprises protamine.

In another aspect methods of treating diabetes in a human or other mammal without inducing hypoglycemia are provided. The methods comprise administering insulin in an amount therapeutically effective for the control of diabetes. The insulin can be in an amount between 0.5 and 20 Units of insulin. The methods further comprise administering glucagon in a time and an amount therapeutically effective for the prevention of hypoglycemia. The glucagon can be administered subcutaneously and in an amount between more than 5 and less than or equal to 100 ng per kg of patient per minute of desired glucagon effectiveness. In some embodiments the amount of glucagon administered is between 6 and 18 ng per kg of patient per minute of desired glucagon effectiveness. In some embodiments the glucagon is a glucagon with a prolonged duration of action. In some embodiments the glucagon is contained in a liposomal formulation. In some embodiments the glucagon is contained in a microsphere. In some embodiments one administers a formulation comprising both insulin and glucagon. In some embodiments the insulin and glucagon are contained in a pump that controls administration of a drug to a patient. In some embodiments the glucagon is administered simultaneously with insulin. In some embodiments the ratio of glucagon to insulin is about more than 40 to 200 milliunits of glucagon to 1 unit of insulin. In some embodiments 2 units of insulin are administered. In some embodiments 10 units of insulin are administered and between 30 and 90 ng per kg per minute of glucagon are administered subcutaneously.

In another aspect kits for the administration of glucagon and insulin in amounts to prevent hypoglycemia is provided. The kits comprise glucagon and insulin. The glucagon and insulin are in a ratio of 1 20 units of insulin to 32 480 milliunits of glucagon. The kits further comprise a means for administering glucagon subcutaneously and instructions for the administration of insulin and glucagon so that the glucagon prevents a hypoglycemic event. In some embodiments the concentration of glucagon when completely dissolved in a glycerine solution is more than 500 micrograms per milliliter but less than 2000 micrograms per milliliter. In some embodiments the glucagon and insulin are in a ratio of 1 3 units of insulin to 32 96 milliunits of glucagon. In some embodiments the means for administering the glucagon subcutaneously is a pump and said pump is configured to deliver between about 6 to 20 ng kg minute of glucagon.

In another aspect the use of glucagon in combination with insulin in the preparation of a medicament for treatment of diabetes is provided. Glucagon is used in an amount sufficient to prevent an onset of hypoglycemia wherein a ratio of glucagon to insulin is between more than 40 micrograms and less than 500 micrograms of glucagon to 1 20 units of insulin. In some embodiments the amount is sufficient to prevent an onset of hypoglycemia unawareness. In some embodiments the amount of insulin is between 1 and 20 units and the amount of glucagon is between 41 and 200 milliunits. In some embodiments a ratio of insulin to glucagon is about between 1 and 3 units of insulin to between more than 40 and less than or equal to about 96 milliunits glucagon. In some embodiments the glucagon further comprises protamine.

Methods and compositions are provided that can prevent or significantly reduce the frequency and severity of hypoglycemia in insulin treated diabetic patients both Type 1 and 2 . In one aspect the methods and compositions are employed to treat diabetes while regulating glucose levels above the levels of hypoglycemia. The methods and compositions can be used to replenish or restore the abnormally low glucagon responses often coincident with insulin administration thereby preventing hypoglycemia.

One issue that complicates the prevention of hypoglycemia is that repeated hypoglycemic events can lead to a loss of hypoglycemic awareness thus even if initially detected by a patient the patient s ability to identify hypoglycemic symptoms can be compromised or lost over time. Thus compositions and methods that can prevent or reverse the loss of hypoglycemic awareness are desirable. One method by which this can be achieved is to administer glucagon or another agent that elevates levels of blood glucose as described herein in a relatively low dose over the time period in which insulin is to act to prevent the onset of mild hypoglycemia. This can also be used to reverse or prevent a loss of hypoglycemic awareness.

In one embodiment the invention provides pharmaceutical formulations of two hormones insulin and glucagon that are combined in molar ratios that optimize glycemic management and attenuate the incidence of or prevent hypoglycemia. In another embodiment methods and compositions for the simultaneous but separate administration of insulin and glucagon to achieve this benefit are provided. While the simultaneous administration of two hormones with activities viewed as counteracting would traditionally have appeared to have no beneficial effect some of the present embodiments arise in part from the realization that such administration achieves the beneficial effect of preventing hypoglycemia by virtue of the buffering or blunting effects of glucagon without diminishing the beneficial effects of glucose regulation provided by insulin. In some embodiments a low amount of glucagon is continuously administered to a patient that is has or is going to receive insulin. Thus the use of a hyperglycemic agent such as glucagon to prevent the onset of hypoglycemia and its associated symptoms due to insulin administration is contemplated. In some embodiments a hyperglycemic agent such as glucagon is used to prevent the onset of iatrogenic hypoglycemia.

Thus some of the embodiments provide a method for controlling diabetes with a reduced risk of hypoglycemia by simultaneous administration of insulin and glucagon to a diabetic patient. In one embodiment a method of preventing hypoglycemia in a diabetic patient who is being treated with insulin and who is not suffering hypoglycemic symptoms is provided comprising administering glucagon to the patient in an amount therapeutically effective for the prevention of hypoglycemia. In one embodiment the glucagon is administered simultaneously with the insulin. In another embodiment the glucagon is administered 10 minutes to hours before additional insulin is administered and more preferably 30 minutes to 60 minutes before additional insulin is administered. In other embodiments the glucagon is administered within about one minute to about four hours after said patient has last been administered insulin. In one embodiment the prevention of hypoglycemia comprises preventing the symptoms associated with hypoglycemia from becoming evident in a subject. In another embodiment the prevention of hypoglycemia is achieved through maintaining an average blood glucose level of a subject above about 70 mg dL or above about 50 60 mg dL. Preferably the blood glucose level of the subject is maintained under about 140 200 and at least under about 350 mg dL. Preferably the subject s blood glucose level is maintained so that normoglycemia is maintained.

As will be apparent to one of skill in the art upon consideration of the disclosure herein any of the many different forms of insulin as well as any of the many different routes of administration of insulin including those both approved by the FDA and in development can be used in the presently disclosed methods and formulations. Moreover any of the currently available formulations of glucagon can similarly be used in the methods and formulations. However because glucagon has been prior to the present disclosure administered only parenterally to control hypoglycemia the present disclosure provides new glucagon derivatives new formulations of glucagon and glucagon derivatives and methods of administering glucagon and glucagon derivatives that are particularly suited to achieve the benefits provided by some of the present embodiments including delayed and or extended action glucagon.

While the precise dosage of insulin and glucagon will vary from patient to patient and depend upon a variety of factors including but not limited to age and sex of the patient type and severity of diabetes past history of the patient including hypoglycemic and hyperglycemic episodes type of insulin and glucagon employed and the like the dosage for any patient can be determined in light of the present disclosure by one of skill in the art. The beneficial effects of some of the embodiments can generally be achieved by administering both insulin and glucagon in the ratio of about 1 unit of Insulin to about 0.02 40 milliunits of glucagon 0.02 to 40 micrograms when the glucagon is administered I.V. A unit of insulin is defined as the term is typically used for the treatment of diabetes e.g. approximately 34.2 micrograms to approximately 40 micrograms. The amount of insulin can also be measured in international units IU . A unit of glucagon corresponds to 1 milligram of glucagon. In one embodiment the ratio is 1 unit of insulin to 0.2 to 4.0 milliunits of glucagon 0.2 to 4.0 micrograms when the glucagon is administered I.V. and the insulin is administered s.c. When the glucagon is to be administered subcutaneously 1 unit of insulin can be administered in the amount of 0.02 to 200 milliunits of glucagon for each unit of insulin administered or more than 40 to 200 milliunits of glucagon e.g. 40 to 200 milliunits per hour to a 100 kg person for each unit of insulin administered. In another embodiment for each unit of insulin 48 150 mU 50 120 mU or 80 100 mU of glucagon is administered. In a preferred embodiment the glucagon is administered subcutaneously and the ratio is about 1 unit of insulin to more than 5 to about 20 ng kg glucagon which amount of glucagon is administered each minute during the period of effectiveness of the insulin dose. In one embodiment 1 unit of insulin is administered and the glucagon is administered at a rate of 8 12 ng kg min. A standard dose can be created for example for treating a 100 kg person for 1 hour in association with 1 unit of insulin. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art this dose can be for basal insulin rates. When postprandial levels of insulin are desired the amount of glucagon in the dose will be increased accordingly. In some embodiments the glucagon is administered subcutaneously in an amount between more than 5 ng kg min. and less than about 20 ng kg min. More preferably the amount is between about 8 and 16 ng of glucagon kg min for subcutaneous administration. Of course one of skill in the art will appreciate that other dose equivalent amounts i.e. the same effective amount administered through an alternative method can also be determined in light of the teachings herein. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art and as shown in more detail below this amount can be adjusted to correspond to the amount of glucagon required to prevent hypoglycemia without inducing hyperglycemia. Thus in some embodiments the amount of glucagon administered even through s.c. administration is less than the 5 20 ng kg min values described as effective in the prevention of insulin induced hypoglycemia. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art while the present disclosure focuses on Type 1 diabetes similar methods and compositions can be used for Type 2 diabetes. In general the amount of glucagon can be increased several fold over what is disclosed herein for Type 1 diabetes. For example Type 2 diabetes can require 1.5 to 5 fold more glucagon and preferably involves two to three fold more glucagon than Type 1 diabetes.

Any of the currently available forms of insulin including but not limited to recombinant human soluble regular insulin human insulin analogs animal insulins derived for example from beef pork and other species as well as delayed release forms including intermediate and long acting insulin may be used for the herein disclosed compositions and methods. Moreover any of the currently used routes of administration as well as newer routes in development can be employed including but not limited to subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous injection as well as oral buccal nasal transdermal sublingual and pulmonary airway administration. Typical doses and dose ranges for the administration of insulin to control diabetes known in the art are suitable for use in the methods and compositions of some of the embodiments.

For example prandial short acting insulins such as regular insulin and the LISPRO ASPART and GLULISINE derivatives thereof are well known in the art and commonly used to treat diabetes. Such insulins can be used to illustrate the embodiments in a manner applicable to other forms including but not limited to NPH LENTE SEMI LENTE DETEMIR ULTRA LENTE and GLARGINE LANTUS and pre mixed formulations of regular and long acting insulins. In this illustration the molecular weights ascribed to all three of these prandial short acting insulins are similar with LISPRO at 5808 ASPART at 5825.8 GLULISINE at 5823 and regular insulin at 5807. The molecular weight ascribed to glucagon is 3483.

The usual range of prandial insulin injections in Type 1 diabetes can be approximated as two standard deviations from the mean resulting in an insulin dose range of 2 20 units. More than 95 of Type 1 diabetics will be administered a prandial insulin dose within this range. The three prandial insulins noted above all achieve peak serum concentrations within 1 2 hours after subcutaneous administration and have a duration of effectiveness of about 5 hours.

Currently hypoglycemia is treated by a single parenteral injection of glucagon in a dose of about 1 mg 1 unit it has been determined that this dose is a gross excess of the dose actually required to control hypoglycemia. When glucagon is given subcutaneously or intramuscularly serum glucagon peaks within an hour and its effects can persist for several hours. However it appears that currently marketed forms of glucagon are not stable in liquid form either isolated or in vivo for prolonged periods of time and in one embodiment the present invention provides new pharmaceutical formulations of glucagon that are more stable and new methods for using the stabler forms of glucagon that are currently available but not in widespread use.

It has been discovered based in part on the respective times to peak serum level and durations of action of the prandial insulins and subcutaneously administered glucagon that there is a mismatch between subcutaneous insulin and glucagon pharmacokinetics. One embodiment of the present invention provides longer acting glucagon formulations and derivatives that can be used to correct this mis match where desired or of benefit to the patient. Longer acting glucagon as used herein refers to a glucagon that has a half life greater than that of standard glucagon including both natural extract and rDNA produced synthetic glucagon.

To provide the dose of glucagon required to achieve a duration of effect that is similar to that of the prandial insulins one can use a dose that approximates the basal replacement dose. The usual basal glucagon replacement dose by IV infusion is 0.5 0.75 ng kg min one can assume that a wider range of glucagon infusions from as low as 0.10 to 5.00 ng kg min more often 0.10 to 3.00 ng kg min can be effective depending on the patient the insulin dose the method of administration e.g. I.V. vs. s.c. and other factors. For example in s.c. administration the present inventors have discovered that the amount of glucagon administered can be higher as the bioavailability of glucagon administered by subcutaneous infusion can be as low as 10 and as low as about 35 for bolus subcutaneous administration. Thus the dose will be increased or decreased accordingly to obtain the equivalent therapeutic effect of administering glucagon at a rate of 5 to 20 ng kg min. To match the PK of the insulins these glucagon infusion rates would be continued for a period of time ranging from 150 minutes to 300 minutes. In some embodiments the period of time of infusion can last longer than 6 hours for example 6 7 7 10 10 15 15 20 20 24 hours or longer. One can then multiply the replacement rates by the minimum and maximum times to give the total dose kg. If one assumes that the typical Type 1 diabetic has a weight within the range of 50 to 100 kg and that the high and low range dose of subcutaneous prandial insulin injection is between 2 and 20 units then the insulin glucagon ratios can be calculated as shown in Table 1 below showing the ratios for s.c. administration . Of course this dosage replacement can happen through IV infusion of a dose equivalent amount. In one embodiment the same calculations described above are used to determine the amount of delayed or extended release forms of glucagon to administer to a patient taking into account that there will be a lower level of glucagon available initially and a higher amount of glucagon available later. While the amount of glucagon released at any point in time may not be precisely known enough glucagon is released per unit of time from the administered formulation so that on average about 0.1 to 5.0 ng kg min. is released into the patient for embodiments in which the glucagon is administered through an I.V. In one embodiment 0.5 2 3 or 4 times as much glucagon may be released on any given unit of time depending on the patient the type of diabetes being treated and the mode of administration.

In some embodiments and as illustrated in table 1 the glucagon is administered subcutaneously and is administered in an amount between 0.1 to about 30 ng kg min. about 4.0 to about 20 ng kg min. about more than 5.0 to about 30 ng kg min about 6 to 25 ng kg min about 6 to 20 ng kg min or about 8.0 to about 12.0 ng kg min.

In Table 1 the amount of glucagon administered ranges from 5.6 to 675 of the amount in weight of insulin administered for many patients however the glucagon is administered at or is present in a composition at 

In other embodiments the amount of glucagon administered can be described as an amount of glucagon by weight or activity independent of the amount of insulin administered for example in one embodiment the amount of glucagon administered is 200 300 or 360 900 micrograms over a nine hour period. In one embodiment the amount of glucagon administered is between about 22 to 33 micrograms in one hour. In one embodiment the glucagon administered ranges from more than 5 ng kg min to about 30 ng kg min s.c. In some embodiments the amount is about 0.1 ng kg min to about 30 ng kg min. In one embodiment the amount is about 8 to about 16 ng kg min or about 12 ng kg min. s.c. In some embodiments substantially lower values can be sufficient as well depending upon the circumstances and mode of administration.

In one embodiment hypoglycemia is a blood glucose level of less than about 50 60 and generally less than about 70 mg dL and hyperglycemia is a blood glucose level more than about 140 to 200 mg dL. In one embodiment excessive hyperglycemia is defined as a blood glucose level above 350 mg dL. The ratio of glucagon to insulin and amounts of each is set in accordance with the methods of the invention to keep the blood sugar level effectively between the hypoglycemic level and the hyperglycemia level. In another embodiment the blood sugar level is maintained between the hypoglycemic level and the excessive hyperglycemia level. In another embodiment the blood sugar level is maintained between the hyperglycemia level and the excessive hyperglycemia level. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the level need not be observed precisely and minor dips below or peaks above these ranges are permissible. In one embodiment the dose to be administered to a patient is therapeutically equivalent to a dose of 0.5 to 0.75 ng kg min of glucagon administered I.V. or is therapeutically equivalent to a dose of above 5 to about 20 ng kg min. s.c. i.e. 8 16 ng kg min of glucagon via s.c. administration. In some embodiments 0.1 to 5 ng kg min. is all that is needed for the subcutaneous administration for the prevention of the onset of hypoglycemia. In some embodiments the same amount of glucagon or effective ratio of glucagon to insulin is used even if an agent other than insulin is used to lower or control blood sugar levels. Thus in some embodiments the method of the invention may be practiced with an agent other than insulin as the co administration of glucagon in light of the present disclosure with a hypoglycemic agent is contemplated. Similarly in some embodiments a hyperglycemic agent other than glucagon is used to prevent the onset of hypoglycemia in insulin treated diabetics. In some embodiments neither insulin nor glucagon is used and a diabetic patient is simultaneously administered both a hyperglycemic agent an agent that causes blood sugar levels to rise and a hypoglycemic agent an agent that causes blood sugar levels to decline .

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in view of the instant disclosure the amount of glucagon or insulin administered to a patient can vary depending upon the mode of administration For example the amount of glucagon or ratio of insulin to glucagon to be added can be described in terms of the amount to be administered via an I.V. as in PCT Pub. No WO 2004 060387 incorporated herein by reference . This amount can differ greatly depending upon how the glucagon is to be administered e.g. subcutaneously or via inhalation. For simplicity the amount of glucagon required to achieve an equivalent result can be described as a dose equivalent. For example a 10 ng kg min. s.c. dose equivalent is the amount required to achieve the same result as would be achieved by administering 10 ng kg min. to a patient subcutaneously. A s.c. dose equivalent for I.V. administration is the amount of glucagon administered intravenously that is required to obtain the same amount of glucose or glucagon in the blood achieved by subcutaneous administration of the amount of glucagon. Thus in the latter phraseology the first method of administration describes what the dose administered is going to be an equivalent to using another mode of administration and the second mode of administration recited is the mode of administration actually employed. An I.V. dose equivalent of glucagon administered subcutaneously will typically be more than the amount recited for I.V. administration as can be seen by comparing the table above to Table 1 in PCT Pub. No. WO 2004 060387. For example a unit to be delivered I.V. is in some patients 0.1 ng kg min. while the amount for the same effect to be delivered subcutaneously can be 8 ng kg min. in those patients. In addition in a clinical trial described in the Examples below the amounts of glucagon required to be administered to induce hyperglycemia in an insulin treated diabetic were for some patients in the 8 16 ng kg min. range although lower doses were seen to be effective as well so the amounts of glucagon required merely to prevent hypoglycemia will be below that range in some patients. Given the present disclosure one of skill in the art will be able to determine the appropriate amount in each circumstance.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the amount of glucagon administered is not necessarily the amount of glucagon that actually enters the bloodstream of a patient. Rather for example administering 9 ng kg min. s.c. of glucagon to a patient means that an initial solution of an initial known amount was created and based on that amount 9 ng kg min. of glucagon is administered to a patient. If there is a loss or degradation of the glucagon prior to administration then less glucagon enters the patient and if there is a loss or degradation of glucagon as it progresses to the patient s bloodstream and tissues the effective therapeutic dose is lower still. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the actual amount of glucagon that is active and enters the patient s circulation will in such instances be less than in this example 9 ng kg min.

One of skill in the art given the present disclosure can determine the dose equivalent for various methods or modes of administration. This dose equivalent can also vary depending on inter and intrapatient variability and the bioavailability of the drug. For example if one assumes glucagon administered through an I.V. is 100 bioavailable then certain glucagon formulations administered through a s.c. bolus can have about 35 bioavailability while the same glucagon formulation administered by continuous subcutaneous infusion can have a bioavailability of 10 as shown with patient data in the Examples below. Additionally differences between the method of administration of insulin and of glucagon can also be taken into account and determined through the methods and examples provided herein. One way this can be determined is through various assays of insulin glucose and glucagon in a patient following various routes of administration of the glucagon e.g. as illustrated in Example 7.

The pharmaceutical compositions for use in many embodiments of the invention can comprise those compositions useful in conventional methods for the control of diabetes and treatment of hypoglycemia. Such conventional methods as that phrase is used herein include those approved by the FDA those in development and those described in Diagnosis and Management of Type II Diabetes by S. V. Edelman and R. R. Henry 5Ed. PCI Publishers the entire text of which is incorporated herein by reference and Chapters 7 and 8 of which are especially pertinent. As used herein a pharmaceutical formulation or pharmaceutical composition may contain a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient diluent or carrier. The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable means that the carrier diluent or excipient is compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and administration equipment and not deleterious to the recipient thereof. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are well known in the art. See e.g. 191995 Gennavo ed. .

In one embodiment the glucagon or similar substance is administered in a buffer. Appropriate buffers are those that maintain the mixture at a pH range from about 6.0 to about 9.0 but which do not interfere with the function of glucagon. Examples of buffers include but are not limited to Goode s buffers HEPES Tris ammonium acetate sodium acetate Bis Tris phosphate citrate arginine histidine and Tris acetate. The selection of one or more appropriate buffers is within the skill of one of ordinary skill in the art.

The control of diabetes by insulin therapy as well as the control of hypoglycemia by glucagon therapy can involve parenteral administration of the insulin or glucagon. Parenteral administration may be performed by subcutaneous or intramuscular injection by means of a syringe optionally a pen like syringe. Some of the embodiments of the methods can be practiced using such methodology although as noted above it may be preferable in some instances to provide glucagon in a manner that ensures that its duration of action more closely matches that of the insulin employed such that the glucagon is present when the risk of hypoglycemia is greatest typically a relatively long time after eating but still within the period in which the insulin administered continues to exert its effect.

Where subcutaneous administration of insulin and glucagon are desired a variety of methods may be employed to achieve the benefits of diabetes control and prevention of hypoglycemia. In one such method a glucagon with a shorter duration of action than the insulin is administered within about one to four hours after the insulin is administered. This method provides benefit in that most hypoglycemic episodes begin several hours after the patient has last eaten and many patients administer insulin shortly before a meal. Thus by delivering the glucagon a few hours after the insulin but prior to the onset of hypoglycemic symptoms one can achieve the benefits of the methods of the invention. Certain embodiments provide methods for controlling diabetes with reduced risk of inducing hypoglycemia by administering insulin in continuation with a long acting glucagon and formulations thereof. Thus in one embodiment compositions having a long acting form of glucagon are provided.

In general long acting forms are also known as extended release prolonged release or controlled release or similar term forms. In one embodiment delayed or slow acting glucagon is a particular form of an extended or long release form of glucagon. Delayed acting glucagon is within the general class of long acting glucagon as delayed or slow acting glucagon will allow for glucagon activity to occur after a period of time following the administration of glucagon however delayed acting glucagon is effective in lower amounts at the initial administration and increases in effectiveness over time. The glucagon itself may be long acting in nature or it may be combined with other components that allow its release over an extended amount of time.

In another embodiment the insulin and glucagon can be administered simultaneously with the insulin and optionally the glucagon delivered parenterally typically by subcutaneous injection. In this method a glucagon with a longer duration of action is preferably employed or the glucagon is administered by a route that provides a longer duration of action e.g. as by continuous infusion as illustrated in the Examples below.

Such glucagon includes but is not limited to the glucagon glucagon formulations and routes of administration described in U.S. patent application publication No. 2002114829 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 197 333 and 6 348 214 which describe liposome formulations of glucagon that provide for reduced dosage effect and are long acting PCT patent publication No. WO0243566 which describes the delivery of glucagon via transdermal patch U.S. Pat. No. 5 445 832 which describes a long acting glucagon formulation in polymeric microspheres PCT patent publication No. WO0222154 which describes a slow release glucagon that can have a duration of action measured in weeks and U.S. Pat. No. 3 897 551 and Great Britain U.S. Pat. No. 1 363 954 which describes the prolongation of glucagon duration by iodination each of these publications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. In an embodiment the glucagon is administered as a slow release or depot formulation e.g. comprising polyethylene glycol .

There are many techniques known to those skilled in the art for modifying the release and or pharmacokinetic characteristics of proteins include the modification of the amino acid sequence at the site corresponding to the metabolic deactivation point associated with the protein. These techniques and compositions include pegylation or PEG modification of the protein see for example PCT Patent publication Nos. WO0232957 WO9831383 and WO9724440 EP patent publication Nos. EP0816381 and EP0442724 and U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2002 0115592 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 234 903 and 6 284 727 other polymer encapsulations see EP patent publication No. EP0684044 lipophilic modification see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 359 030 6 239 107 5 869 602 and 2001 0016643 EP patent publication No. EP1264837 and PCT Patent publication Nos. WO9808871 and WO9943708 formulating into liposomes see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 348 214 and 6 197 333 serum albumin modification discussed in more detail below and in PCT Patent publication Nos. WO02066511 and WO0246227 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 492 684 formulating in the form of emulsions microspheres microemulsions nanoencapsulation and microbeads see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 492 684 5 445 832 6 191 105 6 217 893 5 643 604 5 643 607 and 5 637 568 formulations involving ligands see PCT Patent publication No. WO0222154 and iodination see U.S. Pat. No. 3 897 551 .

In one embodiment an iodination method of increasing half life as described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 897 551 see form I3G is employed. Iodinated glucagon has extended activity measured in terms of elevated glucose levels of between 1 and 3 hours depending on the extent of iodination. In one embodiment LISPRO insulin and I3Glucagon are admixed so that the modified glucagon is present at approximately 1.5 by weight of the insulin in the mixture keeping the concentration of insulin per ml in the LISPRO formulation constant . Because of the longer lasting effect of the modified glucagon a smaller proportion of glucagon to insulin by weight will be required to prevent hypoglycemia in some patients.

Another form of a long acting glucagon is a zinc protamine glucagon formulation. Examples of such Zinc protamine glucagon formulations are known in the art See for example Kaindl et al. Verh Dtsch Ges Inn Med. 1972 78 1099 101 Kaindl and Kuhn Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1972 Dec. 15 27 24 1097 8 Christiansen and Tonnensen Med. Scand. 1974 December 196 6 495 6 Gamba et al. Minerva Med. 1977 Nov. 3 68 53 3613 26 Kollee et al. Arch Dis Child. 1978 May 53 5 422 4 Kalima and Lempinen Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1980 69 6 293 5 Aynsley Green et al. Arch Dis Child. 1981 July 56 7 496 508 Schmid and Wietholter Dtsch Med. Wochenschr. 1982 Nov. 26 107 47 1809 11 Day and Mastaglia Aust N Z J. Med. 1985 December 15 6 748 50 Cederblad et al. Horm Res. 1998 50 2 94 8 all herein incorporated in their entireties by reference.

Additionally Pichler et al. Wien Klin Wochenschr 19 91 2 49 51 1979 demonstrated that a zinc protamine form of glucagon had a maximal effects up to 3 hours after the actual administration of the drug and only displayed a decrease in activity after the fourth hour. Thus the effective half life of zinc protamine glucagon is in the range of hours.

In one embodiment glucagon is combined with zinc without protamine as described in Tarding et al. European Journal of Pharmacology 7 206 210 1969 hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference . This also results in a long acting form of glucagon. In one embodiment the mixture involves a 1 to 2 ratio of zinc to glucagon.

In one embodiment the zinc protamine glucagon is made in a manner similar to how zinc protamine insulin is made apart from the replacement of insulin with glucagon. In one embodiment zinc glucagon and zinc protamine glucagon is made as described in Tarding et al. European Journal of Pharmacology 7 206 210 1969 . For example zinc glucagon can be made by suspending freeze dried zinc glucagon crystals in a zinc acetate buffer for a final concentration of 1 mg glucagon ml 0.05 mg zinc ml. Alternatively the zinc protamine glucagon can be prepared by suspending freeze dried zinc glucagon crystals in a zinc acetate buffer containing protamine to a final concentration of 2 mg glucagon ml 0.15 mg zinc ml and 0.5 mg protamine ml.

Another example of an agent that can be included with glucagon in compositions useful in the present methods includes a protamine sulfate as described in combination with GLP 1 in U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 365 issued Mar. 4 2004 to Galloway et al. . The GLP 1 combination therein disclosed displays an increased half life and an increased shelf life as well. Any glucagon which displays an increased half life can be useful in the present methods and compositions.

Another means by which the half life of the protein may be extended is through the use of serum binders such as can be achieved through the conjugation of albumin to glucagon by a connector. In one embodiment the glucagon contains a moiety which allows it to attach itself to albumin in vivo. Alternatively the glucagon may be modified such that it is able to connect to a connector which will then allow the glucagon molecule to be associated with a protein such as albumin in vivo. Thus the modified glucagon can be directly added to a patient where it will subsequently bind to albumin in the host which will in turn result in the extension of the useful life of glucagon in the system. This approach has been described for other purposes for GLP 1 in U.S. Patent Publication 20030108568 published Jun. 12 2003 to Bridon et al. as well as for various other proteins See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 277 863 issued Aug. 21 2001 to Krantz et al. 6 500 918 issued Dec. 31 2002 to Ezrin et al. 6 107 489 issued Aug. 22 2000 to Krantz et al. 6 329 336 issued Dec. 11 2001 to Bridon et al. and 6 103 233 issued Aug. 15 2000 to Pouletty et al. all of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties . In one embodiment the binding between glucagon and albumin occurs with the aid of biotin and avidin or streptavidin. In another embodiment glucagon can be attached to other proteins through the use of maleimide groups and sulfur groups. The glucagon can be attached to any suitable protein not only albumin.

In one embodiment a prolonged release form of glucagon is a gel or fibril based form of glucagon. These may be prepared as described in Gratzer and Davies European J. Biochem. 11 37 42 1969 hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference. 

Other forms of prolonged release glucagon are also contemplated for use in the present methods. Long release preparations may be made using polymers to complex or absorb the glucagon. The controlled delivery may be exercised by selecting appropriate macromolecules and the concentration of macromolecules as well as the methods of incorporation to control release. For example diffusion controlled systems may be used. Examples of such materials include particles of a polymeric material such as polyesters polyamino acids polyvinylpyrrolidone methylcellulose carboxymethylcellulose hydrogels poly lactic acid or ethylene vinylacetate copolymers. Alternatively instead of incorporating a compound with these polymeric particles it is possible to entrap a compound of some of the embodiments in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules respectively or in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nanoparticles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such teachings are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 . In one embodiment the rate of dissolution of the drug is primarily controlled by the dissolution of a shell which encapsulates the drug.

In one embodiment an osmotic pump system is used to provide a prolonged release of glucagon allowing the rate of release of the drug to be controlled by the inflow of water across a semipermeable membrane into a reservoir that has an osmotic agent. In another embodiment ion exchange resins are used to control the release of glucagon.

In one embodiment the extended release form of glucagon is a preproglucagon Lund et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 79 345 349 1982 . This polypeptide is subsequently processed to form proglucagon which is subsequently cleaved into glucagon and a second polypeptide Patzelt C. et al. Nature 282 260 266 1979 . Thus by administering this form of prepro or proglucagon one is able to delay the onset of the activity of the glucagon.

In one embodiment glucagon is administered in a form that allows substantially no release of active glucagon initially and then allows for a small amount of release of glucagon over time. Such a form of glucagon is useful when prolonged periods between drug intake will occur and the desired result is an effect towards the end of the prolonged period for example during nocturnal periods. The form may be inherent in the glucagon protein itself i.e. a semi synthetic glucagon variant due to compositions associated with the protein due to the formulations in which the glucagon is administered due to the route and method by which the glucagon is administered as well as other reasons as described herein.

Glucagon with a low activity level is desirable in some circumstances. As the delivery of precise amounts of small volumes can be difficult especially over prolonged periods of time compositions of glucagon comprising components that lower the activity of glucagon may be desirable in some situations to allow the administration of larger volumes of sample. Alternatively variants or mutants of glucagon with a lower activity level can be used to achieve this result. The term glucagon can encompass both wild type glucagon and variants or derivatives of glucagon.

In some embodiments a combination of an insulin component and a slow release form of a glucagon provided by the invention is employed in the methods of the invention. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the combination may be achieved through a single or multiple formulations and single or multiple means of administering the insulin component or the glucagon component.

In one embodiment parenteral administration is performed by means of an infusion pump. A variety of insulin pumps are available and in common use that are suitable for delivery of the insulin and glucagon compositions as well as suitable for the delivery of insulin with glucagon being delivered by another route such as transdermal . Such pumps include for example and without limitation the pumps marketed by Medtronic such as the MiniMed Animas Corporation Disetronic and Dana. The glucagon can optionally be administered with the insulin and a glucagon with a short duration of action can be employed as the glucagon can be administered as necessary. In one embodiment the glucagon can be administered intravenously at a rate of 0.5 0.75 ng kg min or within the wider range of about 0.10 5 ng kg min alternatively within the range about 0.10 3 ng kg min. or in an amount that is an intravenous dose equivalent. In a preferred embodiment the glucagon is administered subcutaneously and is administered in an amount between about 4 and 30 ng kg min about more than 5.0 up to 25 ng kg min about 8.0 to 20 ng kg min or about 8.0 to 12.0 ng kg min. Lower amounts of glucagon can be administered 0.1 5 or 2 5 ng kg min. subcutaneously to prevent hypoglycemia in some patients. In one embodiment a dose will prevent hypoglycemia without causing excessive hyperglycemia. Hyperglycemia is a blood glucose above the normal range. Glucagon can elevate blood glucose above where it would be without the administration of exogenous glucagon and in a preferred embodiment the dose administered is one that is still protective against hypoglycemia but only minimally elevates blood glucose above the levels maintained in the patient when not suffering from hypoglycemia.

Thus in one embodiment the present invention provides a new drug delivery device a pump suitable for the delivery of insulin for the control of diabetes and for the delivery of glucagon for the control of hypoglycemia in a human i.e. the pump contains both insulin and glucagon. The pump may include a reservoir containing both insulin and glucagon. In other embodiments the pump includes insulin and glucagon in two separately controlled reservoirs. A method of controlling diabetes in a human patient to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia is provided said method comprising administering both insulin and glucagon to the diabetic patient using a pump of one of the embodiments described above.

In another method either the insulin or the glucagon or both is provided in a formulation that is a powder or a liquid suitable for administration as a nasal or pulmonary spray or for ocular administration. A variety of such formulations are known for insulin and glucagon and the present disclosure provides methods for using these known formulations for administering either one independently as well as for administering the corresponding formulations of the embodiments that comprise both insulin and glucagon to control diabetes with a reduced risk of inducing hypoglycemia.

Methods and formulations for nasal pulmonary or ocular administration include those in PCT patent publication Nos. WO0182874 and WO0182981 which describe aerosolized insulin and glucagon European patent publication EP1224929 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 004 574 which describe an inhaled glucagon with melezitose diluent U.S. Pat. No. 5 942 242 which describes formulations of insulin and formulations of glucagon suitable for nasal administration U.S. Pat. No. 5 661 130 which describes formulations suitable for ocular nasal and nasolacrimal or inhalation routes of administration U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 608 which describes methods and formulations for the nasal administration of insulin and for glucagon U.S. Pat. No. 5 428 006 which describes methods and formulations for the nasal and other mucosal administration of insulin and for glucagon U.S. Pat. No. 5 397 771 which describes methods and formulations for the mucosal administration of insulin and of glucagon U.S. Pat. No. 5 283 236 which describes methods and formulations for the ocular administration of insulin and of glucagon and European patent publication EP0272097 which describes a formulation of glucagon for nasal administration. In addition to these formulations the methods of delivering these formulations as described are also contemplated.

In one embodiment compositions and methods are provided for controlling diabetes with a reduced risk of inducing hypoglycemia by administering insulin and glucagon in which one or both of the insulin and glucagon is administered transdermally e.g. from a patch optionally a iontophoretic patch or transmucosally e.g. bucally. Manufacture and use of transdermal delivery devices are well known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 943 435 and 4 839 174 and patent publication no. US 2001033858 . The transdermal delivery of glucagon and a patent publication describing transdermal formulations of glucagon has been cited above and U.S. Pat. No. 5 707 641 describes methods and formulations for the transdermal delivery of insulin.

Moreover some embodiments of the methods can be practiced by oral administration of both insulin and or glucagon in the therapeutically effective amounts and their dose equivalents described herein. Methods and formulations for the oral administration of insulin and of glucagon include those described in PCT patent publication No. WO9703688.

The insulin and or glucagon employed in the methods and formulations can be supplemented with or replaced by compounds and compositions that have similar activities or effects. For example glucagon may be replaced with glucagon mimetics or variants of glucagon.

Insulin can be replaced or supplemented with hypoglycemic agents including but not limited to Insulin Sensitizers DPP IV inhibitors and GLP1 analogs insulin secretagogues including but not limited to sulfonylureas such as Acetohexamide DYMELOR Chlorpropamide DIABINESE Tolazamide TOLINASE Tolbutamide ORINASE Glimepiride AMARYL Glipizide GLUCOTROL Glipizide Extended Release GLUCOTROL XL Glyburide DIABETA MICRONASE Glyburide Micronized GLYNASE PRESTAB Meglitinides such as Nateglinide STARLIX and Repaglinide PRANDIN Gastric Inhibitory Polypeptide GIP Glucagon like peptide GLP 1 Morphilinoguanide BTS 67582 Phosphodiesterase inhibitors and succinate ester derivatives insulin receptor activators insulin sensitizing Biguanides such as Metformin GLUCOPHAGE Thiazolidinediones TZD such as Troglitazone REZULIN Pioglitazone ACTOS and Roziglitazone AVANDIA Non TZD peroxisome proliferator activated receptor PPAR agonist GL262570 Alpha glucosidase inhibitors such as Acarbose PRECOSE and Miglitol GLYSET Combination agents such as Glucovance GLUCOPHAGE with GLYBURIDE Tyrosine Phosphatase Inhibitors such as Vanadium PTP 1B inhibitors and AMPK activators including 5 aminoimidazole 4 carboxamide ribonucleoside AICAR and other agents such as Exendin EXENATIDE synthetic exendin 4 and Amylin SYMLIN pramlintide acetate D Chiro Inositol altered peptide ligands NBI 6024 Anergix DB complex GABA inhibit melanocortin Glucose lowering agent ALT 4037 Aerodose Aerogen insulin mimics Insulin like growth factor 1 alone or in a complex with BP3 SOMATOKLINE metoclopramide HCL Emitasol SPD 425 motillde Erythromycin analogs and GAG mimetics.

In one embodiment variants of glucagon are contemplated. Such variants may comprise a single or many amino acid changes for example from one to all of the amino acids may be changed relative to the native human glucagon sequence so long as the resulting variant functions as required herein. In one embodiment the HELIX content is adjusted at the C terminus as well as partial agonists are combined to provide more of a basal input. In one embodiment transient PEG modifications at the N terminus to control activation can be complemented with mutations introduced at the C terminus for controlling affinity. Examples of such variant glucagon molecules and their resulting characteristics and activities are available in the art. For example Sturm et al. J. Med. Chem. 41 2693 2700 1998 teaches a general structural function relationship for some of the salt bridges in glucagon. In one embodiment the variant glucagon has a Lys substitution at positions 17 and 18 and a Glu substitution at position 21 resulting in a variant with a 500 percent binding affinity and a 700 percent relative potency. In one embodiment the variant glucagon amide has only a Lys substitution at position 17 resulting in a variant with a 220 percent binding affinity and a 230 percent potency. In another embodiment the variant glucagon amide has a Nle substitution at position 17 a Lys substitution at position 18 and a Glu substitution at position 21 resulting in a variant with 150 percent binding affinity and a 300 percent potency. In another embodiment the variant glucagon molecules display low binding ability or low activity. Thus for example a glucagon amide variant with a lysine at position 18 may be used as it only has 36 percent of the normal binding affinity and only 12 percent of the normal potency. Another example would be a glucagon variant with a Phe at position 18 which has only 4.7 percent of the normal binding affinity and 0.9 percent of the relative potency.

In one embodiment the only pharmaceutically active components of the formulation are insulin and glucagon. In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition e.g. containing both insulin and glucagon is not formulated as an aerosol and or does not contain troglitazone hydrochloride and may not contain any thiazolidinedione . In an embodiment the formulation is not administered orally and or is not administered nasally. In one embodiment the pharmaceutically active components of the formulation are administered transdermally but not through a patch. For example the active components can be administered through the use of a cream.

As discussed above the simultaneous effective administration of low doses of glucagon together with insulin can help prevent insulin induced hypoglycemic events. The prevention of these events will have various beneficial results.

Repeated mild to moderate hypoglycemic events can result in a loss of hypoglycemic awareness by the subject. Thus the subject may no longer be able to detect that he or she is actually experiencing a hypoglycemic event increasing the risk that more hypoglycemic events can occur. Thus the above compositions and methods can be optimized so as to reduce the risk of this occurring. The above ratios of insulin and glucagon and amounts of glucagon recited for the prevention of hypoglycemia can be sufficient to treat this condition and the methods of the invention include methods for adjusting the amount administered to achieve the desired therapeutic effect for a particular patient mode of delivery or formulation. In some embodiments the combination of glucagon and insulin is administered to a patient to prevent the loss of hypoglycemic awareness by the subject. In other embodiments the glucagon and insulin are administered so as to restore hypoglycemic awareness to the subject. This can be achieved by administering an amount of glucagon so that additional episodes of hypoglycemia are reduced or prevented. The amount can vary e.g. 8 16 ng kg min. administered subcutaneously or 0.1 5 ng kg min intravenously.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art these therapies and compositions can be useful not only for people with diabetes but with anyone taking insulin or other hypoglycemia inducing agent.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art not every episode of mild or moderate hypoglycemia needs to be prevented. The amount or percent of events inhibited can vary by the particular situation and subject and can include inhibiting 2 5 5 10 10 20 20 30 30 40 40 50 50 60 60 70 70 80 80 90 90 99 or 99 percent to all of the mild moderate hypoglycemic events. Additionally hypoglycemia need not be prevented in every case and can be delayed in some embodiments. Any amount of delay can be useful for example a delay of 1 10 10 30 30 60 60 120 120 300 300 600 or more minutes. Alternatively a delay of an additional 1 20 20 60 60 100 100 200 or 200 to 10 fold Additionally not all of a patient s sensitivity to hypoglycemia needs to be restored or preserved e.g. 1 10 10 20 20 30 30 40 40 50 50 60 60 70 70 80 80 90 90 99 99 100 can be restored or prevented from loss. Hypoglycemic sensitivity or hypoglycemia unawareness can be based on the individual s ability to detect the occurrence of a hypoglycemic event. For example hypoglycemia unawareness can be an inability to detect 1 20 20 40 40 50 50 70 or more percent of the hypoglycemic events e.g. glucose levels fall below 50 mg dL in the blood . Alternatively the inability to detect a particular symptom of hypoglycemia can also be used to determine hypoglycemia unawareness and how successfully it is being treated. Signs and symptoms include for example shakiness dizziness sweating hunger headache irritability pale skin color sudden moodiness or behaviour changes clumsy or jerky movements difficulty paying attention confusion and a tingling sensation around the mouth. A description of various possible categories of hypoglycemia can be found in Defining and Reporting Hypoglycemia in Diabetes 28 1245 1249 2005 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In particular symptomatic asymptomatic and probably symptomatic hypoglycemia involve plasma glucose levels below or equal to 70 mg dl. As noted herein in some situations lower levels of blood glucose can also be used as a threshold.

In some embodiments the compositions described herein are provided in kit form. In one embodiment the kit comprises a vial of glucagon a vial of insulin a means for administration such as a syringe or pump and instructions for the administration of the glucagon and insulin. In some embodiments the glucagon and insulin are premixed in a single vial. In other embodiments the insulin and glucagon are premixed in a syringe. The particular instructions will vary depending upon the desired use of the kit e.g. for nocturnal control of hypoglycemia or otherwise. The instructions can be determined by one of skill in the art given the present disclosure and the particular use intended for the kit. In one embodiment the instructions will describe the methods disclosed herein.

Exemplary kits contain glucagon and one or more of the following packaged together 1 insulin 2 a solution e.g. excipient for resuspending or diluting glucagon 3 a device for administering glucagon and or insulin and 4 instructions. In one embodiment the device 3 contains the glucagon and or contains insulin.

A kit may comprise glucagon in a powder form within a sterile vial with a standard septum seal. In one embodiment the vial contains a mixture of 1 mg of lyophilized glucagon 49 mg lactose and hydrochloric acid to adjust the pH glucagon is soluble below pH 3 or above pH 9.5 . The kit also has a pre filled glycerine syringe which contains 12 mg ml of glycerine in a mixture of water and hydrochloric acid. A second container holds a 1 mg mL solution of insulin which may be stored in liquid form in a syringe. The kit further has instructions instructing the user to inject 1 mL of diluent from the pre filled glycerine syringe into the vial. The instructions then direct the user to collect an amount of the glucagon glycerine solution into the syringe containing the insulin. This amount will vary depending upon intended use and the particular user and may be determined by a physician.

In one embodiment the volume of glucagon collected in the syringe is between 0 5 of the volume of insulin to be injected. The kit may comprise tables and or charts allowing for ease of use and customization to determine what amount or ratios should be used for each user and situation.

The entire dose in the insulin syringe can then be injected children are typically administered 50 of a standard dose and the kit can be modified accordingly . In one embodiment the insulin syringe and the glycerine syringe are one and the same in which case the starting amount of glucagon is lower to maintain the appropriate ratio of glucagon to insulin that is injected. In another embodiment the insulin glucagon and glycerine are premixed in the kit. Instructions are adjusted accordingly for the particular embodiment used. In one embodiment the kit comprises a glucagon kit an insulin kit and instructions for how to combine the two kits. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art any of the above discussed compositions or methods may be included in the kit as components or instructions. Thus for example various methods of administration various compositions of insulin or glucagon and various buffers or solvents may be used in the kits. In one embodiment a means of administering insulin rapidly is combined with a means of administering glucagon more slowly. In one embodiment the kit comprises only a form of glucagon with a set of instructions.

In one embodiment the instructions can direct the user to administer more than 5 to 20 e.g. 6 to 16 ng kg min. of glucagon subcutaneously. In one embodiment the instructions will direct the user to administer 30 45 ng kg hour of glucagon. In one embodiment the units of glucagon are in 1500 ng and 2250 ng size doses for a 50 kg person one dose to be taken each hour. In another embodiment the units of glucagon are in 3000 to 4500 ng size doses for a 100 kg person one to be taken each hour. The kit can include a device for subcutaneous administration. In one embodiment the units of glucagon are in a 36 microgram size dose for a 50 kg person one dose to be taken each hour. In another embodiment the units of glucagon are in 24 to 96 or 36 to 96 microgram size doses for a 100 kg person one to be taken each hour. These subcutaneous values can be sufficient to create hyperglycemia in some diabetic patients thus in some embodiments less glucagon is required e.g. an amount similar to that to be administered intravenously 0.1 5 ng kg min. or higher. In some embodiments the kits include instructions regarding doses for the age weight and sex of the individual. In one embodiment the instructions include information concerning doses to take in view of future activities such as sleeping eating e.g. how much and what type of food sitting or exercising. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art an I.V. or s.c. dose equivalent can also be used if glucagon is to be administered in another manner. In some embodiments the kits contain unit doses of glucagon to be added with the insulin. For example a unit dose can be about 50 or 100 micrograms or milliunits which can be sufficient to protect a 100 kg subject for a one hour period from hypoglycemia. Unit doses can be prepared for 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 or more hours or days. Smaller doses for smaller people or fractional hours are also contemplated.

In one embodiment rather than providing a mixture of glucagon and insulin unit doses of glucagon alone are provided so as to be readily administrable to a subject as required to prevent insulin induced hypoglycemia. As the ratio of glucagon to insulin can be low the amount of glucagon in the unit dose can also be low. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the actual amount of glucagon in each dose will depend upon the characteristics of the individual possible activities that the individual is going to do or has done how the dose is to be administered and the form of the glucagon. Thus the doses described below are only representative of some of the possible doses. The dosage can be determined by the skilled practitioner in view of the present disclosure.

A unit dosage form of glucagon contains a discrete quantity of glucagon for administration and may be in the format of tablets capsules or powders in a container such as a vial or ampoule cartridge syringe inhaler transdermal patch or other container or package. The quantity of glucagon in a single unit dose form preparation is typically from 0.002 mg to 0.1 mg. However as will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the amount in each dose can vary based on the manner that the material is to be administered. The previous units are for I.V. administration. For s.c. administration the amount of glucagon in a unit dose can be for example from 0.002 mg to 0.2 mg or 0.036 mg to 0.4 mg for a 100 kg person which dose should be effective for at least 1 hour. Preferably the unit dose is between about 40 micrograms and 300 micrograms and more preferably between about 50 and 100 micrograms. Of course these numbers can be adjusted based on the size of the average person to be treated and the duration of hypoglycemia prevention desired per unit dose. For example with slow release formulations it can be particularly advantageous to include sufficient glucagon for release over 2 3 3 5 5 8 or more hours. Thus larger doses are possible in certain circumstances. Lower amounts even through s.c. administration can also be used to ensure that hyperglycemia does not even transiently occur.

A single unit dosage form contains sufficient glucagon for a single administration of glucagon as described herein. Unit dosages can be designed for particular events. For example they can be designed for use before or after the administration of insulin. Alternatively they can be designed for administration in view of activities such as eating or exercising or going to sleep. As the amount of glucagon to be administered will depend upon various factors of a patient such as lifestyle and weight the unit dose can be expressed in universal units for ease of adjusting the dose. Additionally how the unit is to be administered can also alter the amount of glucagon one places in each unit dose. These universal unit dosages are actually unit doses that are divided into smaller individual parts. Thus a 50 kg individual can take 5 parts of these universal unit doses while a 100 kg individual might take 10 parts. This allows greater customization of the glucagon intake. Of course lower amounts of glucagon e.g. similar to I.V. administration can also be used if lower levels of elevated blood sugar are satisfactory. Thus even for subcutaneous administration a unit dose can be between 0.036 mg and 0.2 mg or 0.002 mg and 0.2 mg for example.

In a related aspect a pharmaceutical preparation of glucagon in daily unit dosage form is provided. The daily dosage form contains sufficient glucagon for one day including the case in which glucagon is administered multiple times during a single day as described herein. For example there may be multiple e.g. 2 or 3 or more glucagon administrations after a meal or meals during the day see e.g. Example 1 and or administrations for prevention of nocturnal hypoglycemia or continuous administration via for example transdermal patch or pump . In one embodiment for example via I.V. administration 0.02 mg to 1 mg glucagon is provided in a container accompanied by instructions e.g. a label that the glucagon should be administered as separate doses over the course of a day. Usually the amount of glucagon is not more than about 0.04 U and is often not more than about 0.02 U not more than about 0.01 U not more than about 0.005 U and sometimes not more than about 0.002 U. In one embodiment the amount of glucagon given over one day is about 0.84 mg via I.V. or a dose equivalent for s.c. injection. For subcutaneous administration 960 to 4800 micrograms of glucagon can be provided for administration over a day. In one embodiment the glucagon is in a slow release form that is given all at once. In another embodiment it is in the form of for example 6 pills one to be taken every four hours.

In a related aspect a pharmaceutical preparation of glucagon in multiple dosage form is provided. A multiple dosage form of glucagon can contain a sufficient dose for administration for one two three four five or six days one week or even more than one week. In one embodiment for example 0.02 to 0.036 mg to 1 mg of glucagon is provided in a container accompanied by instructions e.g. a label that the glucagon should be administered as separate doses over the course of a day or more than one day.

In one embodiment a daily dose or multiple dose of glucagon is prepared by resuspending a powder in a liquid excipient and a portion of the resulting solution can be administered at each administration during the day or several days in the case of some multiple dose forms .

In addition to glucagon the unit dosage form daily dosage form or multiple dosage form can include other components such as excipients buffers stabilizers carriers and the like as well as other pharmaceutically active agents. In one embodiment as discussed above the unit dose includes insulin or an insulin secretagogue.

Multiple doses of glucagon e.g. multiple daily doses can be packaged together in a box bubble wrap or in other well known formats.

In general the dosage forms will be labeled or will be accompanied by instructions for proper dosing. For example the daily dosage form may be labeled to indicate the number and or weight or volume of unit doses in the container. The dosage forms may also be labeled or otherwise indicate the age of the patient for whom the preparation is intended. For example the dosage form may be indicated as suitable for adults children over 15 years of age children over 10 years of age children over 5 years of age and the like.

In one embodiment any of the above glucagon dosages may comprise a extended release glucagon. In such embodiments the dosage is appropriately adjusted as disclosed herein to maintain a blood glucose level within the desired ranges.

Administration of low doses of glucagon e.g. less than 0.01 U can be inconvenient using formulations prepared according to conventional methods e.g. resulting in an approximately 1 mg ml solution . Accordingly in some embodiments a lower concentration glucagon solution is made and or administered. Administration as used in this context includes self administration whether by injection by infusion using a pump or other methods and administration by another. In various embodiments glucagon is administered as a solution having a concentration of less than about 0.25 mg ml for example less than about 0.2 mg ml less than about 0.1 mg ml less than about 0.05 mg ml less than about 0.01 mg ml or even less than about 0.005 mg ml of glucagon. In an embodiment the concentration of glucagon is preferably at least about 0.001 mg ml. In another embodiment the concentration of glucagon is at least about 0.01 mg ml. Such amounts can be appropriate for I.V. administration and dose equivalent amounts can be created for other methods of administration. For example if the method of administration is s.c. injection then the concentration of glucagon can be higher at least about 0.01 mg ml or 0.05 mg ml or 0.2 mg ml 0.5 mg ml or between about 0.5 mg ml and 2 mg ml of glucagon. In some embodiments these doses are combined with a device that can administer the doses in low amounts over a prolonged period of time such as a pump.

In one embodiment a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation of glucagon contains a concentration of less than about 0.25 mg ml less than about 0.2 mg ml less than about 0.1 mg ml less than about 0.05 mg ml less than about 0.01 mg ml or even less than about 0.005 mg ml when it is to be administered I.V. or a dose equivalent amount for other methods of administration. For example for compositions that are to be administered subcutaneously a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation of glucagon contains between 0.5 and 2 mg ml of glucagon.

In a related embodiment a method of preparing a glucagon formulation for therapeutic use is provided and involves adding an aqueous solution to a composition comprising glucagon such as but not limited to a single unit dose daily dose or multiple doses of glucagon as described above in a quantity that results in a solution containing glucagon at a concentration of less than about 0.25 mg ml less than about 0.2 mg ml less than about 0.1 mg ml less than about 0.05 mg ml less than about 0.1 mg ml or even less than about 0.05 mg ml for I.V. administration. Concentrations 2 to 10 fold higher or more can be used for other methods of administration such as subcutaneous administration. The solution can contain other agents both pharmaceutically active and or inactive.

In one embodiment the glucagon solution is loaded into or is contained in a device for delivery to a patient. In some embodiments the device contains at least about 0.1 ml at least about 0.2 ml at least about 0.3 ml at least about 0.4 ml at least about 0.5 ml or more than 0.5 ml of a glucagon solution.

In a related aspect the further step of administration or self administration to a human subject with diabetes is provided. In one embodiment the subject does not exhibit symptoms of hypoglycemia. In one embodiment the human is an adult. In one embodiment the human is older than 10 years old and optionally older than 15 years old or older. In one embodiment the subject is not suffering from a stomach ailment.

In one embodiment any of the above glucagon solutions may comprise an extended release glucagon. In such embodiments the dosage is appropriately adjusted as disclosed herein to maintain a blood glucose level within the desired ranges described herein.

The methods and compositions disclosed herein may be used to treat human patients as well as other mammals e.g. rats mice pigs non human primates and others . In some embodiments the human patient is a child or juvenile in one embodiment the human patient is an adult. In some embodiments the patient is a Type I diabetic. In one embodiment the patient is a Type II diabetic. In one embodiment the patient is a brittle Type I or Type II diabetic. In one embodiment the non human mammal is an animal model for the study of diabetes e.g. Zucker diabetic fatty ZDF rats and db db mice.

While many of the examples and much of the description provided herein is explicitly directed to subcutaneous administration of low doses of glucagon other aspects are also disclosed. For example while the subcutaneous doses described herein are generally greater than 5 and less than 20 ng kg min. other doses are also contemplated for the various embodiments described herein. For example doses from 0.1 to 5 ng kg min. for I.V. or s.c. administration especially in combination with long acting forms of glucagon such as zinc protamine various kits and unit doses are contemplated along with the more than 5 to 20 or 30 ng kg min. doses. Additionally as pointed out below doses at 4 ng kg min. and lower of s.c. glucagon can also be effective in preventing or delaying hypoglycemia. Thus in some embodiments the dose administered subcutaneously to prevent or delay hypoglycemia is about 0.1 5 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 more than 5 5 6 6 8 8 12 12 16 16 20 or 20 30 ng kg min. Corresponding amounts for unit doses other doses for administration or kits are also contemplated. For example a 1 hour unit doses of glucagon for a 100 kg person at 4 ng kg min. would contain 24 micrograms of glucagon and a 1 hour pharmaceutical composition would contain 24 micrograms of glucagon and 1 3 units of insulin. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art any of the disclosed doses can be turned into one hour unit doses or other aspects described herein given the present disclosure. This can depend upon dose amount e.g. 0.1 to 30 ng kg min. or 6 to 16 ng kg min. presence and amount of insulin e.g. 0 or 2 20 Units the size of the patient e.g. 3 200 kg and the number of hours of desired effectiveness e.g. 0.5 24 or more .

The following examples describe illustrative embodiments of the invention and are not intended to be limiting in any manner.

The glucagon currently available in the North American market is human glucagon of rDNA origin produced either by Eli Lilly Co or Bedford Labs Novo . Four brand names are known Glucagon Diagnostic Kit Lilly Glucagon Emergency Kit Lilly Glucagon Emergency Kit for Low Blood Sugar Lilly and GLUCAGEN Bedford Labs .

Novo produces glucagon under its own name outside of North America. Novo produces its glucagon in yeast and Lilly produces its glucagon in . The following examples illustrate practice of some of the methods using such commercially available glucagons and insulins administered via a variety of routes.

The Lilly glucagon is typically provided in kit form. The glucagon within the kit is in the form of a powder within a sterile vial with a standard rubber sealed neck. The vial contains a mixture of 1 mg of lyophilized glucagon 49 mg lactose and hydrochloric acid to adjust the pH glucagon is soluble below pH 3 or above pH 9.5 . The patient injects 1 ml of diluent from a pre filled syringe which contains 12 mg ml of glycerine in a mixture of water and hydrochloric acid into the vial. The vial is shaken until the solution is clear. The liquid is returned to the syringe and the entire dose is injected children are typically administered 50 of the standard dose .

Glucagon is administered parenterally by subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous routes with the pharmacokinetic properties differing accordingly as understood by those of skill in the art. Maximum plasma concentration is achieved approximately 20 minutes after subcutaneous administration. The half life in vivo ranges from 8 to 18 minutes. Peak plasma concentration of approximately 8 ng ml are achieved after approximately 20 minutes and elevated glucose levels persist for approximately 1 hours after administration and begin rising almost immediately following administration. Patients with insulin induced coma will typically recover consciousness within 15 minutes of glucagon administration. Parenteral glucagon when given to treat hypoglycemia does so primarily by increasing serum glucose availability through increased output of glucose by the liver the conversion of glycogen to glucose and formation of new glucose by gluconeogenesis .

There are a wide variety of insulin dosage regimes in use. The regime used depends on whether Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes is being treated and on a large number of factors specific to the individual being treated. It is normal medical practice to replace insulin using a combination of parenterally administered insulins usually subcutaneously of rapid onset short acting duration LISPRO HUMALOG or ASPART NOVOLOG slower onset short acting duration regular human insulin intermediate duration NPH or LENTE long acting duration ULTRALENTE BASULIN Bristol Myers Squibb and 24 hour peak less duration GLARGINE LANTUS and DETEMIR .

The dosage regimes can be quite complex. For example a typical twice daily regimen might involve administering short acting and intermediate duration insulin before breakfast and supper. The insulin profile thus obtained has a number of peaks which roughly correspond to the anticipated post prandial glucose output as well as providing a basal insulin level throughout any 24 hour period. This is illustrated in which shows the idealized pharmacokinetics for a mixture of regular and intermediate acting insulin. The graph shows the effect of a twice daily insulin regimen Twice daily administration of regular solid lines and intermediate acting LENTE or NPH dashed lines insulins before breakfast and the evening meal provides peaks of insulin after the injections as well as a relatively constant baseline level of insulin throughout the day after injections of the intermediate acting insulins.

Insulin levels can vary significantly between individuals and even within the same individual depending on factors such as site and depth of injection local blood flow total volume and type of insulin injection and other factors appreciated by those of skill in the art. Thus there can be significant inter and intra patient variability in subcutaneous absorption of insulin which increases the likelihood of variations in serum glucose including the possibility of hypoglycemia.

With the advent of the rapid onset insulins and a long acting insulin with little or no peak appearance GLARGINE LANTUS also DETEMIR is a long acting insulin in development in addition ULTRALENTE is a long acting insulin but tends to have some peak effect in most patients it became possible to manage insulin levels and hence blood glucose levels with more accuracy. The basic methodology is to replace basal insulin and prandial insulin through the combined use of insulin preparations having different rates of onset and durations of action. This may involve the use of separately administered insulins of differing onset e.g. GLARGINE and LISPRO or the use of various pre mixed formulations e.g. 70 30 70 NPH and 30 regular combined which are commercially available for this purpose.

The point at which the glucagon is administered is before during or immediately prior to the period when insulin action is most unopposed for example when significant insulin action persists in the absence of sufficient serum glucose availability. Thus insulin induced hypoglycemia may occur whenever there is a mismatch between circulating insulin and glucose levels a relative excess of insulin effect to glucose availability .

For this illustrative example the patient all patients referred to herein are fictitious except for any reference to patients in the examples describing actual clinical testing any resemblance to an actual person is coincidental is an adult male 50 years of age weighing 75 kg with 5 L of blood suffering from type 2 diabetes and using insulin therapy without concomitant oral combination therapy . He has been using insulin for over 10 years and his glucagon response to hypoglycemia is minimal. H is insulin regimen involves basal insulin replacement using GLARGINE LANTUS subcutaneous injections at a dosage level of 20 units administered at bedtime in addition to prandial insulin injections of LISPRO HUMALOG ASPART NOVOLOG GLULISINE APIDRA of between 5 and 10 units depending on the amount of carbohydrate consumed administered at mealtimes.

His insulin profile is very simple being a flat line basal level set by the GLARGINE LANTUS punctuated by peaks corresponding to the prandial LISPRO HUMALOG ASPART NOVOLOG GLULISINE APIDRA insulin injections. This insulin profile is shown in . In this patient the risk of hypoglycemia typically arises between 2 and 5 hours after the meal. It is during this period that administering glucagon is most efficacious and effective in preventing the possibility of a hypoglycemic episode. In non diabetics glucagon usually falls following a carbohydrate meal in response to increased glucose levels and then recovers subsequently as glucose levels return to normal. In type 1 diabetics and type 2 diabetics of 5 years or more the glucagon response to low serum glucose is limited. Hence if insulin causes the serum glucose level to drop well below the basal level hypoglycemia will ensue.

Hypoglycemic symptoms are typically observed in diabetics at glucose levels less than 50 mg dl or sometimes less than 40 mg dl. In normal individuals glucagon release would be augmented by about 40 pg ml or higher e.g. augmented by about 60 pg ml or higher before glucose levels fell this low and would prevent the onset of hypoglycemic symptoms. However glucagon production or regulation is deficient in many insulin treated diabetics. Thus administering glucagon to achieve these levels during the period of susceptibility will prevent or attenuate the severity of hypoglycemic attack.

The s.c. dose of glucagon required to provide prophylaxis is in some embodiments about 6 20 ng kg min. for basal insulin levels and a proportionally higher amount for higher levels of insulin.

Thus in accordance with the methods this patient is administered 41 to 90 micrograms of glucagon subcutaneously after the meal. Two similar doses are administered hourly for an additional two hours. This makes three doses at hours 2 3 and 4 providing protection from hypoglycemia for 3 hours beginning 2 hours after the meal. With formulations comprising both insulin and glucagon one can use a lower percentage of glucagon 5.6 as the risk and degree of hypoglycemia is in part insulin dose dependent. In this example while the glucagon concentration from the dose administered 2 hours after the meal will have fallen back to approximately basal levels after an hour the elevation of blood glucose due to this dose will persist for more than one hour giving time for the second dose to take effect. The same pharmacokinetics applies to the third dose of glucagon. In an alternative embodiment two doses or even one dose of glucagon can be administered.

Although this example employs a simple basal and prandial insulin model it will be understood by those skilled in the art to be applicable to all currently practiced dosage regimens. The timing and frequency of the glucagon injections may be adjusted to match the period in which the patient is most susceptible to hypoglycemia i.e. the point at which insulin action and glucose availability are most mismatched.

A typical diabetic patient is an adult male 63 years of age weighing 75 kg suffering from Type 2 diabetes for 18 years and using combination insulin therapy without concomitant oral anti diabetic therapy . In the past he will typically have used oral anti diabetic medications including Glyburide and Glipizide but these will have been stopped and insulin started when his serum glucose levels were consistently above 250 mg dl. He will have been using insulin of one type or another for over 10 years and will have developed evidence of background retinopathy mild renal impairment with a serum creatinine of 1.9 mg dl and creatinine clearance of 60 ml min mild proteinuria bilateral distal symmetrical neuropathy in both feet and exertional angina. His insulin regimen would typically involve a split mixed regimen of subcutaneous NPH insulin 20 units before breakfast and 15 units before dinner which is intended to provide day long basal insulin coverage plus modest postprandial coverage for lunch and the evening meal and bedtime snack . In addition he injects regular insulin of between 6 and 10 units depending on the level of pre meal serum glucose as well as the size and carbohydrate content of the meal before these meals.

His insulin profile is similar to that shown in with less rapid peaks and slower decays resulting from the prandial injections of regular insulin and slower onset and delayed decay effects from the twice daily intermediate acting NPH insulin. His fasting glucose levels are typically well controlled in the range of 90 130 mg dl but his 1 2 hour postprandial glucose levels are suboptimal and generally range from 180 to 240 mg dl. Glycosylated hemoglobin is elevated at 7.9 normal range 4 6 . Efforts to increase his breakfast or evening meal dose of prandial regular insulin to reduce postprandial glucose levels is usually accompanied by frequent intermittent hypoglycemia of mild to moderate severity often 1 2 hours before lunch or several hours after dinner. These episodes of hypoglycemia can be quite severe and associated with symptoms of sweating tremors nausea and headaches particularly when he is late for meals. He has never had insulin induced hypoglycemic coma but is reluctant to increase his insulin dosage in case this happens. He fears that he could lose his driver s license if this occurs or perhaps his job as a night watchman. Because of this patient s long history of diabetes and presence of significant complications it is expected that he will exhibit impaired glucose counter regulation to hypoglycemia especially manifest as a blunted or absent glucagon response.

In this patient the risk of hypoglycemia is usually greatest between 3 and 5 hours after a meal late postprandial hypoglycemia when circulating insulin levels are still increased above fasting level but glucose availability from gastrointestinal absorption and liver production is minimal. It is during this period prior to the onset of hypoglycemia that the administration of glucagon would be most efficacious and effective in preventing the possibility of hypoglycemic episodes by increasing circulating glucose availability. In non diabetic individuals both insulin and glucagon are tightly regulated following a meal to balance glucose production and utilization so as to maintain normoglycemia. Should insulin effects become pronounced glucagon levels will rise to offset this hypoglycemic potential.

To prevent the development of hypoglycemia in accordance with one embodiment of a method this patient is administered 36 96 milliunits of glucagon administered subcutaneously optionally using Eli Lilly s Glucagon Emergency Kit as described above two to three hours after each meal. In one embodiment the glucagon is added when glucose measurements indicate glucose levels are approaching hypoglycemic levels. This administration provides the required protection between hours 3 and 5 as described above.

Although this illustrative example employs a simple basal and prandial insulin model it will be understood by those skilled in the art to be applicable to virtually all currently practiced insulin dosage regimens. The glucagon injections are optimally timed and vary depending on the insulin regimen used but are designed to achieve sustained glucagon levels during the expected periods of relatively unopposed insulin action.

In the current hypothetical example this situation tends to occur at several times throughout the day. For example hypoglycemia is prone to occur when the tail of injected regular insulin absorption combines with peaking insulin availability from the intermediate acting NPH. This situation occurs several hours after breakfast when serum glucose availability primarily from gut absorption and liver production is minimal or decreasing. Similar situations also often occur before dinner at bedtime and in the middle of the night. Thus for all insulin dosage regimens the timing of glucagon injection can vary depending upon the pharmacologic characteristics and timing of the insulin s used.

To offset the glucose raising potential of the administered glucagon the dose of insulin acting during that hypoglycemic period can be increased somewhat to maintain euglycemia. However the increased availability of glucagon provides a buffering action or cushion to the excessive glucose lowering action of insulin in those specific circumstances as described above and blunts or prevents hypoglycemia.

In this example the patient described in Example 1.A.i uses a pump to administer his insulin requirement. Instead of administering basal insulin by GLARGINE LANTUS once daily as in Example 1.A.i the patient s insulin pump is programmed to provide a continuous stream of rapid onset insulin e.g. LISPRO or ASPART . In this example he administers ASPART in doses of between 5 and 10 units at mealtimes according to the pre meal glucose level and the amount of carbohydrate and calories consumed. The patient will then in accordance with this method administer glucagon using Bedford Lab s GLUCAGEN product for example two hours after the meal and repeat the dose hourly for another two hours. This amount can be about 36 to 96 micrograms of glucagon delivered s.c. The glucagon is administered subcutaneously. This administration provides protection from hypoglycemia between hours 2 and 5 as described in Example 1.A.i. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the glucagon can also be administered via a pump. In an alternative example the amount of glucagon is scaled up per unit of insulin thus 36 96 micrograms are used per unit of insulin.

In this example the patient is a 62 year old lean Type 2 diabetic of 6 years duration. He was initially treated with Glyburide 20 mg twice daily and subsequently with the addition of Metformin 1 gram twice daily but fasting and postprandial blood glucoses were consistently in the range of 200 350 mg dl. He is advised by his physician that insulin is required. The oral anti diabetic medications are discontinued and GLARGINE LANTUS insulin 15 units is administered at bedtime to provide his day long basal insulin replacement needs. Postprandial insulin is administered by transdermal patch to provide 2 6 units of rapidly acting insulin patches available in 2 unit increments although this example refers to use of a patch those of skill in the art will appreciate that substantially similar methodology can be employed to practice the embodiment with insulin or glucagon delivered transdermally by other means such as creams or lotions . Alternately he is offered the 24 hour basal insulin replacement patch instead of once daily GLARGINE. The basal insulin replacement patch contains insulin in a unique formulation designed to provide steady continuous absorption and low constant serum insulin levels throughout the day. Because of persistent elevation of fasting plasma glucose his physician progressively increases his dose of GLARGINE insulin over 6 months to 24 units and transdermal patches to 4 10 units. With this increase in GLARGINE and transdermal insulin dosage fasting glucose levels ranged from 70 110 mg dl and 1 2 hour postprandial glucose levels from 130 180 mg dl within 3 months.

The patient applies the rapidly acting insulin patches 30 60 minutes prior to meals. This timing is chosen so that absorption of the meal coincides with insulin patch absorption kinetics and action. This patient has near normal glycemic control as indicated above but begins to suffer from early morning hypoglycemia typically at 1 or 2 a.m. At these times this hypothetical patient is frequently confused irritable and at times anxious. Several readings of finger stick glucose taken during these events reveal blood glucose values of 35 40 mg dl with prompt resolution of symptoms with ingestion of juice. In an effort to control these bouts of hyperglycemia his physician gradually decreases the evening dose of GLARGINE but this is associated with deterioration in glycemic control and primarily elevation of pre prandial glucose levels.

To restore near normal glycemia but prevent early morning hypoglycemic symptoms in accordance with some embodiments of the methods the physician increases the GLARGINE insulin back to 24 units at bedtime and prescribes administration of subcutaneous glucagon at 18 ng kg min. of intended protection using Bedford Labs Glucagon product immediately following the injection of GLARGINE at 23 00. The time of administration of glucagon depends primarily on the rate of absorption which is rapid reaching peak levels within 15 30 minutes and a duration of action of approximately 2 3 hours. In one embodiment plasma glucagon approximating high normal basal levels is maintained during this period and prevents an unopposed action of insulin from GLARGINE insulin or a delayed action of the early evening pre dinner patch. For example glucose levels of more than 120 160 mg dl are contemplated. In an alternative embodiment the low end of the normal glycemic levels are set as a goal for the blood glucose level. This therapy provides the required protection from hypoglycemia for approximately 3 hours after the GLARGINE injection as described above. With the addition of bedtime glucagon to his diabetes regimen the early morning hypoglycemic episodes should resolve and day long near normal glycemia be preserved. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art a s.c. or i.v. dose equivalent of glucagon can also be administered in the same manner as the insulin e.g. transdermally via patch or cream .

This example is similar to Example 1.A.i except the patient administers insulin by inhalation rather than by subcutaneous injection. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that similar methods apply when insulin is administered buccally nasally or sublingually in accordance with these methods although a dose equivalent amount will be applied. The patient will either continue to administer his basal need via GLARGINE LANTUS or he will utilize an insulin inhaler to administer basal insulin needs. The patient will administer his prandial insulin need equivalent to between 5 and 10 units administered by subcutaneous administration using his insulin inhaler either pulmonary nasally buccally or sublingually .

In accordance with these methods the patient will then subcutaneously administer 45 micrograms of glucagon optionally using Lilly s Glucagon kit two hours after the meal and another two doses hourly thereafter. He will administer the glucagon subcutaneously. This will provide the required protection from hypoglycemia between hours 2 and 5 as described in Example 1.A.i. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the glucagon can also be administered via inhalation in a dose equivalent amount. Alternatively a lesser amount of glucagon is administered for example 3 5 micrograms of glucagon for 0.5 to 2.0 units of insulin. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the precise amount of glucagon administered can vary and can be determined for various amounts of insulin via the method shown in Example 8 below.

In one method insulin can be administered by pump. There are a number of pumps commercially available or soon to be available in the US market and elsewhere that are suitable for use in the present methods. These include but are not limited to 

When both the insulin and the glucagon are to be administered by pump from separate reservoirs a number of configurations can be employed in the practice of the present method. Typical configurations are 

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that other configurations are possible and that the practice of the embodiments are not limited to the devices and device configurations listed above. For example implantable pumps may be used in almost exactly the same way as is achieved using external pumps.

Embodiment 1 above minimizes trauma to the patient on cannulization reduces cost simplifies infusions and minimizes complexity. With this embodiment the single pump can be programmed to deliver appropriate volumes from each reservoir each containing different concentrations of one of the two hormones. An example of such a pump is provided herein.

In a typical insulin pump the internal pump mechanism usually comprises an electromagnetically driven pulsatile pump having a solenoid operated piston mounted for reciprocation within a cylinder to draw medication from an internal storage chamber reservoir and to deliver such medication through the delivery line and then via a cannula or micro cannula to the patient.

Because delivery lines used with pump insulin are typically one half to one meter in length with lumen diameters of the order of 1 10th of a millimeter dead volume of the order of a 1 10th of a milliliter or about 10 IU of Insulin the time delay between a new drug reaching the body and the time at which the pump starts infusing it is likely to be substantial about half a day .

To reduce this delay one embodiment provides pumps with lines of much shorter length and or of very small internal lumen diameter that enable the lag time between a switch in drugs to be much shorter. The present embodiment also provides peristaltic type pumps acting on two delivery lines.

One embodiment provides a system comprising a pump and a set of four valves two immediately before and two immediately after the pump which when operated in pairs control which drug is pumped. The two lines are in one embodiment merged at the point of cannulization thereby eliminating the lag or dead volume time. The extra space required for the electronically actuated micro valves is minimal and adds little bulk or expense and can be assembled using commercially available devices. Additional possibilities involving the use of fewer than 4 valves are described below.

In one embodiment an economical pump system suitable for use in some of the methods is a micro pump known as MEMS Micro Electro Mechanical System being developed for diabetes by Debiotech under the brand name Chronojet. The use of two such micro pumps in a unitary device adds little bulk and only minimal expense to existing designs. As noted above the two delivery lines can be merged in the sense that the two drugs come into direct contact at the point at which they connect to the cannula or similar micro needle device used to puncture the skin and deliver the drug.

In one embodiment a single split lumen dual lumen line is used instead of two physically separate lines. This method has the advantage that the patient has only to route one flexible delivery line rather than two. Alternatively two standard lines physically adhered along their lengths can be used in accordance with some embodiments of the methods to achieve the same advantage.

In one embodiment therefore the pump is a currently used insulin pump modified to have two drug reservoirs instead of one each being independently administered by a single or dual pump and a single control system to manage the quantity and relative timing of administration of the two drugs. As noted above the device can in some embodiments comprise 1 2 or 4 valves and appropriate connective tubing. Schematics of devices that can be used in accordance with some of the methods are shown in and . In the insulin reservoir and the glucagon reservoir have lines in fluid communication with pump and then on to the cannula via split lumen delivery line by way of 4 valves and . When valves are open and valves are closed only insulin is pumped. When valves are closed and valves are open only glucagon is pumped. In this way a single pump may be used to deliver insulin or glucagon to the patient either simultaneously or separately with minimal mixing of the two substances by virtue of delivery through a split lumen delivery line in which the liquids only mix at the cannula i.e. the point of deliver. In the insulin reservoir and the glucagon reservoir have lines in fluid communication with pump and then on to the cannula via split lumen delivery line by way of 2 valves and . These are 2 way valves that allow either the insulin path or the glucagon path to be open but only one at a time. A small amount of mixing of the two fluids will take place in the small stretch of line through the pump but this will be an insignificant volume when compared to typical pumping volumes. In this way glucagon and insulin may be delivered to the patient with minimal mixing and dead space in the lines. The advantage of this construction over the construction described disclosed by is that only two valves are required for operation. In the configuration here is the same as that disclosed in but in this case the two valves and are combined into a single device with a unitary actuation mechanism. In this way the mechanism is kept as cheap and simple as possible with only one valve and one pump required to achieve the desired result.

It is normal practice with pumped insulin for the patient to set the pump to deliver a basal level of insulin and to intervene manually to administer prandial insulin as required.

In one embodiment the glucagon delivery is automatically administered over the appropriate period for example continuously between the 3rd and 5th hours following the manual instruction to deliver the prandial insulin . The control logic required to produce such a sequence of events can be programmed into the pump.

This example illustrates how some of the methods can be practiced using pump based administration. A typical hypothetical patient is an adult male 35 years of age weighing 75 kg having type 1 diabetes since the age of 15 and using insulin therapy from the time of diagnosis. He has been on a number of different insulin regimens previously with less than optimal glycemic control. In the last 5 years he has begun to develop significant background retinopathy mild renal insufficiency and hypertension and is concerned that these complications will continue to progress rapidly unless he is able to improve glycemic control from his current glycosylated hemoglobin level of 7.8 . Most recently he has been on ULTRALENTE 22 units at bedtime and LISPRO insulin 4 8 units just prior to each meal and snack. The dose of ULTRALENTE has been adjusted to provide basal replacement of insulin while the dose of prandial LISPRO varies depending upon the prevailing pre injection serum glucose and total calories and carbohydrate content of each meal.

Despite self monitoring of capillary blood glucose by glucometer 4 6 times per day his glycemic control is often erratic ranging from high values in the 200 mg dl range to occasional hypoglycemia. In the previous year he has had 3 bouts of severe hypoglycemia with coma or near coma two occurring while at work and the other following a game of handball. All required the assistance of others and in the post exercise case required the intramuscular injection of glucagon by paramedics.

With using insulin pump therapy short acting insulin is typically used because the pump provides a continuous feed to simulate basal insulin over the long term. In this example the patient uses ASPART NOVOLOG as his insulin of choice. The pump reservoir and control mechanism in this illustrative case the MEDTRONIC MINIMED PARADIGM INSULIN PUMP can be attached at various sites about the body of the patient most commonly on the belt for example and is linked by a flexible plastic tube to the micro cannula he has inserted in his abdomen thigh or arm women tend to place the infusion site in the lower abdomen while men usually choose the upper abdomen .

The patient has programmed the device to deliver 1 IU of insulin every 50 minutes 20 units a day . When the patient eats during the day he programs the device to release an amount of insulin between 3 and 8 units appropriate to his meal situation pre meal glucose total calories and carbohydrate content . He does this by pushing the appropriate buttons on the device or by use of a remote control device if available to select the size of the insulin bolus required.

Following use of the programmable insulin infusion pump the patient has been able to achieve a marked improvement of glycemic control with pre prandial glucose levels ranging from 70 110 mg dl postprandial 1 2 hour levels of 120 160 mg dl and glycosylated hemoglobin of 6.4 . However he continues to be plagued by frequent mild to moderate hypoglycemic episodes that he frequently doesn t recognize until he measures his fingerstick glucose. Many of these low glucose values are in the range of 30 40 mg dl. He has been told by his wife and friends that at times he behaves inappropriately but improves with ingestion of food or juice.

Because of the long duration of type 1 diabetes and frequent and often unrecognized hypoglycemia this patient has significant impairment of glucose counter regulation with absent glucagon and markedly blunted epinephrine response to hypoglycemia. That is he is unable to mount an effective response to abnormally low blood glucose and the attendant dangers that can result. Furthermore he has hypoglycemic unawareness which frequently accompanies recurrent hypoglycemia and increases the risk of severe hypoglycemia developing. He is unaware when his blood glucose is dangerously low because his body s mechanisms to recognize low blood glucose are defective. This is a common scenario in diabetes of long duration and manifests itself most commonly when efforts to achieve normal or near normal glycemic control are attempted in such individuals. Because of his concern about the increasing frequency and severity of his hypoglycemic episodes and his frequent inability to recognize them he is seriously considering loosening up his glycemic control to reduce the hypoglycemia. He understands that this may have detrimental consequences with increased microvascular complications but feels that the dangers of severe hypoglycemia are greater and more immediate.

This hypothetical patient has been striving to achieve the best glycemic control possible based on the understanding that the risk of developing microvascular complications is minimized so long as his day long glycemia approaches non diabetic levels. Despite being on the most advanced and flexible form of insulin delivery system currently available and having achieved significant improvement in glycemic control to recommended goals he is plagued by frequent and potentially dangerous bouts of hypoglycemia. To alleviate this situation yet allow him to maintain the same level of glycemic control the methods provided herein are used and in one embodiment a second pump device which can be identical to the first but has a glucagon cartridge in place of the insulin cartridge is employed. The device is independently cannulized and independently controlled for continuous subcutaneous infusion of glucagon when desired.

In one embodiment the patient is instructed to practice as follows. After taking a meal the patient administers his prandial insulin 3 8 units and at the same time programs his glucagon pump to administer about 162 g of glucagon per hour subcutaneously over three hours and timed to begin 2 3 hours after administration of his prandial insulin. In one embodiment the above instructions are included in a kit with a composition for the control of hypoglycemia. In this example unlike in Example 1.A.ii the continuous release of glucagon produces a smoother profile with less of a peaked appearance and decay period than with a single subcutaneous injection of glucagon. The increased availability of glucagon during this patient s period of greatest susceptibility to hypoglycemia substantially decreases both the likelihood and severity of such events. To offset the glucose raising potential of subcutaneous administered glucagon the dosage of infused insulin can be increased to maintain euglycemia during the period of glucagon administration. By administering glucagon in this way the patient is provided with sufficient glucagon to serve as a cushion or buffer to the unopposed action of insulin so as to prevent the risk of a hypoglycemic episode. Thus the administration of glucagon enables the patient to maintain good glycemic control without the excessive risk of frequent and severe hypoglycemia.

In one embodiment glucagon can be administered by pump and insulin administered parenterally including by pump or other subcutaneous administration. In one embodiment pumps suitable for insulin administration are also suitable for glucagon administration. Insulin can be administered parenterally as described in Example 1.A.i. Instead of injecting glucagon as described in Example 1.A.i however the pump is programmed or actuated to deliver glucagon continuously between hours 2 and 5 after the meal. The total dose of glucagon released is approximately 121 324 milliunits over those three hours this being sufficient to provide protection from hypoglycemia. Alternatively the amount of glucagon released is approximately 72 216 milliunits over those three hours this being sufficient to provide protection from hypoglycemia.

In one embodiment insulin can be administered transdermally. In accordance with Example 1.C the patient administers his insulin needs by use of transdermal patch or cream . Instead of administering the glucagon parenterally as described in that example however the patient uses an insulin pump containing not insulin but glucagon to administer glucagon to prevent hypoglycemia in the early morning. Before going to bed the patient programs his pump to deliver 50 120 milliunits of glucagon to be administered subcutaneously between the hours of 01 00 and 02 00 the period during which he is most susceptible to hypoglycemia. By so doing the patient is able to maintain euglycemia using the methods of the present embodiment without the risk of hypoglycemia occurring during his sleep.

In accordance with Example 1.A.i the patient administers insulin by inhalation rather than by subcutaneous injection. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that similar methods can be employed when insulin is administered buccally nasally or sublingually. The patient will either continue to administer his basal need via GLARGINE LANTUS or he will utilize an insulin inhaler to administer basal insulin needs. The patient will administer his prandial insulin need equivalent to between 5 and 10 units administered by subcutaneous administration using his insulin inhaler either pulmonary nasally buccally or sublingually . Instead of injecting glucagon as described in Example 1.A.i however an insulin pump containing glucagon rather than insulin is programmed or actuated to subcutaneously deliver glucagon continuously between hours 2 and 5 after the meal. The total dose of glucagon released is approximately 121 500 milliunits over those three hours this being sufficient to provide the patient with protection from hypoglycemia during his period of greatest susceptibility. Alternatively the amount of glucagon released is approximately 72 216 milliunits over three hours.

Some embodiments of the methods of the invention can also be practiced using pump based administration of an admixture of both insulin and glucagon. This method provides protection from hypoglycemia in direct proportion to the amount insulin used and with a built in delay. It also replaces basal levels of glucagon throughout the day and especially after meals as it will also be administered with the basal insulin administered by the pump. This embodiment can be practiced using standard pumps currently available and described in Example 2. One difference is that the insulin cartridges used will contain a mixture of insulin and glucagon optionally modified release glucagon with the glucagon component being between 32 96 or 41 96 mU to be administered each hour of desired protection prevention of hypoglycemia . In some embodiments the amount of glucagon administered subcutaneously can be about 0.1 ng kg min. of desired protection to about 20 ng kg min. 6 ng kg min. of desired protection to about 20 ng kg min. of desired protection and is in some embodiments 12 ng kg min.

The insulin glucagon mixture is then administered by pump for both basal and prandial insulin . The resulting glucagon modified glucagon plasma concentrations will map onto the insulin profile but with the attenuating characteristics of the glucagon variant used. This is illustrated in . This method will provide protection from hypoglycemia over the period of susceptibility as required. In one embodiment the pump is equipped with a glucose sensor see U.S. Pat. No. 5 474 552 .

The delivery of large molecules e.g. proteins orally is well known in the art. Typically this involves enteric administration see U.S. Pat. No. 5 641 515 . In one embodiment similar methods are used to deliver glucagon orally. In a typical scenario involving the oral delivery of a mixture of insulin and glucagon the patient takes an enteric tablet containing insulin appropriate to his prandial up to an hour before eating. The insulin component is designed for rapid onset once it begins release. The glucagon component is designed to release later than the insulin component in one embodiment by 2 3 hours. Optionally modified glucagon with a long half life can be used to ensure that glucagon levels are elevated over an extended period. Administered in this way the glucagon will be correctly and appropriately timed to prevent hypoglycemia. In another embodiment the patient administers his insulin using any of the methods described herein and administers a glucagon pill as required for example with each of his meals to prevent hypoglycemia.

This Example demonstrates one composition of one embodiment of the invention that was found to be useful for the storage of a glucagon and a method of one embodiment of the invention for verifying that the composition for storing glucagon provides the desired degree of stability for the glucagon. GlucaGen was mixed in 5 mannitol in Water For Injection at 200 g mL and 500 g mL in infusion pump cartridges. This solution was kept at 30 C. for set durations of time. Following the set durations the pH and remaining percent glucagon were tested. The percent of remaining glucagon was determined by HPLC analysis. The results are presented below in Table 2 for 200 g mL GlucaGen and Table 3 for 500 g mL GlucaGen . Results are from 3 sets of tests and the data is expressed as mean s.e.m.

All solutions at the time of preparation were clear and colorless. The solutions remained clear and colorless throughout the compatibility study. No visible particles were observed. Substantial amounts of glucagon remain in the mannitol solution even at high concentrations and for all of the time periods examined including 24 hours. Additionally the higher concentration of glucagon resulted in a higher relative percent of glucagon remaining. Thus it appears that this combination is sufficient for maintaining glucagon in solution for useful periods of time.

This example demonstrates a composition and one method of one embodiment of the invention by which such a composition can be analyzed to determine the lifetime of a glucagon solution experiencing active or wear use. Samples of Glucagon Infusate at 200 g mL and 500 g mL in 5 mannitol solution were prepared. An aliquot of approximately 3 mL of each Glucagon Infusate sample was added to an individual cartridge in triplicate. Cartridges were inverted 10 times and a 0.5 mL aliquot was removed from each as Time Zero for HPLC analysis. The filled cartridges were placed on a Platform Shaker set at 50 RPM and incubated at 30 C. for 24 hours. At 3 6 9 12 and 24 hours the cartridges were removed from the oven inverted 10 times and a 0.5 mL aliquot was dispensed from each for HPLC analysis. Appearance and pH were also recorded at each time point.

All solutions at the time of preparation were clear and colorless. The solutions remained clear and colorless throughout the stability study. No visible particles were observed. Additional results are presented in Tables 4 and 5.

With continuous shaking at 50 RPM GlucaGen in 5 mannitol at 200 g mL showed 25 glucagon loss after being stored at 30 C. for 12 hours and about 50 glucagon loss after being stored at 30 C. for 24 hour. GlucaGen in 5 mannitol at 500 g mL exhibited 7 loss over 24 hours. Thus even with lower concentrations of glucagon e.g. 200 g mL a substantial amount of glucagon remains in solution after extended periods of time. Furthermore it appears that the greater concentration of glucagon results in a more stable formulation even through active shaking of the formulation for 24 hours.

In one embodiment the glucagon or variant thereof is stored at high concentrations. High concentrations may be for example greater than 100 micrograms mL. In one embodiment high concentrations are more than 200 200 300 300 400 400 500 500 500 600 600 800 800 or more g mL glucagon up to the saturation or super saturation limit. In one embodiment less active forms of glucagon are stored at higher concentrations. This allows for greater stability of the glucagon solution and for one to administer a larger volume of glucagon solution to a recipient.

This example demonstrates the effectiveness of applying a low dose of glucagon to a patient via a particular route of administration to elevate the blood glucose level of the patient. This example describes clinical testing in which the level of glucagon required to increase glucagon and glucose blood levels was examined. As explained in more detail below the results show that the methods of some embodiments of the invention can be used to avert insulin induced hypoglycemia.

Six patients with Type 1 diabetes were stabilized overnight at blood glucose levels of 90 to 120 mg dl in a nocturnal titration period. Stabilization of blood glucose levels in this range of 90 to 120 mg dL was accomplished using insulin doses that generally varied between 0.65 to 1.4 units hour.

The following morning these patients were administered glucagon subcutaneously by continuous infusion pump over a range of 0.8 to 4.0 ng kg min. specific doses were 0.8 1.6 2.4 3.2 and 4.0 ng kg min of glucagon along with their usual doses of insulin. Each dose level within this range was infused for 2 to 3 hours. Under this lower range of doses 0.8 4.0 ng kg min. of glucagon there were no explicit consistent trends in the glucagon or glucose levels of the patients.

After undergoing a nocturnal titration period in which their blood glucose levels were maintained between 90 and 120 mg dl six patients were dosed with glucagon in a range of 8 to 16 ng kg min. Glucagon was administered subcutaneously by continuous infusion pump. The specific doses administered were 8 12 and 16 ng kg min each dose level was infused for 3 hours. Patients were maintained on their standard basal levels of insulin by continuous subcutaneous pump administration prior to the administration of the glucagon.

The 8 ng kg min. dose of glucagon did result in a significant rise in both glucose and glucagon approximately doubling the blood glucagon levels and resulting in an increase of approximately 40 for blood glucose levels. Thus a dose of 8 ng kg min. can elevate blood glucose levels in these patients. Moreover even those lower ranges tested while not sufficient for elevating blood glucose levels under these test conditions could be sufficient for preventing hypoglycemia induced through insulin administration in some patients.

In 3 patients an infusion of 12 ng kg min. of glucagon subcutaneously for 9 hours resulted in elevated plasma glucagon levels that were sustained for 6 to 8 hours in the range of 100 to 200 pg ml see . The peak mean plasma level at the 12 ng kg min. dose was 185 pg ml. The blood glucose level of the patients was also substantially elevated see . This clearly demonstrates that sustained very low doses of glucagon can be administered to patients effectively over a prolonged period of time with the desired result of controllably elevating blood glucose levels.

Two patients were treated with 16 ng kg min. of glucagon subcutaneously for 9 hours. In both subjects dosing with 16 ng kg min. resulted in higher peak plasma glucagon levels than were achieved on the 12 ng kg min. dose see . In both subjects the peak level was achieved during the first 3 hours of the infusion and then tended to decrease to levels seen at with the 12 ng kg min. dose. At the 16 ng kg min. dose level the peak mean plasma level was about 254 pg mL. Despite the decline in glucagon levels during the latter part of the infusion glucose levels remained elevated throughout the course of the infusion see . Glucose levels achieved at the 16 ng kg min. dose were generally higher than those achieved at the lower dose of 12 ng kg min. see .

Subjects described above were generally maintained on their basal rate of insulin throughout the fasting evaluation period. The insulin administered varied between patients and over time from 0.5 to 1.8 units of insulin per hour. Glucose levels began to rise as early as 30 minutes after the glucagon infusion was started. On average this rise was sustained throughout the glucagon infusion.

These results demonstrate that very low doses of continuously administered glucagon can be used to increase blood glucose levels in insulin treated patients not experiencing hypoglycemia.

These data confirmed that the administration of a dose of glucagon in the range of 8 to 16 ng kg min. yields an increase in the plasma glucagon levels in the range of about 100 to 200 pg mL and that these levels can be maintained over a substantial period of time. The normal reference range for glucagon is 50 to 150 pg mL. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art these results demonstrate that low continuous dosing of glucagon can elevate blood glucose levels in diabetic patients and so provides a means to prevent hypoglycemia in those patients. These results demonstrate the amount of glucagon required to induce elevated blood glucose levels. One of skill in the art will appreciate that lower glucagon doses may be used to prevent hypoglycemia in other patients but the doses of 8 ng kg min. and higher exemplified here are effective in preventing hypoglycemia. The actual minimal amount can vary between patients and given the present disclosure one of skill in the art can readily determine what the minimal amount can be for a particular patient.

Interestingly the levels achieved in the present example with VLD glucagon in amounts of 12 to 16 ng kg min are similar to the levels seen in non diabetics in response to conditions of experimentally induced hypoglycemia.

The following Example demonstrates how these doses of glucagon can prevent hypoglycemia even when there is an insulin challenge i.e. a dose of insulin that would otherwise induce hypoglycemia in the patient.

This example demonstrates that insulin induced hypoglycemia a blood glucose less than 50 mg dl for this example can be prevented with low doses of continuously administered glucagon. The study was arranged in three visits. The first visit involved increasing the amount of insulin administered to the subjects without supplying any glucagon the subjects blood glucose levels were monitored. This first study defined the insulin challenge needed to induce hypoglycemia in these patients. In the following two visits two different doses of glucagon were administered to the patients and the patients blood glucose levels monitored to determine whether the glucagon prevented or delayed any hypoglycemia that would have otherwise been induced by the insulin challenge. Thus by comparing the glucose levels measured in the first visit with those in the later two visits one is able to determine whether the glucagon prevented hypoglycemia.

During the first visit each subject s basal insulin rate was titrated upward in 50 increments every 90 minutes for example from a basal rate of 1.0 unit hour to 1.5 units per hour for 90 minutes to 2.0 for 90 minutes to 2.5 to induce hypoglycemia blood glucose less than 50 gm dl . The results for one patient are shown in with visit 1 represented by squares. The lower set of lines trace the increases or decrease of insulin administered to the subject. The insulin administered was returned to basal rate of infusion and glucose administered after 12 30 thus the spike after 12 30 is to be expected. Blood sugar levels were allowed to vary between 50 mg dL and 350 mg dL. Glucose levels lower than 50 mg dL were considered indicative of hypoglycemia.

During visits 2 and 3 subjects received a continuous infusion of various doses of glucagon starting at 7 00 a.m. and ending around 4 00 p.m. to determine whether that dose would avert the insulin induced hypoglycemia or delay the time to onset of hypoglycemia that was observed in the first visit. Because the onset of action on glucose levels is around 60 to 90 minutes the glucagon infusion was started one hour before the insulin infusion rate was stepped up.

Two different doses of glucagon were examined a dose at 8 ng kg min. triangles and a dose at 16 ng kg min. circles . The results of these low doses of continuous glucagon on blood glucose levels are shown in . As shown in the 8 ng kg min. dose of glucagon triangles maintained a higher level of blood glucose in the patient compared to the test in which no glucagon was administered. Again the control line no glucagon only increasing insulin squares effectively ended at 12 30 past this point on the graph no insulin was administered and thus the comparison should be made between 7 00 and 12 30. Hypoglycemia was delayed for approximately two hours.

As shown in the 16 ng kg min. dose circles maintained blood glucose levels substantially above the control level and even above the 8 ng kg min. triangles glucagon dose for a substantial period of time. Additionally while the 8 ng kg min. dose was able to prevent hypoglycemia and kept blood glucose levels above 50 mg dL the 16 ng kg min. dose maintained blood glucose levels closer to 100 mg dL. This indicates the effectiveness of both of these ranges as well as dose dependency.

The lines in the lower section of the graph i.e. triangle square and circle marked lines beneath the 50 mg dl line in represent the steps in insulin infusion over the time of the test. Thus the lower square marked line is indicative of insulin levels during visit 1 and the lower circle and triangle marked lines are indicative of insulin levels during visits 3 and 2 respectively.

In another patient the effect of the 8 ng kg min. dose was not as pronounced as that shown in . Thus this patient would require a higher dose or infusion rate to prevent hypoglycemia. This is demonstrated by the 16 ng kg min. dose data which demonstrated an effect similar to that shown in for the first patient i.e. elevated blood glucose levels above 200 mg dl.

In addition to the above glucagon levels tested the effectiveness of a lower level of glucagon was also tested using a similar protocol. In another patient examined the above experiment was repeated with a lower dose of glucagon 4.0 ng kg min. and a slightly lower upper limit of insulin 1.5 fold the basal rate of insulin . The results are displayed in . As can be seen in the graph while an increase in the BRI during a first visit diamonds resulted in lower blood glucose levels squares the administration of 4 ng kg min. of glucagon in a second visit asterisk helped to maintain elevated blood glucose levels X as well as delay the decrease in blood glucose levels even when insulin levels were increased circles . In this patient while the raised level of insulin would have otherwise induced hypoglycemia the presence of 4.0 ng kg min. of glucagon was sufficient to prevent hypoglycemia from occurring.

In addition to the above identified benefits of administering low doses of glucagon to prevent hypoglycemia there appears to be a prolonged benefit to this dosing schedule for subcutaneously administered glucagon. Blood glucose levels remained elevated even after the glucagon had ceased to be administered see the section of following 4 00 p.m. . Thus continuous administration of glucagon is not required to maintain an extended period of elevated blood glucose levels.

The above methodology can be used to determine the appropriate amount of glucagon to administer to a particular patient. For example testing patients who take greater amounts of insulin for example 2 10 10 20 20 30 or more units of insulin per hour in this fashion can be used to determine the appropriate dosing regimen for glucagon to prevent hypoglycemia. In the above example insulin amounts were increased by 1.5 to about 2.5 fold. In one embodiment one increases the amount of glucagon proportionally as one increases the amount of insulin and then determines via the above methodology if the new glucagon dose is correct to prevent hypoglycemia. In this fashion one can determine the appropriate dosage of glucagon for a particular patient. One of skill in the art will recognize that this relationship need not be 100 proportional and that some degree of routine experimentation can be useful in optimizing the final values. Additionally one can use the above example to determine a dosing schedule to see how frequently glucagon actually needs to be administered. In some embodiments rather than constant administration glucagon is administered only 99 90 90 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 10 10 1 percent or less of the time.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art variations in the method of administration e.g. patch inhalation topical creams I.V. etc. can also be examined using this methodology. Additionally as will be appreciated by one of skill in the art this methodology can be modified to determine the appropriate timing of the administration of glucagon to the patient. For example the glucagon can be administered 1 hour before the insulin level is adjusted and can be increased to 90 minutes or more or decreased to 45 minutes or less for example to determine if better control of glucose blood levels is maintained. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the time of administration and method of administration can influence the dose requirements. Additionally the importance of various additives can also be examined through the above methodology.

This example describes a clinical trial for demonstrating that glucagon administered in accordance with the present methods will function as desired in maintaining a desired blood glucose level. The method also provides means to determine the optimal ratio of insulin to glucagon for administration to a particular patient to prevent insulin induced hypoglycemia.

Subjects report in the evening and are fed a standard meal at approximately 1700 to 1800 hr. They are instructed to bolus their usual dose of insulin through their pump based on carbohydrate counting. At 2000 hr another pump Pump 2 is initiated on the contra lateral side of the abdomen with saline infused at the same rate as the insulin infusion. From approximately 2200 hr subjects fast and are on their usual basal dose of insulin through CSII. Plasma glucose is checked with a YSI throughout the night every hour or more frequently if necessary . The plasma glucose is maintained between approximately 100 and 125 mg dl through adjusting the basal insulin rate and if necessary with the use of IV 5 Dextrose if the plasma glucose decreases below 90 mg dl and IV Insulin if their plasma glucose increases above 160 mg dl .

From 0700 to 0800 hr baseline blood samples are drawn and tested for plasma glucose free fatty acids ketone bodies glucagon and insulin levels. At 0800 hr subjects receive two times their usual basal dose of insulin through their Insulin Pump 1 to induce controlled hypoglycemia. Through Animas Pump 2 they receive VLD glucagon on the opposite side of the abdomen. The dose of glucagon administered is individualized based on previous studies. The selected dose is the highest dose that does not cause hyperglycemia 180 mg dl in each individual study subject.

From 0800 to 1200 hr. blood is drawn every 5 to 10 minutes and YSI plasma glucose is determined. Blood is also drawn to measure free fatty acids ketone bodies glucagon and insulin levels every 15 30 minutes from 0800 to 1200 hr. Despite receiving a much higher than basal dose of insulin through CSII continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion the plasma glucose levels of the study subjects does not decrease to hypoglycemic levels 

By the above methodology one can also test various forms of glucagon formulations and methods of administration. Thus one can determine the optimal timing and mode of delivery for glucagon or a glucagon mimetic or variant or formulations of them. One can also use these methods to test the suitability of other hypoglycemic and hyperglycemic substances for the methods and compositions herein disclosed.

This example demonstrates one method for demonstrating that a composition for example of glucagon glucagon variants or formulations thereof is effective in preventing blunt insulin induced nocturnal hypoglycemia in humans. Additionally it provides a method for testing the effectiveness of a glucagon or variant or formulation of either for preventing nocturnal hypoglycemia.

Two hours 1800 h after a standardized dinner meal subjects receive twice their normal dose of insulin to induce the development of nocturnal hypoglycemia via a first pump. At 2200 h they receive an infusion of the glucagon via a second pump CSI . The blood glucose level is then monitored throughout the night. An adequate dose of glucagon prevents the blood glucose levels from decreasing to hypoglycemic levels. Both the glucagon and insulin can be administered subcutaneously.

To prevent loss of hypoglycemic awareness in a subject taking insulin one administers to that subject more than 5 to about 16 ng kg min of glucagon subcutaneously to the subject to prevent the blood glucose level from entering an undesirable hypoglycemic level e.g. less than 50 mg dL . To determine that the dose administered is sufficient blood glucose levels can be measured throughout various time points in a test period to ensure that the subject s glucose level does not drop below a certain point e.g. less than 50 mg dL . Such testing can also be used to optimize the dose of glucagon administered to the patient. The administration of glucagon is chronic i.e. through the preventive administration of a low dose of glucagon a patient will avoid hypoglycemia and so not develop hypoglycemic unawareness due to repeated hypoglycemic episodes through prolonged insulin use. Alternatively one can administer between 0.1 to about 20 ng kg min or 4.0 to about 16 ng kg min. of glucagon to the patient.

A patient suffering from a loss of hypoglycemic awareness can be identified by screening to determine if the patient can identify when his or her blood glucose levels have dropped below 70 mg dl of blood glucose. Once identified one then administers an appropriate dose in one embodiment that dose is 8 16 ng kg min. of glucagon subcutaneously to the subject to prevent the blood glucose level from declining to a level e.g. less than 50 mg dL .

Blood glucose levels can be taken throughout various time points to determine that the subject s glucose level has not dropped to a hypoglycemic point. These measurements can also be used to optimize the amount of glucagon administered to the patient. Through the administration of glucagon a patient will experience fewer hypoglycemic episodes and his or her awareness of hypoglycemia will improve. The subject s awareness of hypoglycemia can be tested as described above by determining if the subject can identify when his or her blood glucose level is below a certain point e.g. 70 mg dl .

Various doses various forms of formulations and various methods of application administration can all be tested using the above methodology to determine the optimal dosage or if a formulation or method of administration is optimal for the prevention of hypoglycemia.

The use of transdermal patches for the delivery of therapeutic drugs is increasingly more common. Patches provide a non invasive and easy method of delivering some drugs to the bloodstream. Nicotine and hormone replacement therapies are perhaps the best known uses of this technology. One of the characteristics of drug delivery by transdermal patch is that the rate of delivery is typically constant and persists for a long period of time as long as the patch is worn . This characteristic has proven beneficial in the area of pain management FENTANYL and nicotine replacement therapy in which long duration flat profiles are ideal. This characteristic makes the transdermal patch suitable for basal replacement of insulin or glucagon. See PCT patent publication No. WO0243566 incorporated herein by reference.

Fast acting patches are also known. The delivery of proteins insulin in particular transdermally into the bloodstream in well under an hour is reported in U.S. Pat. No. 5 707 641 incorporated herein by reference. The ability to deliver other proteins in the same way and using similar formulations is also recited. Glucagon can accordingly be administered in such a manner.

Development of insulin patches is currently being pursued by Helix BioPharma from Canada and IDEA in Germany where phase II trials are currently in progress. The IDEA technology TRANSFEROMEs is directed to the transport of large molecules such as peptides across the dermal barrier. illustrates the effect of molecular weight and lipophilicity on the rate of transdermal transport in case of permeation upper and lower gray curve for the more or less lipophilic substances respectively or of the TRANSFEROME mediated penetration black line and bullets . Gray bullets represent the commercial drugs in transdermal patches. Regardless of the technology the ability to efficiently transport peptides transdermally is proven and imminent. In particular both insulin and glucagon can be delivered transdermally thus providing some embodiments of the present invention that are practiced using transdermal patches and similar devices.

A variety of possible patch structures and matrices can be employed with the specific type selected according to the specific mode of use intended. For example one can employ two basic types of insulin matrix one for basal insulin replacement and one for prandial insulin replacement. Glucagon patches can be formulated to provide post prandial glucagon for protection from hypoglycemia or basal glucagon replacement. In one embodiment the invention can be practiced using patch matrices comprising combinations of these basic types either together in the same matrix or separately in sub matrices.

For prandial insulin matrices short acting insulins such as LISPRO HUMALOG ASPART NOVOLOG or GLULISINE APIDRA can be used. The prandial insulin matrix is typically applied at or at some time before mealtimes according to its rapidity of onset. A prandial insulin patch which minimizes the time to onset can be used so that the patch is applied near to mealtimes. The time to onset depends on the insulin concentration and the nature of the formulation. For example a simple wet matrix of insulin has slower onset than an insulin patch formulated according to U.S. Pat. No. 5 707 641. Monomeric insulin will act faster and be more easily absorbed than larger clusters of insulin molecules because molecular size impacts bioavailability from transdermal patches.

A number of different methods of managing the delivery of prandial insulin can be utilized. For example patches of different concentrations can be used for fixed periods of time and the concentration selected by the patient would depend on the amount of carbohydrate eaten. The duration for which the patch is worn could be fixed. The patch would not necessarily be exhausted on removal i.e. it could deliver a fixed concentration throughout its use. As another example single concentration prandial patches could be employed as follows. The time the patch is worn is varied according to the amount of carbohydrate eaten. The patch would not necessarily be exhausted on removal i.e. it could deliver a fixed concentration throughout its use.

As another example prandial patches containing fixed doses of insulin could be used. The advantage of a self exhausting patch is that failure to remove them does not of itself carry the risk of hypoglycemia. Such a patch would be substantially exhausted on removal and the rate of infusion would be front loaded. In one embodiment the prandial insulin patch used has a variable insulin concentration appropriate to the amount of carbohydrate consumed has a very rapid onset preferably immediate but not more than one hour is removed or deactivated after a fixed length of time preferably from between 3 and 5 hours and activated at or no longer than one hour before mealtimes. Prandial glucagon patches are applied at mealtimes or at some predetermined time after the meal according to the rapidity of onset associated with the patch. The rate of onset is determined both by the concentration of the glucagon used and the nature of the formulation used. For example a simple wet matrix of glucagon would be expected to have a slower onset than a glucagon patch formulated according to the techniques described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 707 641.

In one embodiment the glucagon patch is constructed so that peak output of glucagon is reached at some time between 2 and 5 hours after application. This patch is applied at mealtimes. The amount of glucagon in the patch will be an amount sufficient to deliver to the patient an amount equivalent to more than 5 30 ng kg min. and even more preferably 8 16 ng kg min. of glucagon administered subcutaneously. In some embodiments the amount of glucagon administered is between 0.1 30 ng kg min.

Other patch configurations can be employed and practice of the invention is not limited to the configurations described above.

 i Insulin Administered Transdermally Including Patch and Topical Cream and by Subcutaneous Injection

In this example only prandial insulin and prandial glucagon are administered by transdermal patch. This can be achieved in a variety of ways including i use of a single matrix of glucagon and insulin admixed ii use of a single compartment with two sub matrices one containing insulin and the other containing glucagon iii use of a single patch containing two compartments one containing insulin and the other containing glucagon both compartments being activated and deactivated simultaneously and iv use of two separate patches or two compartments in a unitary patch one containing insulin and the other containing glucagon each patch or compartment being independently activated and deactivated. Basal insulin is delivered parenterally as described in Example 1.A.i by subcutaneous injection of a long acting insulin such as GLARGINE or ULTRALENTE. In one embodiment method i is used. If different matrices are used to achieve the desired pharmacokinetics then method ii or iii can be used. If the timing of insulin onset and glucagon onset is not matched then method iv can be used.

In this illustrative example method ii above is used. The user activates the prandial patch at mealtimes or preferably within one hour before mealtimes thereby activating both sub matrices at the same time. If a fixed concentration patch is used the user removes the patch after a period of time proportionate to the amount of carbohydrate ingested. If a variable concentration patch is used then the user removes the patch after a fixed period of time typically between 1 and 3 hours after eating. In one embodiment fixed concentrations are used. In such an embodiment the amount of glucagon administered can be increased with the amount of insulin administered.

In this example both the insulin and glucagon are administered transdermally. Two different types of patch or independently actuated compartments can be employed. One patch or compartment contains a matrix designed to replace basal insulin over a 24 hour period. A single patch or compartment containing both the prandial insulin and glucagon in separate sub matrices with onset times appropriate to applying the prandial patch or activating the prandial compartment at or near mealtimes can be used.

In one embodiment a unitary device containing four independently actuable compartments is used one containing basal insulin which is activated on application and left active for 24 hours and the other 3 compartments containing the prandial insulin and glucagon in separate sub matrices within the same compartment each compartment being separately activated at mealtimes and deactivated at some time after the meal the time of activation being proportional to the amount of carbohydrate consumed.

On beginning a meal or at some time up to an hour before the meal the patient activates one of these prandial compartments e.g. by pulling away a hermetic plastic seal between the patch and the skin a process which initiates the transdermal infusion of the insulin and glucagon. At some later time a period in direct proportion to the amount of carbohydrate taken the prandial compartment is deactivated e.g. by replacing the barrier used to activate the compartment or the total removal of that compartment from the end of the patch . The insulin formulation in the insulin sub matrix is short acting insulin and the patch is designed for rapid onset. The glucagon formulation in glucagon sub matrix is designed to reach efficacious concentrations in the bloodstream between 1 and 3 hours after activation of the compartment hence providing protection from hypoglycemia at the appropriate part of the cycle as described in Example 13.A.i.

In an alternative embodiment a unitary device which allows for more than 3 meals a day may easily be devised by allowing for more than 3 prandial compartments. In an alternative embodiment as described above the prandial drugs may be contained in totally separate and independently actuated prandial patches. In an alternative embodiment the prandial patch may consist of separate insulin and glucagon compartments so that each may be independently activated and deactivated.

A unitary device containing separate and independently controlled compartments for insulin and glucagon could have 7 separate compartments one for basal insulin 3 for prandial insulin and 3 for prandial glucagon. The basal patch is designed to replace basal insulin worn for 24 hours before being replaced . The insulin used may be any insulin suitable for transdermal delivery. The basal insulin compartment may also optionally contain an amount of glucagon admixed or in a sub matrix sufficient to supply basal glucagon over each 24 hour period. This would have the beneficial effect of providing protection from hypoglycemia throughout the day and in particular during sleep.

The amount of glucagon in the patch can be an amount sufficient to deliver to the patient an amount equivalent to more than 5 30 ng kg min. of subcutaneously administered glucagon for example more than 6 20 ng kg min. and for another example 8 16 ng kg min. of glucagon. In other embodiments the amount administered is an amount equivalent to 0.1 to 30 ng kg min or 4.0 to 20 ng kg min. administered subcutaneously. Greater amounts of glucagon can be present when more than 0 3 Units of insulin are to be administered. For example a greater amount of glucagon can be present when 3 20 Units of insulin are to be applied in one hour. Alternatively the same amount of glucagon is present regardless of the amount of insulin.

In this example insulin is delivered by inhalation as described above. Inhalation can be the mode for delivery of only the prandial insulin delivery basal being delivered parenterally or all insulins used can be delivered by inhalation. The patient administers an amount of insulin appropriate to his or her meal by inhalation in one or more actuations . The patient can optionally increase the insulin after a meal as appropriate.

The glucagon is administered by patch as described in Example 13.A.i. The patch or set of glucagon compartments in a unitary patch is attached to the skin and the patch or sub compartment is activated at mealtimes. The patch is designed to have slow onset so that the glucagon is only present in the body in efficacious quantity after 2 hours. The patch is worn for 4 hours before being removed the residual glucagon in the body being sufficient to provide protection from hypoglycemia over the required period of 2 5 hours.

In one embodiment as described herein the glucagon in the patch is a long acting glucagon e.g. iodinated glucagon . The patch may then in some embodiments be worn for a shorter time while still ensuring that the protection afforded by the modified glucagon is provided over a period of 2 5 hours.

In another embodiment the user can apply the glucagon by means of a transdermal cream which acts similarly to a transdermal patch an amount equivalent to at least about 8 16 ng kg min. of glucagon administered subcutaneously can be administered through the cream . The formulation of such a cream can differ from the formulation used in a patch but perform essentially the same function. When glucagon is administered in this way it may be advantageous to encapsulate the glucagon in liposomes or TRANSFEROMEs to prevent the supply of glucagon drying on the skin and reducing bioavailability.

In accordance with Example 1.A.i the patient s insulin needs are met by parenteral administration. The glucagon is administered by patch as described in Example 13.A.i. The patch or set of glucagon compartments in a unitary patch is attached to the skin and the patch or sub compartment is activated at mealtimes. The patch is designed to have slow onset so that the glucagon is only present in the body in efficacious quantity after 2 hours. The patch is worn for 4 hours before being removed the residual glucagon in the body being sufficient to provide protection from hypoglycemia over the required period of 2 5 hours.

In one embodiment as described herein the glucagon in the patch is a long acting glucagon e.g. iodinated glucagon . The patch may then be worn for a shorter time while still ensuring that the protection afforded by the modified glucagon is provided over the required period of 2 5 hours.

In an alternative embodiment the user may apply the glucagon by means of a transdermal cream which acts similarly to a transdermal patch. The formulation of such a cream can differ from the formulation used in a patch but performs essentially the same function. When glucagon is administered in this way it may be advantageous to encapsulate the glucagon in liposomes or TRANSFEROMEs to prevent the glucagon from drying on the skin and reducing bioavailability.

In this example the patient s insulin needs are administered by pump as described in Example 2. The glucagon is administered by patch as described in Example 13.A.i. The patch or set of glucagon compartments in a unitary patch is attached to the skin and the patch or sub compartment is activated at mealtimes. The patch is designed to have slow onset so that the glucagon is only present in the body in efficacious quantity after 2 hours. The patch is worn for 4 hours before being removed the residual glucagon in the body being sufficient to provide protection from hypoglycemia over the required period of 2 5 hours.

In one embodiment the glucagon in the patch is a long acting glucagon e.g. iodinated glucagon . The patch may then be worn for a shorter time while still ensuring that the protection afforded by the modified glucagon is provided over the required period of 2 5 hours.

In an alternative embodiment the user may apply the glucagon by means of a transdermal cream which acts similarly to a transdermal patch. The formulation of such a cream may differ from the formulation used in a patch but performs essentially the same function. When glucagon is administered in this way it may be advantageous to encapsulate the glucagon in liposomes or TRANSFEROMEs to prevent the glucagon from drying on the skin and reducing bioavailability.

A number of dry powder inhalation technologies are currently in development including Aradigm s AERx Inhale Therapeutics Exubera Alkermes and Eli Lilly s AIR Insulin Technospheres Mannkind PDC and Aerogen s and Disetronic s Aerodose. Methods and devices for delivering insulin to the pulmonary alveoli where it may be absorbed into the blood stream are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 997 848 6 131 567 6 024 090 5 970 973 5 672 581 5 660 166 5 404 871 and 5 450 336. The main difficulties that had to be overcome to enable aerosol macromolecular delivery were low system efficiency bioavailability low drug mass per inhalation c.f. asthma and poor dosing reproducibility.

One relevant factor is efficiency bio availability . Bioavailability depends primarily on the aerosol particle size most existing systems only deliver 10 20 of the drug administered to the alveoli rather than on the nature of the drug being administered. When the drug being delivered actually reaches the alveoli its bioavailability is then very high almost regardless of the drug in question. Because the technical problems and solutions associated with delivering insulin are similar to those for delivering glucagon the solutions enabling delivery of insulin are directly applicable to similarly sized macromolecules like glucagon. One embodiment provides dry powdered formulations prepared by admixing insulin and glucagon. The use of inhalers for delivering insulin is primarily aimed at supplying rapid insulins for prandial purposes. Long acting insulins can be delivered by inhalation if desired.

Some embodiments can be practiced using inhalers in a number of ways including with insulin and glucagon in separate inhalers with insulin and glucagon admixed in a fixed ratio in an inhaler with a dual chamber inhaler in which insulin and glucagon are administered separately and with dual chamber inhalers in which insulin and glucagon are administered simultaneously. Because prandial inhalers typically contain rapid acting insulins they are unsuitable in the way that insulin pumps are for the delivery of basal insulin. A separate pump or chamber can be provided if both prandial and basal insulins are to be delivered by inhalation.

The hypothetical patient administers basal insulin using ULTRALENTE by subcutaneous injections at a dosage level of 20 units administered at bedtime. Alternatively he may choose to administer the same drug in a dose that would provide a daily bioavailability of 20 units by inhalation. It may also be beneficial or desirable for him to administer the basal dose by inhaler at a number of times during the day for example at mealtimes in addition to bedtime. Because there is a slight delay approximately 20 minutes before insulin attains significant serum concentration when compared to subcutaneous delivery the user will administer his prandial insulin requirement approximately 20 minutes before eating. He does this by administering between 25 and 50 units assuming a bioavailability of approximately 20 of insulin by means of a metered dose inhaler.

The inhaler may be dose alterable see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 970 973 5 672 581 5 660 166 5 404 871 and 5 450 336 or similar to currently used asthmatic devices which deliver fixed and preset doses on each actuation. Whichever type is used it may be desirable to administer the insulin in multiple actuations. By so doing the patient can tailor his intake according to the amount of carbohydrate he actually consumes rather than the amount he expects to eat by topping up his dose at some time after beginning the meal. Furthermore the more actuations used to administer the insulin the better the corresponding dose reliability reproducibility because inhalation administration tends to vary from actuation to actuation and multiple actuation delivery has an averaging or smoothing effect.

To prevent hypoglycemia associated with using inhaled insulin from occurring between 2 and 5 hours after eating a glucagon inhaler is used to administer a s.c. dose equivalent of more than 5 to 16 ng kg min. of glucagon administered through inhalation between hours 2 and 5 following the meal. In one embodiment different inhalers for each type of insulin and for glucagon are used. In one embodiment a unitary inhaler with at least 2 drug chambers for prandial insulin glucagon and or optionally basal insulin and capable of independent actuation is used.

In accordance with Example 1.A.i the patient administers his basal and prandial insulin parenterally. Because the risk of hypoglycemia associated with using LISPRO insulin typically occurs between 2 and 5 hours after eating the glucagon inhaler is used to administer a s.c. dose equivalent of 6 to 16 ng kg min. i.e. an amount through inhalation to get the same effect on blood glucose as though 6 16 ng kg min. of glucagon administered subcutaneously between hours 2 and 5 following the meal. Alternatively a modified glucagon of long acting duration e.g. iodinated glucagon with delayed onset is used in the glucagon inhaler and administered at mealtimes with the prandial insulin.

In accordance with Example 2.A basal and prandial insulin are delivered by pump. The risk of hypoglycemia arises after 2 to 3 hours and so the patient administers glucagon by inhaler 2 hours after eating. He administers one puff from a metered dose inhaler at hours 2 3 and 4 thus providing protection during the period of susceptibility. The dose per actuation corresponds to a s.c. dose equivalent amount of more than 5 to 16 ng kg min. of glucagon. Alternatively a modified glucagon of long acting duration e.g. iodinated glucagon with delayed onset is used in the glucagon inhaler and administered at mealtimes with the prandial insulin.

In accordance with Example 3.A.ii the patient administers his insulin both basal and prandial by transdermal patch or by topical cream. The risk of hypoglycemia arises after 2 to 3 hours and so the patient administers glucagon by inhaler 2 hours after eating. He administers one puff from a metered dose inhaler at hours 2 3 and 4 thus providing protection during the period of susceptibility. The dose per actuation corresponds to a s.c. dose equivalent amount of more than 5 to 16 ng kg min. glucagon. Alternatively a modified glucagon of long acting duration e.g. iodinated glucagon with delayed onset is used in the glucagon inhaler and administered at mealtimes with the prandial insulin.

In Example 1 the insulin and glucagon were administered parenterally and separately. In one embodiment the two drugs are administered simultaneously in admixed form. Insulin and glucagon may be admixed with little if any interaction or degradation of either product. In non diabetics it is typically found that following the increased insulin output after a meal of carbohydrate there is an associated increase in glucagon output actually a restoration of output following the initial depression of glucagon output due to the initial gut induced rise in blood glucose after the ingestion of carbohydrate . This pattern of insulin production followed by glucagon production assumes a relatively fixed relationship.

To ensure that the glucagon provides protection over the period required one can increase the amount of the glucagon component in the admixture so that it is present in the required concentrations when desired to prevent hypoglycemia between 2 and 5 hours after the meal in a s.c. dose equivalent of more than 5 to 30 ng kg min. and preferably 8 16 ng kg min. or one can use a glucagon formulation with delayed onset. In one embodiment the formulation of glucagon has both a delayed release and an extended release e.g. delayed by 2 to 3 hours and releasing over approximately 3 hours . For example any of the formulations discussed herein may be used.

In this example an iodination method of increasing half life as described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 897 551 see form I3G is employed. The LISPRO insulin and I3Glucagon are admixed so that the modified glucagon is present at approximately 1.5 by weight of the insulin in the mixture keeping the concentration of insulin per ml in our LISPRO formulation constant . Because of the longer lasting effect of the modified glucagon a smaller proportion of glucagon to insulin by weight will be required.

The hypothetical patient then administers between 5 and 10 units measured in terms of the insulin contained therein of the insulin glucagon formulation at mealtimes in the standard way. In so doing he administers a s.c. dose equivalent of more than 5 to up to 16 ng kg min. of modified glucagon. Given the longer action of the modified glucagon this provides assuming the modified glucagon has for example twice the effect on glucose levels compared to standard glucagon the same protection as described in Example 1.A. The glucagon so administered will be efficacious continuously between hours 2 and 5 as required.

In this example both the insulin and glucagon are administered by transdermal delivery. The prandial insulin and glucagon are admixed in the same matrix or cream. Two different types of patch or independently actuated compartments can be employed. One patch or compartment will contain a matrix designed to replace basal insulin over a 24 hour period. This patch can contain an amount of glucagon so that a s.c. dose equivalent of more than 5 to up to 20 ng kg min. of glucagon is delivered to the patient. The other patch or independently controlled compartment provides prandial glucagon and insulin in a single matrix. The onset times of the glucagon and insulin are matched so that when the patch is actuated insulin reaches efficacious plasma levels very quickly whereas the glucagon only reaches efficacious levels after 2 3 hours. The patch is applied at mealtimes and preferably no more than one hour before the meal.

In one embodiment a unitary device containing four independently actuable compartments is used one containing basal insulin which is activated on application and left active for 24 hours and the other 3 compartments containing the prandial insulin and glucagon in the same matrix each compartment being separately activated at or near mealtimes and deactivated at some time after the meal the time of activation being proportional to the amount of carbohydrate consumed. On beginning a meal or up to an hour before the meal the patient activates one of these prandial compartments e.g. by pulling away a hermetic plastic seal between the patch and the skin a process which initiates the transdermal infusion of the admixed insulin and glucagon. At some later time a period in direct proportion to the amount of carbohydrate taken the prandial compartment is deactivated e.g. by replacing the barrier used to activate the compartment or the total removal of that compartment from the end of the patch .

The combined insulin and glucagon formulation in the prandial compartment contains short acting insulin and the patch is designed for rapid onset of the insulin. The glucagon component is designed to reach efficacious concentrations in the bloodstream between 1 and 3 hours after activation of the compartment hence providing protection from hypoglycemia at the appropriate part of the cycle.

In an alternative embodiment a unitary device which allows for more than 3 meals a day can be used and contains more than 3 prandial compartments. The basal patch is designed to replace basal insulin worn for 24 hours before being replaced . The insulin used may be any insulin suitable for transdermal delivery. It may be advantageous to use intermediate duration insulin in preference to short acting insulin so that any variation in insulin absorption over the lifetime of the patch would be minimized by the relatively long lifetimes of the insulin involved. The basal insulin compartment may also optionally contain an amount of glucagon admixed sufficient to supply basal glucagon over each 24 hour period. This would have the beneficial effect of providing protection from hypoglycemia throughout the day and in particular during sleep.

The present embodiment provides methods and pharmaceutical formulations for delivery of glucagon admixed with insulin by inhalation. In this example a long acting glucagon such as for example iodinated glucagon as described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 897 551 e.g. I2G or a zinc protamine glucagon is admixed with LISPRO insulin and delivered by a typical insulin inhaler e.g. as disclosed in patent U.S. Pat. No. 5 970 973 . Basal insulin may be delivered in the standard way by subcutaneous injection as described in Example 1A or it may be delivered by inhaler. Glucagon may optionally be included in this formulation in an extended release formulation if desired to provide basal glucagon replacement.

The insulin powder used is admixed with the modified glucagon so that the modified glucagon content is a s.c. dose equivalent of more than 5 to 20 ng kg min. and more preferably between 8 and 16 ng kg min. for 1 3 units of insulin used. Proportionally larger amounts of glucagon can be used when larger amounts of insulin are used although the amount of glucagon can stay constant regardless of the amount of insulin used . The amount can be adjusted as need in light of the results from the previous examples for this particular embodiment. The patient will administer the combined insulin and glucagon at mealtimes to provide systemic insulin equivalent to between 5 and 10 units.

Although the present invention has been described in detail with reference to specific embodiments those of skill in the art will recognize that modifications and improvements are within the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. All publications and patent documents cited herein are incorporated herein by reference as if each such publication or document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by reference. Citation of publications and patent documents is not intended as an admission that any such document is pertinent prior art nor does it constitute any admission as to the contents or date of the same. Definitions provided herein control over definitions found in the cited references or elsewhere. The invention having now been described by way of written description and example those of skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced in a variety of embodiments and that the foregoing description and examples are for purposes of illustration and not limitation of the following claims.

