---

title: Block copolymer blend adhesives with multiple tackifiers
abstract: Pressure sensitive adhesives comprising a linear block copolymer having a rubbery block and at least one glassy block; a multi-arm block copolymer having at least three arms, each having both a rubbery block and a glassy block; a first high glass transition temperature tackifier compatible with the rubbery blocks; a second high glass transition temperature tackifier having compatible with the glassy blocks; and at least one of a low Tg tackifier, a plasticizer, and combinations thereof, are disclosed. Tapes that include such adhesive, methods of making such tapes, and bonded composites using such adhesives and tapes are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09458359&OS=09458359&RS=09458359
owner: 3M Innovative Properties Company
number: 09458359
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071115
---
This application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT US2007 084833 filed Nov. 15 2007 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 868 972 filed Dec. 7 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

The present disclosure relates to block copolymer based adhesives. Particularly pressure sensitive adhesives including a blend of block copolymers and two or more high glass transition temperature tackifiers.

Adhesives and tapes are commonly used to bond two substrates together to form a bonded composite. While a vast array of adhesives and tapes are available advances in substrates and end use requirements continues to drive a need for new adhesive formulations and tape constructions. In addition to performance properties environmental regulations and processing costs also influence product formulation requirements. For example in some applications it may be desirable to use a hot melt adhesive rather than a solvent based adhesive.

While some efforts are directed at the identification and development of new materials for use in adhesive formulations much progress can still be made by identifying selecting and combining the proper proportions of existing raw materials to arrive at useful adhesives and tapes.

Briefly in one aspect the present disclosure provides a pressure sensitive adhesive comprising a linear block copolymer and a multi arm block copolymer. The linear block copolymer comprises a rubbery block R and at least one glassy block G. The multi arm block copolymer is of the formula Q Y wherein Q represents an arm of the multi arm block copolymer n represents the number of arms and is a whole number of at least 3 Y is the residue of a multifunctional coupling agent. Each arm Q independently has the formula G R wherein G is a glassy block and R is a rubbery block.

The pressure sensitive adhesives according to this aspect of the present disclosure also include a first high Tg tackifier a second high Tg tackifier and an additional component. The first high Tg tackifier has a Tg of at least 60 degrees C. and is primarily compatible with the rubbery blocks. The second high Tg tackifier also has a Tg of at least 60 degrees C. but is primarily compatible with the glassy blocks. The additional component may be selected a low Tg tackifier a plasticizer or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a rubbery block comprises a polymerized conjugated diene a hydrogenated derivative of a polymerized conjugated diene or combinations thereof. In some embodiments each of the rubbery blocks comprises a polymerized conjugated diene a hydrogenated derivative of a polymerized conjugated diene or combinations thereof. In some embodiments a conjugated diene is selected from the group consisting of isoprene butadiene ethylene butadiene copolymers and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a glassy block comprises polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomers. In some embodiments the monovinyl aromatic monomer is selected from the group consisting of styrene styrene compatible blends and combinations thereof. In some embodiments at least one of the glassy polymer segments is selected from the group consisting of styrene styrene compatible blends and combinations thereof and in some embodiments each of the glassy polymer segments is selected from the group consisting of styrene styrene compatible blends and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the linear block copolymer comprises two glassy blocks. In some embodiments the linear block copolymer is selected from the group consisting of styrene isoprene styrene styrene butadiene styrene styrene ethylene butadiene styrene and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the multi arm block copolymer is a star block copolymer. In some embodiments the multi arm block copolymer is a polymodal asymmetric star block copolymer. In some embodiments n is a whole number for 3 to 5 inclusive and in some embodiments n is 4.

In some embodiments the Tg of the first high Tg tackifier is at least 65 degrees C. In some embodiments the first high Tg tackifier has a softening point of at least about 115 degrees C. and in some embodiments at least about 120 degrees C. In some embodiments the first high Tg tackifier is selected from the group consisting of polymeric terpenes hetero functional terpenes coumarone indene resins rosin acids esters of rosin acids disproportionated rosin acid esters hydrogenated rosin acids C8 C10 aromatics partially hydrogenated C8 C10 aromatics fully hydrogenated C8 C10 aromatics C5 C9 aromatic modified aliphatics and blends thereof.

In some embodiments the Tg of the second high Tg tackifier is at least 65 degrees C. In some embodiments the second high Tg tackifier has a softening point of at least about 115 degrees C. and in some embodiments at least about 120 degrees C. Exemplary tackifiers that are primarily compatible with the glassy blocks include coumarone indene resins rosin acids esters of rosin acids disproportionated rosin acid esters C9 aromatics alpha methyl styrene C9 C5 aromatic modified aliphatic hydrocarbons and blends thereof.

In some embodiments the component is selected from the group consisting of polybutene resins. In some embodiments the component is selected from the group consisting of naphthenic oils liquid polybutene resins polyisobutylene resins and liquid isoprene polymers.

In some embodiments the pressure sensitive adhesive is a hot melt adhesive. In some embodiments the pressure sensitive adhesive is a solvent based adhesive.

In some embodiments the ratio of the total weight of all multi arm block polymers to the total weight of all linear block copolymers is no greater than 5.7 1 no greater than 4 1 or even no greater than 3 1. In some embodiments this ratio is no less than 1.5 1 no less than 1.8 1 or even no less than 2 1. In some embodiments this ratio ranges from 5.7 1 to 1.5 1 optionally from 4 1 to 1.8 1 optionally from 3 1 to 2 1.

In some embodiments the ratio of the total weight of all block copolymers to the total weight of all high Tg tackifiers is no greater than 1.2 1 no greater than 1.15 1 or even no greater than 1.1 1. In some embodiments this ratio is no less than 1 1.2 no less than 1 1.15 or even no less than 1 1.1. In some embodiments this ratio ranges from 1.2 1 to 1 1.2 optionally from 1.15 1 to 1 1.15 optionally from 1.1 1 to 1 1.1.

In some embodiments the ratio of the total weight of high Tg tackifier s that are primarily compatible with the rubbery blocks to the total weight of the high Tg tackifier s that are primarily compatible with the glassy blocks is no greater than 9 1 no greater than 4 1 or even no greater than 3 1. In some embodiments this ratio is no less than 0.67 1 no less than 1 1 or even no less than 1.85 1. In some embodiments this ratio ranges from 9 1 to 0.67 1 optionally from 4 1 to 1 1 optionally from 3 1 to 1.85 1.

In some embodiments the total amount of low Tg tackifiers plasticizers and combinations thereof expressed as a percent by weight wt. based on the total weight of the linear block copolymer the multi arm lock copolymer the first high Tg tackifier the second high Tg tackifier and the components selected from the group consisting of low Tg tackifiers plasticizers and combinations thereof is no greater than 10 wt. no greater than 8 wt. or even no greater than 7 wt. . In some embodiments the total amount of these components is selected from the group consisting of no less than 2 wt no less than 4 wt and no less than 5 wt . In some embodiments the total amount of these components ranges from 2 to 10 wt optionally from 4 to 8 wt optionally from 5 to 7 wt .

In another aspect the present disclosure provides a tape comprising a foam backing having a first major surface and a second major surface. A first adhesive skin is bonded to the first major surface. The first adhesive skin comprises a first pressure sensitive adhesive as described herein.

In some embodiments the tape comprises a second adhesive skin bonded to the second major surface. In some embodiments the first pressure sensitive adhesive and the second adhesive are the same adhesive. In some embodiments the second adhesive is a pressure sensitive adhesive as described herein.

In some embodiments the foam backing comprises a thermoplastic foam. In some embodiments the foam backing comprises a thermoset foam. In some embodiments the foam backing comprises an acrylic foam.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides methods for making a tape comprising a foam backing. In some embodiments the method comprises extruding the foam backing and coextruding the first pressure sensitive adhesive to form the first adhesive skin bonded to the first major surface of the foam backing. In some embodiments the method further comprises extruding the second adhesive to form a second adhesive skin bonded to the second major surface of the foam backing. In some embodiments two or more of the foam the first pressure sensitive adhesive and the second adhesive are co extruded.

In some embodiments the method comprises providing the foam backing and applying a first adhesive composition comprising the first pressure sensitive adhesive to the first surface of the foam backing e.g. by laminating or coating. In some embodiments the method further comprising applying a second adhesive composition to the second surface of the foam e.g. by laminating or coating. In some embodiments the first and or the second adhesive composition comprise a solvent.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure provides a bonded composite comprising a first substrate having a first surface a second substrate having a second surface and a bonding interface between the first surface of the first substrate to the second surface of the second substrate. In some embodiments the bonding interface comprises a pressure sensitive adhesive as described herein. In some embodiments the bonding interface comprises a tape as described herein. In some embodiments the first surface has a surface energy of less than 35 dyne per centimeter.

The above summary of the present disclosure is not intended to describe each embodiment of the present invention. The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are also set forth in the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and from the claims.

In one aspect the present disclosure provides a pressure sensitive adhesive comprising both a linear block copolymer and a multi arm block copolymer. The pressure sensitive adhesive also comprises two high glass transition temperature tackifiers. In some embodiments the adhesives may be useful for bonding to low surface energy substrates.

The linear block copolymer can be described by the formula R G wherein R represents a rubbery block G represents a glassy block and m the number of glassy blocks is 1 or 2. In some embodiments m is one and the linear block copolymer is a diblock copolymer comprising one rubbery block and one glassy block. In some embodiments m is two and the linear block copolymer comprises two glassy endblocks and one rubbery midblock i.e. the linear block copolymer is a triblock copolymer.

Generally a rubbery block exhibits a glass transition temperature Tg of less than room temperature. In some embodiments the Tg of the rubbery block is less than about 0 C. or even less than about 10 C. In some embodiments the Tg of the rubbery block is less than about 40 C. or even less than about 60 C.

Generally a glassy block exhibits a Tg of greater than room temperature. In some embodiments the Tg of the glassy block is at least about 40 C. at least about 60 C. at least about 80 C. or even at least about 100 C.

In some embodiments the rubbery block comprises a polymerized conjugated diene a hydrogenated derivative of a polymerized conjugated diene or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the conjugated dienes comprise 4 to 12 carbon atoms. Exemplary conjugated dienes include butadiene isoprene ethylbutadiene phenylbutadiene piperylene pentadiene hexadiene ethylhexadiene and dimethylbutadiene. The polymerized conjugated dienes may be used individually or as copolymers with each other. In some embodiments the conjugated diene is selected from the group consisting of isoprene butadiene ethylene butadiene copolymers and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments at least one glassy block comprises a polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomer. In some embodiments both glassy blocks of a triblock copolymer comprise a polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomer. In some embodiments the monovinyl aromatic monomers comprise 8 to 18 carbon atoms. Exemplary monovinyl aromatic monomers include styrene vinylpyridine vinyl toluene alpha methyl styrene methyl styrene dimethylstyrene ethylstyrene diethyl styrene t butylstyrene di n butylstyrene isopropylstyrene other alkylated styrenes styrene analogs and styrene homologs. In some embodiments the monovinyl aromatic monomer is selected from the group consisting of styrene styrene compatible monomers or monomer blends and combinations thereof.

As used herein styrene compatible monomers or monomer blends refers to a monomer or blend of monomers which may be polymerized or copolymerized that preferentially associate with polystyrene or with the polystyrene endblocks of a block copolymer. The compatibility can arise from actual copolymerization with monomeric styrene solubility of the compatible monomer or blend or polymerized monomer or blend in the polystyrene phase during hot melt or solvent processing or association of the monomer or blend with the styrene rich phase domain on standing after processing.

In some embodiments the linear block copolymer is diblock copolymer. In some embodiments the diblock copolymer is selected from the group consisting of styrene isoprene and styrene butadiene. In some embodiments the linear block copolymer is a triblock copolymer. In some embodiments the triblock copolymer is selected from the group consisting of styrene isoprene styrene styrene butadiene styrene styrene ethylene butadiene styrene and combinations thereof. Diblock and triblock copolymers are commercially available e.g. those under the trade name VECTOR available from Dexco Polymer LP Houston Tex. and those available under the trade name KRATON available from Kraton Polymers U.S. LLC Houston Tex. As manufactured and or purchased triblock copolymers may contain some fraction of diblock copolymer as well.

In some embodiments the multi arm block copolymer of the present disclosure has the general formula Q Y wherein Q represents an arm of the multi arm block copolymer n represents the number of arms and is a whole number of at least 3 i.e. the multi arm block copolymer is a star block copolymer. Y is the residue of a multifunctional coupling agent. Each arm Q independently has the formula G R wherein G is a glassy block and R is a rubbery block. In some embodiments n ranges from 3 10. In some embodiments n ranges from 3 5. In some embodiments n is 4. In some embodiments n is equal to 6 or more.

Exemplary rubbery blocks include polymerized conjugated dienes such as those described above hydrogenated derivatives of a polymerized conjugated diene or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the rubbery block of at least one arm comprises a polymerized conjugated diene selected from the group consisting of isoprene butadiene ethylene butadiene copolymers and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the rubbery block of each arm comprises a polymerized conjugated diene selected from the group consisting of isoprene butadiene ethylene butadiene copolymers and combinations thereof.

Exemplary glassy blocks include polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomers such as those described above. In some embodiments the glassy block of at least one arm is selected from the group consisting of styrene styrene compatible blends and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the glassy block of each arm is selected from the group consisting of styrene styrene compatible blends and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the multi arm block copolymer is a polymodal block copolymer. As used herein the term polymodal means that the copolymer comprises endblocks having at least two different molecular weights. Such a block copolymer may also be characterized as having at least one high molecular weight endblock and at least one low molecular weight endblock wherein the terms high and low are used relative to each other. In some embodiments the ratio of the number average molecular weight of the high molecular weight endblock Mn H relative to the number average molecular weight of the low molecular weight endblock Mn L is at least about 1.25.

In some embodiments Mn H ranges from about 5 000 to about 50 000. In some embodiments Mn H is at least about 8 000 and in some embodiments at least about 10 000. In some embodiments Mn H is no greater than about 35 000. In some embodiments Mn L ranges from about 1 000 to about 10 000. In some embodiments Mn L is at least about 2 000 and in some embodiments at least about 4 000. In some embodiments Mn L is less than about 9 000 and in some embodiments less than about 8 000.

In some embodiments the multi arm block copolymer is an asymmetric block copolymer. As used herein the term asymmetric means that the arms of the block copolymer are not all identical. Generally a polymodal block copolymer is an asymmetric block copolymer i.e. a polymodal asymmetric block copolymer as not all arms of a polymodal block copolymer are identical since the molecular weights of the end blocks are not all the same. In some embodiments the block copolymers of the present disclosure are polymodal asymmetric block copolymers. Methods of making asymmetric polymodal block copolymers are described in e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 296 547.

Generally the multifunctional coupling agent may be any polyalkenyl coupling agent or other material known to have functional groups that can react with carbanions of the living polymer to form linked polymers. The polyalkenyl coupling agent may be aliphatic aromatic or heterocyclic. Exemplary aliphatic polyalkenyl coupling agents include polyvinyl and polyalkyl acetylenes diacetylenes phosphates phosphites and dimethacrylates e.g. ethylene dimethacrylate . Exemplary aromatic polyalkenyl coupling agents include polyvinyl benzene polyvinyl toluene polyvinyl xylene polyvinyl anthracene polyvinyl naphthalene and divinyldurene. Exemplary polyvinyl groups include divinyl trivinyl and tetravinyl groups. In some embodiments divinylbenzene DVB may be used and may include o divinyl benzene m divinyl benzene p divinyl benzene and mixtures thereof. Exemplary heterocyclic polyalkenyl coupling agents include divinyl pyridine and divinyl thiophene. Other exemplary multifunctional coupling agents include silicon halides polyepoxides polyisocyanates polyketones polyanhydrides and dicarboxylic acid esters.

The pressure sensitive adhesives of the present disclosure comprise at least two high Tg tackifiers each having a glass transition temperature Tg of at least 60 degrees Celsius C. . As used herein the terms high glass transition temperature tackifier and high Tg tackifier refers to a tackifier having a glass transition temperature of at least 60 C. In some embodiments at least one of the high Tg tackifiers has a Tg of at least 65 C. or even at least 70 C. In some embodiments both high Tg tackifiers have a Tg of at least 65 C. and in some embodiments both high Tg tackifiers have a Tg of at least 70 C. In some embodiments the first high Tg tackifier has a softening point of at least about 115 C. and in some embodiments at least about 120 C. In some embodiments the second high Tg tackifier has a softening point of at least about 115 C. and in some embodiments at least about 120 C.

The first high Tg tackifier is primarily compatible with at least some of the rubbery blocks. In some embodiments the first high Tg tackifier is primarily compatible with the rubbery block of the linear block copolymer and each rubbery block of a multi arm block copolymer.

As used herein a tackifier is compatible with a block if it is miscible with that block. Generally the miscibility of a tackifier with a block can be determined by measuring the effect of the tackifier on the Tg of that block. If a tackifier is miscible with a block it will alter e.g. increase the Tg of that block.

A tackifier is primarily compatible with a block if it is at least miscible with that block although it may also be miscible with other blocks. For example a tackifier that is primarily compatible with a rubbery block will be miscible with the rubbery block but may also be miscible with a glassy block.

Generally resins having relatively low solubility parameters tend to associate with the rubbery blocks however their solubility in the glassy blocks tends to increase as the molecular weights or softening points of these resins are lowered. Exemplary tackifiers that are primarily compatible with the rubbery blocks include polymeric terpenes hetero functional terpenes coumarone indene resins rosin acids esters of rosin acids disproportionated rosin acid esters hydrogenated C5 aliphatic resins C9 hydrogenated aromatic resins C5 C9 aliphatic aromatic resins dicyclopentadiene resins hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins arising from C5 C9 and dicyclopentadiene precursors hydrogenated styrene monomer resins and blends thereof.

The pressure sensitive adhesives of the present disclosure also comprise a second high Tg tackifier that is primarily compatible with the at least one glassy block. In some embodiments the second high Tg tackifier is primarily compatible with the glassy block s of the linear block copolymer. In some embodiments the second high Tg tackifier is primarily compatible with each glassy block of the multi arm block copolymer. Generally a tackifier that is primarily compatible with a glassy block is miscible with the glassy block and may be miscible with a rubbery block.

Generally resins having relatively high solubility parameters tend to associate with the glassy blocks however their solubility in the rubbery blocks tends to increase as the molecular weights or softening points of these resins are lowered. Exemplary tackifiers that are primarily compatible with the glassy blocks include coumarone indene resins rosin acids esters of rosin acids disproportionated rosin acid esters C9 aromatics alpha methyl styrene C9 C5 aromatic modified aliphatic hydrocarbons and blends thereof.

In some embodiments the pressure sensitive adhesives of the present disclosure further comprise at least one component selected from the group consisting of a low Tg tackifier a plasticizer and combinations thereof. As used herein the terms low glass transition temperature tackifier and low Tg tackifier refers to a tackifier having a glass transition temperature of less than 60 C. Exemplary low Tg tackifiers include polybutenes.

Generally a plasticizer is compatible with one or more blocks of the linear block copolymer and or one or more blocks of the multi arm block copolymer. Generally a plasticizer that is compatible with a block will be miscible with that block and will lower the Tg of that block. Exemplary plasticizers include naphthenic oils liquid polybutene resins polyisobutylene resins and liquid isoprene polymers.

In some embodiments the ratio of the total weight of all multi arm block copolymers to the total weight of all linear block copolymers ranges from 5.7 1 to 1.5 1. In some embodiments this ratio is no greater than 4 1 or even no greater than 3 1. In some embodiments this ratio is no less than 1.8 1 or even no less than 2 1.

In some embodiments the ratio of the total weight of all block copolymers to the total weight of all high Tg tackifiers ranges from 1.2 1 to 1 1.2. In some embodiments this ratio is no greater that 1.15 1 or even no greater than 1.1 1. In some embodiments this ratio is no less than 1 1.15 or even no less than 1 1.1.

In some embodiments the ratio of the total weight of high Tg tackifier s that are primarily compatible with the rubbery blocks to the total weight of the high Tg tackifier s that are primarily compatible with the glassy blocks ranges from 9 1 to 0.67 1 In some embodiments this ratio is no greater than 4 1 and in some embodiments no greater than 3 1. In some embodiments this ratio is no less than 1 1 or even no less than 1.85 1.

In some embodiments the total amount of the components selected from the group consisting of low Tg tackifiers plasticizers and combinations thereof expressed as a percent by weight wt based on the total weight of the main adhesive components i.e. the block copolymers the high Tg tackifiers the low Tg tackifiers and the plasticizers is in the range of 2 to 10 wt . In some embodiments the total amount of these components is at least 4 wt and in some embodiments at least 5 wt based on the total weight of the main adhesive components. In some embodiments the total amount of these components is no greater than 8 wt or even no greater than 7 wt based on the total weight of the main adhesive components.

In some embodiments the pressure sensitive adhesive of the present disclosure is a hot melt adhesive. As used herein a hot melt adhesive is a polymer or blended polymeric material with a melt viscosity profile such that it can be coated on a substrate or carrier in a thin layer at a process temperature significantly above normal room temperature but retains useful pressure sensitive adhesive characteristics at room temperature.

The pressure sensitive adhesive compositions of the present invention can be made using methods known in the art. For example they can be made by dissolving the block copolymers suitable tackifiers any plasticizer s and any other additives in a suitable solvent creating a solvent based adhesive. The adhesive may then be coated onto a substrate e.g. release liner tape backing core or panel using conventional means e.g. knife coating roll coating gravure coating rod coating curtain coating spray coating air knife coating . In some embodiments the adhesive is then dried to remove at least some of the solvent. In some embodiments substantially all of the solvent is removed.

In some embodiments the pressure sensitive adhesive is prepared in a substantially solvent free process i.e. the adhesive contain no greater than about 10 wt. solvent in some embodiments no greater than about 5 wt. solvent and in some embodiments no greater than 1 wt. solvent or even no greater than trace amounts of solvent i.e. essentially no solvent . In some embodiments the pressure sensitive adhesive may contain residual solvents e.g. adhesives may be prepared in solvent and the solvent is removed prior to subsequent processing e.g. coating. Generally the residual solvent is present as no greater than about 5 in some embodiments no greater than about 1 or even no greater than trace amounts of solvent i.e. essentially no solvent . Such substantially solvent free processes are known and include e.g. compounding by calendering or roll milling and extruding e.g. single. screw twin screw disk screw reciprocating single screw pin barrel single screw etc. . Commercially available equipment such as BRABENDER or BANBURY internal mixers are also available to batch mix the adhesive compositions. After compounding the adhesive may be coated through a die into a desired form such as a layer of adhesive or it may be collected for forming at a later time.

In some embodiments solvent based adhesives may be used. In some embodiments such adhesives comprise at least about 20 by weight solvent in some embodiments at least about 40 at least about 50 or even at least about 60 by weight solvent. Any known method of coating and drying solvent based adhesives may be used.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides a tape comprising a backing and a pressure sensitive skin adhesive bonded to at least one major surface of the backing. In some embodiments the tape comprises a backing and a skin adhesive bonded to both major surfaces of the backing wherein at least one skin adhesive is a pressure sensitive adhesive. In some embodiments both skin adhesives are pressure sensitive adhesives. In some embodiments both adhesives are the same adhesive. In some embodiments the adhesives are different adhesives.

As used herein the term core may be used interchangeably with the term backing when referring to a double sided tape construction i.e. a tape construction having an adhesive layer on both major surfaces of the backing or core.

At least one skin adhesive of the tapes of the present disclosure is a pressure sensitive adhesive comprising a linear block copolymer a multi arm block copolymer and at least two high Tg tackifiers as described herein. In some embodiments both skin adhesives are pressure sensitive adhesives comprising a linear block copolymer a multi arm block copolymer and at least two high Tg tackifiers as described herein.

In some embodiments one or more of the skin adhesive may be directly bonded to a major surface of a backing or core. In some embodiments one or more of the skin adhesives may be indirectly bonded to a major surface of a backing or core. In some embodiments e.g. a primer layer may be interposed between the skin adhesive and the major surface. Useful primers are generally known and include e.g. the primers described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 376 Groves and U.S. Pat. No. 5 605 964 Groves .

Any known backing or core may be used. In some embodiments a backing or core comprising a foam may be used e.g. open cell foams or closed cell foams. In some embodiments the foam may comprise a thermoplastic foam. In some embodiments the foam may comprise a thermoset foam. Exemplary foams include acrylic foams polyethylene foams and polyurethane foams. Exemplary foams are also described in e.g. the David Eaves editor published by Shawbury Shrewsbury Shropshire UK Rapra Technology 2004.

Referring to exemplary tape according to some embodiments of the present disclosure comprises backing or core and two adhesive layers. First adhesive layer is bonded to first major surface of backing while second adhesive layer is bonded to second major surface of backing . As shown in both first adhesive layer and second adhesive layer are directly bonded a major surface of backing . In some embodiments one or both adhesive layer may be indirectly bonded to backing . For example in some embodiments one or more additional layers e.g. primers adhesion promoting layers films webs scrims and the like may be interposed between the backing and an adhesive layer.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides a bonded composite. As used herein a bonded composite comprises a first substrate having a first major surface and a second substrate having a first major surface wherein the first major surface of the first substrate is bonded to the first major surface of the second substrate via a bonding interface.

In some embodiments the bonding interface comprises an adhesive layer comprising a pressure sensitive adhesive comprising a linear block copolymer a multi arm block copolymer and at least two high Tg tackifiers as described herein.

In some embodiments the bonding interface comprises a backing having a first skin adhesive bonded to the first major surface of the backing and a second skin adhesive bonded to the second major surface of the backing. At least one of the skin adhesives comprises a pressure sensitive adhesive comprising a linear block copolymer a multi arm block copolymer and at least two high Tg tackifiers as described herein. In some embodiments both the first skin adhesive and the second skin adhesive comprises a linear block copolymer a multi arm block copolymer and at least two high Tg tackifiers as described herein.

In some embodiments the first substrate comprises a metal glass ceramic or polymeric materials and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the first substrate includes a primed painted or polymeric surface. In some embodiments the painted surface may comprise an automotive paint or clearcoat.

In some embodiments the first major surface of the first major substrate is a low surface energy surface. As used herein a low surface energy surface means a surface with a measured surface energy below approximately 35 dyne per centimeter. The surface energy of a surface may be tested according to ASTM Standard D2578. Suitable test kits include e.g. the ACCU DYNE surface wetability kit available from Diversified Enterprises Claremont N.H.

In some embodiments the second substrate comprises a metal glass ceramic or polymeric materials and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the second substrate includes a primed painted or polymeric surface. In some embodiments the painted surface may comprise an automotive paint or clearcoat. In some embodiments the first major surface of the second substrate is a low surface energy surface.

In some embodiments the backing of the bonding interface comprises a foam e.g. an open cell foam or a closed cell foam. In some embodiments the foam comprises a thermoplastic foam. In some embodiments the foam comprises a thermoset foam. In some embodiments the foam comprises an acrylic foam. In some embodiments the foam is a flexible foam. Generally a flexible foam is a foam which when in sheet form can be bent back upon itself with out fracturing. Exemplary foams are described in e.g. the Handbook of Polymer Foams David Eaves editor published by Shawbury Shrewsbury Shropshire UK Rapra Technology 2004.

Referring to exemplary bonded composite according to some embodiments of the present disclosure comprises first substrate bonded to second substrate via bonding interface . Bonding interface comprises a tape comprising backing or core and two adhesive layers. First adhesive layer is bonded to a first major surface of backing while second adhesive layer is bonded to a second major surface of backing . As shown in both first adhesive layer and second adhesive layer are directly bonded a major surface of backing . In some embodiments one or both adhesive layer may be indirectly bonded to backing .

As shown in in some embodiments first adhesive layer is bonded directly to major surface of first substrate . Similarly in some embodiments second adhesive layer is directly bonded to major surface of second substrate . In some embodiments one or both adhesive layers may be indirectly bonded to a major surface of a substrate. For example in some embodiments one or more additional layers e.g. primers adhesion promoting layers films webs scrims and the like may be interposed between an adhesive layer and a substrate.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides methods of making a tape comprising a backing or a core wherein the backing or the core comprises a foam such as those described above. The tape comprises at least one skin adhesive wherein at least one skin adhesive is a pressure sensitive adhesive comprising a linear block copolymer a multi arm block copolymer and at least two high Tg tackifiers as described herein.

In some embodiments the method comprises extruding a foam. In some embodiments the method further comprises extruding at least one skin adhesive. In some embodiments the foam and at least one skin adhesive are co extruded. Methods of extruding polymeric foams and methods of coextruding polymer foams and skin adhesives are described e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 6 103 152 Gehlsen et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 630 531 Khandpur et al. both of which are assigned to the present assignee and are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

In some embodiments the method of making tapes having a foam backing comprises extruding a foam backing and coextruding a first pressure sensitive adhesive as described herein to form a first adhesive skin bonded to the first major surface of the foam backing. In some embodiments the method further comprises extruding a second adhesive to form a second adhesive skin bonded to the second major surface of the foam backing.

In some embodiments the method of making tapes having a foam backing comprises providing the foam backing which may have been produced by extrusion or any other known means and applying a first adhesive composition comprising a first pressure sensitive adhesive as described herein to the first surface of the foam backing. The first adhesive composition may be applied by e.g. laminating or coating e.g. knife coating roll coating gravure coating rod coating curtain coating spray coating or air knife coating .

In some embodiments the second adhesive may be independently extruded or co extruded with the foam and or the first adhesive. In some embodiments the second adhesive may be applied to the foam backing by e.g. laminating or coating.

In some embodiments the first and or second adhesive may be cured. Any known curing processes may be used e.g. thermal curing and radiation curing. In some embodiments one or both adhesives may crosslinked via exposure to actinic radiation e.g. electron beam radiation or ultraviolet radiation.

The following specific but non limiting examples will serve to illustrate the invention. In these examples all percentages are parts by weight unless otherwise indicated.

Acrylic Polymer 1 AP 1 was prepared by mixing 45 parts of IOA 45 parts of BA 10 parts of AA 0.15 part IRGACURE 651 and 0.06 part of IOTG. Discreet film packages were formed from a packaging film 0.0635 mm thick ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer film sold as VA 24 Film from CT Film Dallas Tex. . The AP 1 composition was sealed into the film packages which measured approximately 10 centimeters cm by 5 cm by 0.5 cm thick. While immersed in a water bath maintained between about 21 C. and about 32 C. the packages were exposed to ultraviolet UV radiation having an intensity of about 3.5 milliWatts per square centimeter mW sq cm and a total energy of about 1680 milliJoules per square centimeter mJ sq cm as measured in NIST units. The method of forming the packages and curing are described in Example 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 610 the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Acrylic Polymer 2 AP 2 was prepared according to the procedure for AP 1 except that 85 parts of 2 EHA 15 parts of AA 0.15 part IRGACURE 651 and 0.8 part IOTG were used. Similarly Acrylic Polymer 3 AP 3 was prepared according to the procedure for Acrylic Polymer 1 except that the composition was 95 parts of 2 EHA 5 parts of AA 0.15 part IRGACURE 651 and 0.03 part of IOTG. The compositions for AP 2 and AP 3 were placed in packages and exposed to UV energy according to the procedure for AP 1.

Pressure sensitive adhesives according to the compositions shown in Table 2 were compounded using a 60 mm co rotating twin screw extruder available from Berstorff the first adhesive extruder . A polymodal asymmetric star block copolymer PASBC was prepared according to U.S. Pat. No. 5 393 373 the subject matter of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The polymer had number average molecular weights of about 4 000 Dalton and about 21 500 Dalton for the two endblocks 127 000 147 000 Dalton for the arm and about 1 100 000 Dalton for the star measured by SEC size exclusion chromatography calibrated using polystyrene standards. The polystyrene content was between 9.5 and 11.5 percent by weight. The mole percentage of high molecular weight arms was estimated to be about 30 .

The polymodal asymmetric block copolymer and a linear styrene isoprene styrene SIS block copolymer KRATON 1161 D were dry fed into the first zone of the first adhesive extruder. Using a roll feed extruder available from Berstorff either acrylic polymer AP 1 or AP 2 was heated and fed into the third zone of the first adhesive extruder. Antioxidant IRGANOX 1010 ultraviolet light absorber TINUVIN 328 pigmented EVA 4900 CMB were dry fed and REGALITE R1125 CUMAR 130 and NYPLAST 222B were melt fed in to various zones of the first adhesive extruder.

A pressure sensitive adhesive was compounded in a 60 mm co rotating twin screw extruder available from Berstorff the second adhesive extruder in a similar manner as described for the first skin adhesives except that the composition was as follows 12.70 of the polymodal asymmetric star block copolymer PASBC 53.10 by weight AP 1 23.30 tackifying resin ESCOREZ 1310LC 3.80 tackifying resin SUPERESTER W115 6.20 plasticizer SANTICIZER 141 0.26 antioxidant IRGANOX 1010 and 0.25 ultraviolet light absorber TINUVIN 328 .

Foam backings FC1 FC2 having the compositions shown in Table 4 were compounded according to the following procedure. Black pigmented EVA 4900 CMB was dry fed in to the first zone of a 90 mm co rotating twin screw extruder the backing extruder available from Berstorff Hannover Germany . Using a roll feed extruder available from Berstorff both acrylic polymers AP 2 and AP 3 were heated and fed into the second zone of the backing extruder. DUALITE U010 185D expandable microspheres expandable microspheres having a shell composition containing acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile and a core of isopentane available from Henkel Corporation Gulph Mills Pa. were fed into the ninth zone of the backing extruder.

Three layer co extruded tape samples were prepared by coextruding a first skin adhesive layer a foam backing layer as the middle layer and a second skin adhesive layer. Examples 1 3 use exemplary adhesives according to some embodiments of the present disclosure Adh 1 through Adh 3 . The tape constructions are described in Table 5.

The second skin adhesive was compounded in the second adhesive extruder as described above and fed through an outer layer of a three layer multi manifold film die obtained from Cloeren Inc. Orange Tex. . A foam backing layer was compounded in the backing extruder as described above and fed to the center layer of the three layer die. A first skin adhesive was compounded in the first adhesive extruder as described above and fed to the outer layer of the three layer die opposite the second skin adhesive.

Upon exiting the die the co extruded layers were cast onto a silicone release coated casting roll. The roll was cooled with water having a temperature of about 12 C. The cooled extrudate was transferred from the casting roll via a silicone release coated rubber belt to a 0.117 mm thick two side silicone coated polyethylene release liner that was transported at the same speed as the casting roll to the end of the web transport line. The first skin adhesive was in contact with the liner after the transfer whereas the second skin adhesive was open to the air. The liner had differential release properties which allow the tape to be unrolled after winding without liner confusion. Release liners are well known in the art and any known release liner may be used. Typically the release liner comprises a film or paper substrate coated with a release material. Commercially available release liners include but are not limited to silicone coated papers and silicone coated films such as polyester films. Suitable release liners are also disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 835 422 6 805 933 6 780 484 and 6 204 350 assigned to 3M Innovative Properties Company.

The foam backing and both adhesive skins were crosslinked on web using electron beam curing while supported on the liner. Two sequential irradiation steps acting on opposite faces of the tape were employed. The first skin adhesive was irradiated through the polyethylene liner whereas the second skin adhesive was irradiated in an open face condition. The electron beam units were curtain type electron beam processors such as those available under the trade designation BROADBAND from PCT Engineered Systems LLC. Davenport Iowa operated according the acceleration voltage and dose conditions provided in Table 4.

The cured adhesive tapes were tested for adhesion to low surface energy automotive paints according to the Breakaway and Continuous Peel Adhesion BACP METHOD described in Ford Motor Co. Specification WSB M3G138 B. Tensile testing was carried out using an MTS Model 1122 tensile tester MTS Systems Corp. Eden Prairie Minn. equipped with TestWorks 4 software programmed to calculate the breakaway load value averaged continuous peel value and total energy.

The test surfaces were steel panels painted with automotive paint systems comprising a base electrocoat pigmented basecoat and a low surface energy carbamate crosslinked unpigmented acrylic based clearcoat. The experimental tapes were adhered to the clearcoat for testing. Test Surface 1 had a measured surface energy Accu Dyne solutions of 33 dynes cm and Test Surface 2 had a measured surface energy of 32 dynes cm.

After applying the test tape to the test surface the samples were conditioned prior to testing. First the samples were conditioned at room temperature for three days. Next the samples were conditioned at 38 C. and 100 relative humidity for six days. Four samples were tested for each tape and the average result is reported in Table 5.

Three layer co extruded tape samples were prepared similarly to the procedure of Example 1 with the exception of co extruding two adhesive skin layers having the adhesive compositions ADH 4 ADH 5 ADH 6 and ADH 7 shown in Table 6 with the FC2 foam backing as the middle layer. Both skin layers were fed from the same extruder to the outer layers of the three layer die. Samples approximately 25 cm 76 cm were cut from the adhesive web and second piece of liner applied to the open face side of the tape Samples were then E beamed after approximately 3 hours dwell at ambient condition. Both sides of the test specimens were irradiated equally through the protective liners The adhesive skin tested against the automotive paint was the side of the tape originally transferred to the carrier liner from the silicone belt.

The adhesive tapes were tested for 90 Degree Peel Adhesion to Test Surface 1 and Test Surface 2 described above and results are shown in Table 7. A test sample was prepared by adhering a 0.5 inch 4.5 inch wide strip of the tape with the second surface against a 0.75 inch by 4.5 inch wide strip of anodized aluminum foil and the first adhesive surface against the panel coated with the low surface energy paint described above. The laminated test assembly was rolled down using a 6.6 kg steel roller and left at room temperature for the time shown in the table before testing. The test was run on an MTS Model 1122 tensile tester MTS Systems Corp. Eden Prairie Minn. by pulling the aluminum foil and tape away from the painted panel at a 90 degree angle. Test results are recorded in pounds per 0.5 inch lbs 0.5 in and converted to Newtons cm N cm .

Various modifications and alterations of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention.

