---

title: Microfluidic device, and related methods
abstract: A method of making a microfluidic device is provided. The method features patterning a permeable wall on a substrate, and surrounding the permeable wall with a solid, non-permeable boundary structure to establish a microfluidic channel having a cross-sectional dimension less than 5,000 microns and a cross-sectional area at least partially filled with the permeable wall so that fluid flowing through the microfluidic channel at least partially passes through the permeable wall.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07850861&OS=07850861&RS=07850861
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07850861
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070618
---
The invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The present invention relates to microfluidic devices containing permeable structural components integrated into microfluidic channels and to methods of making and using the microfluidic devices. Applications in which the microfluidic devices are useful include chromatographic separations filtrations chemical and biological detection and identification lab on chip environments and microelectromechanical systems.

Microfluidic and nanofluidic hereinafter collectively referred to as microfluidic technologies provide promising alternatives for acquiring information from and detecting chemical and biological samples. Biochemical and chemical reactions processes separation identification and detection both simple and complex can be carried out using microfluidic technology. Microfluidic technology provides many benefits over conventional systems. These benefits include for example smaller sample sizes ease of portability reduced laboratory area requirements and shorter processing periods. As a consequence of these many benefits microfluidic technology has attracted interest in a variety of technical disciplines for use in diverse applications. Examples of some applications for which microfluidic technology is particularly suited include chromatographic separations filtrations analytical chemistry chemical and biological synthesis DNA amplification and screening of chemical and biological agents for activity. It is envisioned that many of these applications will be carried out on what are known as miniaturized lab on chips and microelectromechanical MEM systems.

Liquid chromatography is a physical separation technique in which a liquid mobile phase typically containing a solvent carries a sample containing multiple constituents or species e.g. proteins and other biomolecules along a column or trench containing one more packing materials which interact with the sample to separate sample constituents or species from one another. In the context of a microfluidic system the packing materials are deposited in a microfluidic channel having a width and or depth on the order of tenths of nanometers to a few millimeters. Interaction between the packing materials and liquid mobile phase which effects separation of chemical constituents and biological agents may involve for example adsorption ion exchange partitioning and size exclusion.

In some applications it is desirable to fill the entire microfluidic channel with packing material whereas in other applications it is desirable to fill less than the entire microfluidic channel with the packing material. A partially filled microfluidic channel may take several forms with each form possessing its own advantages. For example according to one embodiment partial filling of the microfluidic channel may create a continuous permeable wall extending along the microfluidic channel with a coextensive vacant space extending longitudinally between the permeable material and the base surface of the microfluidic channel. The provision of the continuous vacant area above or below the permeable wall may for example reduce the pressure requirement for flowing an analyte solution through the microfluidic channel. According to another embodiment differing packing materials are packed into discrete longitudinal segments of the microfluidic channel with adjacent packing material segments either contacting one another or being spaced apart from one another lengthwise along the microfluidic channel. The provision of multiple distinct packing material segments along a portion or the entire length of the microfluidic channel permits the fluid sample to interact with multiple different materials permitting analyses of multiple interactions and depending upon the particular packing materials selected enhancing constituent agent separation of the sample.

One manner of attempting to fill or partially fill a microfluidic channel is to pack micro or nano particles into the channel after substrates defining the microfluidic channel have been assembled together. It is believed that this post assembly packing technique would be problematic because the extremely small dimensions of the channels would make it difficult if not impossible in some situations to apply sufficient pressure for forcing the particles into and along the entire length of the channels without rupturing the bond between the substrates. Another envisioned problem of this post assembly packing technique would relate to the handling of micro sized packing micro and nano particles. It is further believed that this post assembly packing technique also would not be conducive towards controlling the partial filling of microfluidic channels. Using this technique it would be difficult to create a permeable wall of uniform wall height or permeable wall discrete section spaced apart from one another longitudinally along the microfluidic channel.

Another technique that could be attempted for packing microfluidic channels is to pack the particles into microfluidic channels of a first substrate then to assemble a second substrate on the first substrate and thereby enclose the microfluidic channel. It is believed that this fabrication technique would be problematic with regard to its handling of micro sized packing materials. It is further believed that it would be difficult to create a uniform wall height with uniform spacing from the channel base for creating partially filled microfluidic channels.

According to a first aspect of the invention a method of making a microfluidic device is provided. The method features patterning a permeable wall on a substrate and surrounding the permeable wall with a solid non permeable boundary structure to establish a microfluidic channel having a cross sectional dimension less than 5 000 microns and a cross sectional area at least partially filled with the permeable wall so that fluid flowing through the microfluidic channel at least partially passes through the permeable wall.

A second aspect of the invention involves a method of making a microfluidic device from first and second substrates. The method features patterning a permeable wall on a first substrate and providing a second substrate comprising a substrate surface with a microfluidic channel the microfluidic channel having a cross sectional dimension less than 5 000 microns and a cross sectional area. The first and second substrates are assembled together to insert the permeable wall into the microfluidic channel with the permeable wall at least partially filling the cross sectional area of the microfluidic channel so that fluid flowing through the microfluidic channel at least partially passes through the permeable wall.

A third aspect of the invention features a method of making a microfluidic device comprising patterning a permeable wall on a substrate and applying a non permeable coating over the permeable wall to establish a microfluidic channel having a cross sectional dimension less than 5 000 microns and a cross sectional area at least partially filled with the permeable wall so that fluid flowing through the microfluidic channel at least partially passes through the permeable wall.

Additional aspects of the invention are directed to microfluidic devices made by the above methods and methods of employing the microfluidic devices in various applications such as chromatography chemical and biological detection and identification using techniques such as spectrometry and electrochemistry.

Reference will now be made in detail to the presently preferred embodiments and methods of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate like features and parts throughout the drawings. It should be noted however that the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific details representative devices and methods and illustrative examples shown and described in this section in connection with the preferred embodiments and methods. The invention according to its various aspects is particularly pointed out and distinctly claimed in the attached claims read in view of this specification and appropriate equivalents.

According to an embodiment of the invention a method of making a microfluidic device features providing a substrate comprising a substrate surface with a microfluidic channel having a cross sectional dimension less than 2 000 microns and a cross sectional area.

Microfluidic channels also referred to in the art and herein as trenches are exposed at an upper surface of substrate wherein the term upper is used in reference to the orientation depicted in whereas in and substrate is inverted to cause surface to face downward. A linear array of parallel microfluidic channels is shown in the drawings. While two microfluidic channels are illustrated in the drawings it should be understood that any multiple e.g. three four five etc. of microfluidic channels including multiples in the tens or hundreds may be present on surface of substrate . Alternatively substrate may include a single microfluidic channel . In the event that multiple microfluidic channels are present microfluidic channels may be isolated of one another channels such as in the case of the linear array shown in . As another alternative microfluidic channels may have non linear shapes and or may be in communication with one another for example to establish networks of flow paths. Optionally microfluidic channels may also extend vertically i.e. perpendicular to substrate surface to establish three dimensional flow paths or networks.

Upper surface of substrate includes partition walls which define the side surfaces of microfluidic channels and space adjacent microfluidic channels apart from one another. Microfluidic channels are further defined by a base surface which extends between the opposite side surfaces of microfluidic channel . The side surfaces of microfluidic channels are illustrated as planar and set at a 90 degree angle relative to the base surface. Side surfaces of microfluidic channels also are planar and are arranged in parallel relationship to one another to establish a uniform channel width. Each base surface is illustrated parallel with upper surface to establish a uniform depth to microfluidic channels . It should be understood that various modifications to the illustrated configuration may be implemented. For example the side surfaces may be set at obtuse angles relative to the base surface so that the side surfaces diverge away from one another thereby tapering microfluidic channel . Further the base and side surfaces may be non planar e.g. curved or undulating. Furthermore the side surfaces which are shown parallel to one another may be in a non parallel relationship to cause variation to the channel width. The base and side surface may join with one another without a discrete demarcation angle as in the case of a microfluidic channel having a U shaped or semi circular cross section.

The cross sectional dimensions of microfluidic channels include a width between side surfaces and a depth from base surface to substrate surface . It is preferred that microfluidic channels have a width less than about 5 000 microns m preferably less than 2 000 microns for example in a range of about 10 microns to about 1 000 microns and for some applications in a range of about 50 microns to about 500 microns. The depth of channels may be the same as or different than the width but preferably are in the preceding ranges. The length of microfluidic channels may be for example about 0.1 cm to about 10 cm although longer lengths are possible and useful in various applications. If multiple microfluidic channels are provided microfluidic channels may have the same or different dimensions and shapes relative to one another.

Turning now to process steps of an embodiment for patterning permeable walls on a substrate as shown in will be described. The examples of materials set forth above for substrate are also suitable for substrate . Substrate may comprise a monolithic structure made of a common material or a laminate of a plurality of layers of the same or different materials. Substrate may be made of the same material or a different material than substrate . Substrates and may possess the same or different dimensions shapes and other characteristics relative to one another.

Preferably permeable walls and positioned on substrate surface are made of sol gel. As shown in a sol gel solution is deposited onto upper surface of substrate using for example spin coating techniques to establish sol gel layer which is cured. Curing temperature will depend upon the particular sol gel material selected. The cure may be conducted at room or elevated temperature and may evaporate solvent from the sol gel.

Sol gels are commercially available from sources such as NoiseMeters Limited. Alternatively sol gels may be fabricated and patterned using standard procedures known in the art. An example of a sol gel fabrication and patterning procedure suitable for forming permeable walls on upper surface of substrate is illustrated in . Sol gel materials capable of being formed into permeable structures suitable for use with the present invention are known. Sol gel materials are described in the literature such as in PCT International Publication No. WO 01 58562 which discloses sol gel fabrication materials and fabrication process steps suitable for embodiments of the present invention. The PCT publication describes a process for making a sol gel solution which may be adapted for the present invention in which a mixture is prepared of sol gel precursors e.g. tetramethyloxysilane and N Octyldecyl dimethyl 3 trimethoxy silyl propyl ammonium chloride a deactivation agent e.g. phenyldimethylsilane and a catalyst e.g. trifluoroacetic acid . The mixture is vortexed subjected to a precipitate separation step then supematant is decanted to provide the sol gel solution.

Deposited and cured sol gel layer is patterned into permeable walls having predetermined dimensions and configurations as follows. A mask coating is uniformly applied over sol gel layer as shown in . Next as shown in using standard lithography resist coating is patterned into masks . Although not shown additional masking layers may be used. For example an aluminum layer or layer made of another material may be interposed between sol gel layer and resist coating for example to serve as an impermeable or etch resistant barrier between resist coating and sol gel layer . Regions of sol gel film not covered by masks are then etched for example using dry or wet etching such as reactive ion etching or ion milling so that sol gel film is patterned into one or more permeable walls under masks as shown in . Masks are then stripped away to leave patterned self supporting permeable walls coated on substrate as shown in .

In the illustrated embodiments permeable walls have identical widths and heights relative to one another. It should be understood that as with the case of microfluidic channels described above permeable walls may differ in width height and or length from one another. Also permeable walls may be made of the same or different materials relative to one another and may possess the same or different shapes and other attributes relative to one another.

The formation of permeable walls has been described hereinabove as a sol gel process. It should be understood that other porous and granular materials may be selected for permeable walls . Granular materials such as porous silicon prepared by anodic etching of bulk p type silicon in hydrofluidic acid solution also may be selected for permeable walls . Other methods include drop coating spraying evaporation sputtering and chemical vapor deposition.

Optionally permeable walls may be doped with metal such as in the case of metallic nanoparticle impregnated sol gels found in surface enhanced Raman SER spectroscopy applications. Suitable metals include but are not limited to silver and gold. In the event that sol gel layer is doped with metal such as metallic nanoparticles sol gel layer may be treated with a surface agent to reduce the metallic nanoparticles.

The embodied method further features assembling the substrates together to seal the microfluidic channels with the permeable walls inserted into and partially or completely filling the microfluidic channels.

The extent to which a permeable wall partially or completely fills a cross sectional area of a corresponding microfluidic channel depends upon the difference between the cross sectional dimensions of microfluidic channel and the cross sectional dimensions of corresponding permeable wall . In the embodiment illustrated in each permeable wall has a width substantially equal to the width of its corresponding microfluidic channel . The term substantially equal is intended to encompass an embodiment in which the opposite sides of permeable wall simultaneously contact the side walls of its corresponding microfluidic channel . It should be understood that the width of a permeable wall is at least slightly less than the width of its corresponding microfluidic channel so as to allow permeable wall to be inserted into and received in its corresponding channel without damaging permeable wall . It is within the scope of the invention to select a greater difference between the width of channel and the width of wall for example so that gaps are formed on opposite sides of permeable wall i.e. between the opposite side surfaces of permeable wall and the side surfaces of its corresponding channel .

In the embodiment illustrated in the height of permeable wall is substantially equal to the depth of microfluidic channel causing permeable wall to essentially fill the entirety of microfluidic channel and contact the base surface of microfluidic channel . illustrates an alternative embodiment in which permeable wall has a height that is less than the depth of microfluidic channel . A gap between the top of permeable wall and the base surface of microfluidic channel provides an unobstructed or vacant flow path above wall extending longitudinally along the entire length of permeable wall.

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is shown. The microfluidic device shown in is prepared by patterning permeable walls on substrate as described in detail above in reference to through or using other techniques mentioned above. A common coating is then applied over permeable walls . Coating serves as a non permeable or semi permeable boundary structure to convert the space occupied by permeable walls into microfluidic channels filled with the permeable wall material. Coating preferably is in a flowable state when applied and is hardenable into a non permeable or semi permeable solid. Other deposition techniques such as chemical vapor deposition may be used for depositing coating . Coating may be for example a metallic or polymeric material.

In the interest of simplification the drawings show microfluidic channels and permeable walls in substantial isolation of associated components commonly found in microfluidic devices. It should be understood that the microfluidic devices described herein may possess a more complex architecture such as encountered with lab on chip MEM and bio MEM systems. The microfluidic device may contain additional structural and mechanical components for carrying out its intended use. For example each microfluidic channel may be associated with a corresponding reservoir also known as a well at one end of the microfluidic channel. Each well may be linearly aligned with its corresponding microfluidic channel. Alternatively a microfluidic channel can be connected to more than one reservoir to provide multiple samples and optionally other components e.g. buffers to a microfluidic channel. A reservoir also can serve as a common source for more than one of the microfluidic channels. Commercially available pumps such as used for liquid chromatography may be connected to the wells for applying pressure to the samples in the well. A detection device is optionally provided at the opposite end for performance of chemical or biochemical identification or detection. The detection devices may be provided for carrying out for example mass spectrometry ultra violet absorption spectroscopy laser induced fluorescence spectroscopy etc. Other microcomponents known in the art such as microvalves mixers etc. may be associated with microfluidic channels for selectively controlling communication between channels and other functions.

The microfluidic devices embodied herein may be stacked upon one another to create a three dimensional array of packed microfluidic channels. Mechanical fasteners or bonding agents may be used for retaining the microfluidic devices in a stacked relationship.

The various methods embodied in this detailed specification and more broadly described in the summary of the invention are suitable for making microfluidic devices finding applicability in a number of uses including for example the in situ detection isolation and identification of unknown chemicals using techniques such as chromatographic separation and spectrometry. Impregnation of metal nanoparticles into the microfluidic devices is believed to enhance the Raman signal surface enhanced Raman or SER from various compounds e.g. amino acids purines pyrimadines and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons by orders of magnitude thereby enabling Raman detection and identification of dilute organic compounds. Generally operations with the microfluidic devices will involve introduction of a sample fluid at a first end of a microfluidic channel. The fluid may be liquid and or gas. The sample fluid may be pumped into the channel from a reservoir or well or injected directly into the microfluidic channel manually or using robotics. The sample is separated into its constituents or agents as it passes partially or completely through the permeable wall s . For example certain constituents of the sample may not pass completely through the permeable walls due to their interaction with the permeable materials. Other sample constituents such as the medium may pass through the entirety of the permeable wall. A spectrometer may be placed at the opposite end or along the microfluidic channel for analysis.

While this invention has been described as having a preferred design it is understood that it is capable of further modifications uses and or adaptations of the invention following in general the principle of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the central features hereinbefore set forth and fall within the scope of the invention of the limits of the appended claims.

