---

title: High-aspect-ratio metal-polymer composite structures for nano interconnects
abstract: A low-temperature process that combines high-aspect-ratio polymer structures with electroless copper plating to create laterally compliant MEMS structures. These structures can be used as IC-package interconnects that can lead to reliable, low-cost and high-performance nano wafer-level packaging. High-aspect-ratio low CTE polyimide structures with low stress, high toughness and strength were fabricated using plasma etching. The dry etching process was tuned to yield a wall angle above 80 degrees leading to an aspect ratio higher than 4. The etching process also leads to roughened sidewalls for selective electroless plating on the sidewalls of the polymer structures. These fabricated structures show reduction in the stresses at the interfaces and superior reliability as IC-package nano interconnects. Metal-coated polymer structures from MEMS fabrication techniques can provide low-cost high-performance solutions for wafer-level-packaging. Other embodiments are also claimed and described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07557448&OS=07557448&RS=07557448
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 07557448
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070827
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 032 301 filed 10 Jan. 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 262 075 which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 534 876 filed 8 Jan. 2004. Each of these patent applications is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth below.

The present invention was made with government support by the National Science Foundation NSF through the NSF ERC in Electronic Packaging EEC 9402723 . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is generally related to fabricating compliant polymer coated interconnects for nano wafer level packaging and more specifically related to a fabrication and material scheme for low stress interconnects using low stiffness and low CTE polymers for wafer level interconnects and packaging.

There are three main drivers for IC to package or board interconnects high speed unlimited I O connections and reparability. Compliant structures are essential to provide the interconnect reliability in fine pitch wafer level packaging. Yet conventional approaches for interconnects such as reflowed and electroplated solder interconnects are limited in terms of either pitch or electrical properties. For example solder bumps can only give thick 50 micron interconnects along with serious reliability problems.

Yet with finer pitch there is a large increase in the stresses at interconnect joints. Conventional compliant interconnect approaches to overcome this issue have complicated processing steps and the electrical properties are generally compromised to achieve the mechanical performance. These prior art attempts come with high cost and lengthy processing steps. For example pure metallic interconnects or interconnects even from newer materials such as carbon nanotubes can result in higher interfacial shear and peeling stresses that also affect the mechanical reliability.

Known high aspect ratio structures concentrate on electroplating through micro machined SU8 or other photoresist molds. Though SU8 can result in high aspect ratio structures it does not have good mechanical properties to fabricate reliable MEMS structures.

Decreasing I O pitch is one of the key technological barriers identified by the 2003 International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors ITRS 1 . Downscaling traditional solder bump interconnect will not satisfy the thermo mechanical reliability requirements at very fine pitches of the order of 30 microns and less. Recently MEMS based compliant metallic structures are being widely explored for reliable and high I O density chip package interconnections 2 3 . The lateral compliance of such interconnects can easily accommodate the displacement caused by the CTE mismatch. These interconnects can deform elastically in response to thermal or mechanical loads thereby potentially increasing the testability and reliability of assembled wafer level packages. The design of compliant interconnects is of critical importance in optimizing their electrical and mechanical characteristics. These characteristics are intrinsically linked and both depend on the geometry of the structures and the properties of the materials used.

As previously noted conventional compliant interconnect approaches have very complicated processing steps 2 and the electrical properties are generally compromised to achieve the mechanical performance 3 . Achieving compliance with simple metallic structures is difficult because of their inherently high stiffness. Advanced polymers with ultra low stiffness on the order of 0.5 GPa and Simatched CTE 3 ppm C. are now being synthesized for onchip interconnect and packaging applications. These polymers have 100 200 times lower stiffness than most metals making it far easier to achieve compliance even with straight and short structures. Conductivity can be achieved with a metal coating on the polymer surface. Due to the skin effect as long as the metal coating is large in thickness compared with the skin depth at the operating frequencies of interest there is little to no degradation in electrical performance in polymer core structures compared to metallic structures.

Therefore it can be seen that a need yet exists for an interconnect that can provide improved electrical performance while lowering the stresses at the interfaces by orders of magnitude. It is to such a structure being a high aspect ratio metal coated polymer structure that the present invention is primarily directed. These polymer based structures can also simplify the processing steps and result in tremendous cost reductions.

 2 Muhannid Bakir James Meindl et al. Sea of lead ultrahigh density compliant wafer level packaging technology IEEE Piscataway pp. 1087 1094.

 3 Lunyu Ma Qi Zhu and Suresh Sitaramanm J Springs Innovative Compliant Interconnects for Next Generation Packaging IEEE Piscataway pp. 1359 1365.

Briefly described in a preferred form the present invention provides an optimum solution for high I O microprocessor packages with very fine pitches and extremely high mechanical reliability and electrical performance at low costs. The invention presents a low temperature process that combines high aspect ratio polymer structures with electroless copper nickel plating to fabricate compliant polymer coated interconnects for nano wafer level packaging. The invention utilizes low cost materials and processes with a fairly simplified geometry while retaining preferable mechanical and electrical performance.

Ultra low stiffness metal coated polymer interconnects of the present invention provide the required compliance without achieving complicated geometries that damage the electrical performance of interconnects.

While polymers like SU8 are unsuitable low CTE polymers that are compatible CTE matched with board and IC and low stiffness polymers that can act as stress buffers and thus induce minimal stresses at the interfaces and joints are advantageous. CTE high strength polyimides and low stiffness polynorbornene are preferable polymers for the present application. These polymers also limit or eliminate the geometry restrictions high aspect ratio and hence will not comprise the electrical performance.

In preferred embodiments the polymer has a stiffness less than approximately 1 GPa as compared to other metallic interconnects with stiffness of 100 GPa hence lowering the interfacial stress by several orders of magnitude.

The present invention comprises the processing of high aspect ratio for example 1 5 4 micron wide and 20 micron tall with 8 micron pitch metal coated polymer structures that can provide the electrical and mechanical performance required of interconnects while lowering the stresses at the interfaces by several orders.

In one embodiment a commercial high temperature polynorbornene based thermosetting polymer with ultra low stiffness approximately 0.5 GPa that can act as a stress buffer is used for the metal coated polymer interconnect for nano wafer level packaging applications. The micro machining is done with plasma reactive ion etching. The etching conditions Oxygen fluorine ratio pressure power are optimized to get the required high aspect ratio geometry side wall definition while maintaining the rough surfaces suitable for subsequent electroless plating and minimal residue formation in between the 3 5 micron structures. For example while PI 2611 is a superior polymer for the present application it is not available in photodefinable form. In such cases dry plasma etching can achieve the required polymer aspect ratios. Electroless plating selectively occurs on the roughened polymeric surface because of specific catalyst interaction with the polymers. The dry etching results in a wall angle of approximately 80 degrees and can lead to an aspect ratio higher than 4.

The etching process also leads to roughened side walls that can give selective electroless plating on the side walls of the polymer structures.

Fine pitch chip package interconnections of the present invention can be achieved with electroless nickel plating approximately micron on the roughened polymeric surface.

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent upon reading the following specification in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now in detail to the figures wherein like reference numerals represent like parts throughout the several views shows the interfacial shear stresses at joints as a function of pitch using different interconnect materials including polymers solder copper and carbon nanotube. Polymer interconnects present lowest stresses at the joints. The stresses were computed by modeling the IC board interconnects using elastic beam theory 4 .

Electroless copper adhesion to untreated polymers is typically poor due to the original smooth polymer surface. To achieve sufficient adhesion chemical treatment is generally used because of its simplicity and low cost. While a Cr layer is typically used to improve the adhesion strengths in sputtering processes complemented with oxygen plasma treatment to increase the reactivity of Cr resulting in metal oxide with higher peel strengths 5 surface roughening techniques are usually employed for direct copper electroless plating. Though permanganate etching is used for its low cost oxygen plasma etching is also known to induce comparable surface roughening more than that achieved from ion etching 6 . Hong et al. report that the adhesion strengths of copper on epoxies are 2.7 N mm 4.2 N mmand 8.8 N mmwith bare copper Cr adhesive layer and plasma roughening respectively 7 . Adhesion strengths achieved with electroless plating on permanganate etched epoxies are found to be 9.5 10 N mm almost approaching that of laminated copper.

The adhesion strength of electroless copper with epoxy depends on the extent of mechanical interlocking and thereby the surface morphology of epoxy plays an important role in defining the adhesion. Micron level anchoring structures are shown to provide the best adhesion. Conventional epoxies are frequently blended with a soluble imidazole Vs Amine hardner or removable filler silica to achieve the required submicron to micron range topography that improves the adhesion 8 . In testing Oxygen Fluorocarbon plasma or conventional permanganate wet etching treatment did not create enough roughening of the SU8. Insufficient sidewall roughening resulted in poor adhesion and possible delamination of plating on the sidewalls.

SU8 is a brittle polymer with tensile strength and elongation to failure typically reported as 40 50 MPa and 5 as compared to other conventional epoxies 80 MPa 8 or polyimide 200 300 MPa 12 . Because of its high strength polyimide can be a more reliable mechanical structure. It becomes a logical choice to select a polymer material that has sufficient strength for high mechanical reliability as well as should have good adhesion with the electroless plated copper. Thus polynorbornene 0.5 GPa modulus and polyimide 3 ppm C CTE were selected for testing.

High aspect ratio structures with far higher toughness and strength were fabricated as shown in the process flow in . Micro machining of polymer coating is carried out with dry plasma etching that leads to the required surface roughening. A typical optical micrograph of dry etched polymeric structures in comparison with photo defined SU8 followed by plasma etching is shown in . The etching conditions Oxygen fluorine ratio pressure power can be optimized to get the required high aspect ratio geometry and sidewall definition while maintaining the rough surfaces suitable for subsequent electroless plating. In testing electroless plating selectively occurs on the roughened polymeric surface because of specific catalyst interaction with the roughened polymers. Dry etching typically leads to grass effect as discussed by Li and Hess 9 . A subsequent ultrasonication step can clean the structures effectively. show the polymer structures before and after ultrasonic cleaning.

Electroless plating involves reduction of complexed copper ions using formaldehyde in aqueous solution. It has several advantages over electroplating because of its excellent selectivity excellent conformability and does not require direct electrical contact. Electroless copper adhesion to untreated epoxy is typically poor due to the original smooth polymer surface. To achieve sufficient adhesion chemical treatment is generally used because of its simplicity and low cost.

1. Swell Diethylene glycol and n butyl ether cleans conditions and activates surfaces making them more susceptible to subsequent etching.

4. Predip Catalyst Tin palladium chloride to seed non conductive surfaces for uniform and complete deposition of copper.

5. Electroless plate Typically comprises a source of copper ions copper sulfate an active reducing agent formaldehyde sodium hydroxide a complexing agent such as EDTA Ethylene Diamine Tetra Acetic Acid . The plating rate is typically 5 microns hr at 45 C. The molds were electroless plated with copper to thickness greater than 2 microns.

A typical high aspect ratio low CTE 3 ppm C polyimide structure with an aspect ratio more than 4 is shown in . The dry etching results in a wall angle close to 80 degrees and can lead to an aspect ratio greater than 4. The etching process also leads to roughened sidewalls that can give selective electroless plating on the sidewalls of the polymer structures .

Li and Hess report that higher powers in reactive ion etching resulted in increased generation of reactive radicals and therefore greater etching 9 . Higher power also causes greater acceleration of ions leading to more physical sputtering. Hence the overall etch rate is a strong function of power. Pressure has two opposing effects on etch rate. As the pressure is decreased the DC bias increases which increases the etch rate by increased sputtering. On the other hand the density of radicals and ions is less at lower pressures which leads to lower etch rates.

It was also observed that conditions that promote high etch rates also result in worse uniformity 9 . The etch rate is always higher at the wafer edge and gradually decreases toward the center indicating a local gas phase depletion effect. Since the uniformity improves with increasing flow depletion of Fluoride radicals must be the limiting factor for uniformity. In general higher powers and the corresponding higher etch rates cause greater depletion and hence worse uniformity. Lower pressure and the corresponding higher gas velocity reduce gas phase depletion effects and hence improve uniformity. This effect of pressure on uniformity is stronger at higher powers where the depletion effect is greater.

An electroless process was then used to deposit nanostructured copper film on the polymer structures without an external power source. The incorporation of additives requires careful control of the plating solution selection of reducing agents and control over processing conditions. The copper grain size was of the order of 20 30 nm. Uniform metal deposition and constant plating rate are maintained by rigid control of pH and concentration of chemicals in the stabilized plating bath. Since the plating process is strictly chemical it evenly coats the surface of polymer structures . Large area fabrication of these metal coated polymer interconnect structures are shown in .

The advantages of getting fine pitch interconnects can be availed by having an elegant bonding method with nanodimensional bonding interfaces. Lead free solder films formed from electroless plating can be used to bond these interconnects with the copper pads on the substrate 10 . This technology can be easily downscaled to any geometry and therefore is a promising solution to address future I O requirements.

As previously discussed metallic structures are widely being used for various MEMS and interconnect applications though they show severe limitations in performance and reliability. The present invention provides a metal polymer composite structures to replace metallic structures for IC package interconnects. Analytical modeling was used to show the advantages of such composite structures. High aspect ratio copper coated polyimide structures can be fabricated from plasma etching and electroless copper plating. Side wall adhesion of metal to the polymer and polymer adhesion to the underlying substrates are critical for processing of metal coated polymers. While photodefinable polymers can simplify the processing cost dry plasma etching process can give more flexibility in the selection of polymers. Metal polymer composite structures are also suitable for several other applications like tunable capacitors for MEMS based RF components. Similar structures for high Q inductors 11 are being recognized.

While the invention has been disclosed in its preferred forms it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications additions and deletions can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and its equivalents as set forth in the following claims.

 4 Vandevelde B. Christians F. Beyne E. Roggen J. Peeters J. Allaert K. Vandepitte D. Bergmans J. IEEE Transactions on Flip chip assemblies components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology Part A Volume 21 Issue 1 March 1998.

 5 Lara J. Martin Study on metal adhesion mechanisms in high density interconnect Printed Circuit Boards IEEE Piscataway N.J. USA pp. 549 557.

 6 J. Ge R. Tuominen and J. K. Kivilahti Adhesion between photosensitive epoxy and electroless copper 2000. 4th International Conference on 18 21 Jun. 2000 pp. 248 252.

 8 Fuhan Liu Venky Sundaram Ankur O. Aggarwal George White Dean Sutter Rao Tummala Micro Board Technology Development at the Packaging Research Center pp. 187 192 Apr. 16 18 2003 Tokyo Japan.

 9 Yiming Li and Dennis Hess Plasma etching of thick polynorbornene layers for electronic packaging applications Microelectronics and Nanometer Structures v 20 n 5 2002 pp. 2007 2012.

 10 Ankur O. Aggarwal I R Abothu P. Markondeya Raj M. D. Sacks Rao R. Tummala New paradigm in IC package interconnections by reworkable nano interconnects Proceedings Electronic Components and Technology Conference 2004 unpublished.

 11 Ryong Kyu Yoon Jin Woo Park and Mark Allen RFMEMS based on epoxy core conductors Hilton Head Island S.C. Jun. 2 6 2002 pp. 374 375.

