---

title: Superconductor analog-to-digital converter
abstract: A superconducting Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC) employing rapid-single-flux-quantum (RSFQ) logic is disclosed. The ADC has only superconductor active components, and is characterized as being an N-order bandpass sigma-delta ADC, with the order “N” being at least 2. The ADC includes a sequence of stages, which stages include feedback loops and resonators. The ADC further includes active superconducting components which directionally couple resonator pairs of adjacent stages. The active superconducting components electrically shield the higher order resonator from the lower order resonator. These active superconductor components include a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) amplifier, which is inductively coupled to the higher order resonator, and may include a Josephson transmission line (JTL), which is configured to electrically connect the SQUID amplifier to the lower order resonator. The first stage of ADC may employ an implicit feedback loop.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07598897&OS=07598897&RS=07598897
owner: HYPRES, Inc.
number: 07598897
owner_city: Elmsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071213
---
The invention was produced under U.S. Army CERDEC SBIR Contracts W15P7T 04 C K605 and DAAB07 03 C D202 and U.S. Navy ONR Contract N0014 02 C 0171. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to superconducting electronics. In particular it relates to oversampled Analog to Digital Converters.

One well known class of analog to digital converters ADCs is based on oversampling in which a single bit quantizer with feedback is used to generate a fast bit sequence that can accurately represent an analog input signal in the band of interest. This requires high sampling rates for which superconducting electronics is particularly well suited.

The established approach to an oversampling low pass ADC is based on sigma delta modulation also called delta sigma modulation in which the input signal minus a feedback signal is integrated before quantization. This is well known to result in noise shaping where the quantization noise associated with the data conversion is shifted outside the frequency band of interest. The shifted noise may then be eliminated by a subsequent digital filter. This approach has been generalized to higher order with multiple integrators and multiple feedback loops by which the noise shifting is further enhanced. For the higher order approach to work properly each integrator must be well isolated from its neighbor. In conventional semiconductor technology this isolation is achieved with transistor amplifiers.

A further known generalization of modulators is achieved by replacing the integrators by high Q resonators. This suppresses the quantization noise at a resonant frequency rather than at low frequencies and forms the basis for a bandpass ADC. Again improved higher order performance requires good isolation between the resonators.

Superconducting circuits based on Josephson junctions in configurations known as rapid single flux quantum RSFQ logic can switch on the picosecond timescale leading to high sampling rates. Przybysz et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 140 324 described a first order single stage low pass sigma delta ADC based on Josephson junctions. Later this was extended to a first order single stage bandpass sigma delta ADC in U.S. Pat. No. 5 341 136. Both of these patents are incorporated herein by reference.

Lee et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 6 157 329 incorporated herein by reference demonstrated that one can avoid a feedback loop in a superconducting bandpass modulator by making use of a special feature of Josephson circuits known as implicit feedback. This technique provides electrical feedback without an explicit loop. However this approach is applicable only to first order one stage feedback. So far a higher order bandpass ADC in fully superconducting technology has not been achieved.

In view of the discussed difficulties embodiments of the present invention disclose a superconducting Analog to Digital Converter ADC without active semiconductor components which is characterized as being an N order bandpass sigma delta ADC. The ADC includes a sequence of stages which stages include resonators. Each one of these resonators uniquely pertains to one of the stages. The stages number N with N being at least 2. The stages and the resonators are being characterized by their order in the sequence with the order having values from 1 through N. The analog signal to be digitized is received by the N th order stage. The ADC further includes active superconducting components that directionally couple resonator pairs having adjacent orders. The active superconducting components electrically shield the higher order resonator from the lower order resonator. These active superconducting components include a superconducting quantum interference device SQUID amplifier which is inductively coupled to the higher order resonator and may include a Josephson transmission line JTL which is configured to electrically connect the SQUID amplifier to the lower order resonator.

It is understood that sigma delta analog to digital converters ADC also known as modulators or delta sigma modulators ADC s are well known in the electronic arts. Basic concepts of superconductor ADC s meaning ADC s composed of superconducting components which components may include both active and passive components have been discussed already for instance by O. A. Mukhanov et al. in Superconductor Analog to Digital Converters Proc. IEEE Vol. 92 pp. 1564 1584 2004 .

Briefly in a low pass ADC based on sigma delta modulation the input signal minus an error feedback signal is integrated before quantization. A variation of ADC s is achieved by replacing the integrators by resonators. Using a resonator suppresses the quantization noise at a resonant frequency rather than at low frequencies. Such an ADC is called in the art a bandpass ADC. For both the low pass integrator type and the bandpass resonator type ADC s one can extend the ADC operation to higher order with multiple stages of integrators or resonators and with corresponding multiple feedback loops. Higher order ADC s enhance performance by shifting noise further away from the frequency band of interest. For the proper operation of higher order ADC s it is desirable that each integrator or resonator be well isolated from its lower order neighbor.

With semiconductor technology isolation of successive feedback stages involving either integrators or resonators is quite straightforward due to the amplification capabilities of transistors and both multistage low pass and bandpass ADC have been already been introduced. However since superconducting technology lacks a component such as a transistor in the art it was generally assumed that higher order ADC are not possible to achieve with superconductive technology. See for instance discussion in Q. P. Herr et al. in Inductive Isolation in Stacked SQUID Amplifiers IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductivity Vol. 17 pp. 565 568 2007 where semiconductor transistors are being applied in a hybrid semiconductor superconductor technology to realize a low pass two stage ADC.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are characterized as being higher order bandpass sigma delta ADC s employing superconductive technology having only superconductor active components. The use of superconductive technology allows for hitherto unattainable sampling performance as characterized by both frequency and accuracy.

The term active superconductor component in this disclosure carries the general accepted meaning used in the art. Active superconductive components generally involve tunnel junctions most commonly Josephson junctions JJ . Typical active superconductor components include single JJ s Josephson transmission lines JTL superconducting quantum interference devices SQUID and various combinations of these. Generally but not exclusively active superconducting components have some kind of bias condition for instance and without limitation a current bias. Active semiconductor components which are absent in embodiments of the present disclosure have their meaning in the art typically as transistors and diodes. Active semiconductor components usually but not exclusively operate under some kind of bias conditions as well.

The schematic of the superconducting bandpass ADC is not unlike the ones already known in the art. An Norder ADC has N stages. In embodiments of the present invention the N order of the ADC is at least 2. The stages are arranged in a sequence with the stages being characterized by their order in the sequence from 1 through N. In all repeated components such as stages resonators feedback loops are indicated with an i subscript with i taking on the value of the particular order. Thus for instance resonator being of order of 2 would have the indicator number . The stages each have a resonator with each one of the resonators uniquely pertaining to one of the stages . The analog RF signal to be digitized is being received by the highest order stage the one having order N. All other stages receive their inputs by combining two signals. One of these two signals is coming from a feedback loop . The other signal of the combination comes from the immediate higher order stage through amplification isolation A I components . Since these A I components are coupling adjacent order stage pairs their indicator numbers carry two subscripts namely the order of the coupled stages. Thus for instance the A I coupling stage to stage would be indicated as .

The output of the first order stage feeds into a clocked comparator . The comparator outputs pulses which pulses then proceed back into the feedback loops and to the output of the ADC. The resonators of the feedback loops convert the pulses back to analog signals.

In embodiments of the present disclosure all components of the ADC are superconductors used in the general framework of rapid single flux quantum RSFQ technology. The comparator generates single flux quantum SFQ pulses. Using only superconductor active components holds for the A I units. As discussed earlier the prevailing assumption in the art was that superconducting components are not suitable for such a role primarily because they are not capable for directional coupling. Without directional coupling the lower stage may electrically backward disturb the preceding higher order stage which may lead to instability in the whole of the ADC .

Embodiments of the present disclosure manifest that a high performance bandpass ADC is achievable with active superconductive components in the A I units between successive pairs of stages.

Both the SQUID amplifier and the JTL are well known active superconducting components see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 585 999 and 5 936 458 but have not been used in the role as disclosed in representative embodiments of the present invention. The SQUID amplifier requires a DC bias to operate so that it would not function properly with a low pass ADC. This DC bias is not a problem for a bandpass ADC where only alternating currents have to pass along the ADC. Also the SQUID amplifier may have some nonlinearity a disadvantage for optimum noise suppression. However in spite of such potential difficulties embodiments of the present disclosure show functioning of the bandpass ADC with unprecedented performance.

A superconducting ADC in one respect has a unique advantage compared to a semiconductor ADC. This advantage is a direct result of the quantum nature of Josephson junctions JJ . When a JJ clocked through a second JJ switches it subtracts a single flux quantum SFQ 2.07 fWb from the input while producing a digital output SFQ pulse. The comparator of the ADC may use such a two JJ scheme. The subtraction of the pulse from the input is precisely what a feedback loop would be doing in a ADC. Consequently there may not be a need for an explicit feedback loop for the first stage . The feedback can be implicit for the first stage . The possibility for such an implicit feedback for the first stage in a superconductor ADC using SFQ technology has already been demonstrated in the art see for instance Lee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 157 329. However the implicit feedback is useable only for the first stage of a ADC for higher order structures with N being at least 2 one is forced to use explicit feedback and the A I units are unavoidable. Hence the SFQ pulses produced by the comparator have to be propagated back into at least 1 of the feedback loops .

The signal to be digitized is being received by the second resonator while the first resonator feeds into the comparator JJ junction . The JJ junction comparator is generating SFQ pulses which are directed to the second stage feedback loop and to the ADC output .

The coupling between the two resonators is accomplished with components as discussed in connection with . A superconducting quantum interference device SQUID amplifier and a Josephson transmission line JTL provide non reciprocal directional coupling between the second resonator and the first resonator . The SQUID amplifier is inductively coupled to the second resonator . The JTL electrically connects the SQUID amplifier to the first resonator .

As discussed previously the ADC shown in and are often referred to in the art as modulators because they may be embedded into and are forming the core of a larger system. Such a system may be a digital radio frequency RF receiver. For converting an electromagnetic analog signal into a digital signal such a RF receiver may use a method involving a representative embodiment of the N order bandpass modulator.

Embodiments of the present invention are representative of RSFQ logic and are not tied to any given superconducting material or technology. Embodiments practiced with any superconductive material or materials including so called high Tsuperconductors are within the scope of the present disclosure.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element of any or all the claims.

Many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings and could be apparent for those skilled in the art. The scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

