---

title: Control algorithm for autothermal reformer
abstract: According to typical inventive practice, an algorithm controls a reformer in order to produce a pure hydrogen stream for a hydrogen-using device. The inventive algorithmic feedback control maintains the permeate hydrogen stream at a permeate pressure setpoint. Pressure measurements are performed of the permeate hydrogen stream. Control data (e.g., including a “lookup” table) establishes at least three output levels (scaled from zero output to maximum output) of the permeate hydrogen stream and, for each output level, five variable setpoints (air flow rate, hydrocarbon flow rate, and steam flow rate preceding the reformer reaction; steam flow rate preceding the water-gas shift reaction; shaft rotational speed in the energy recovery device). The pressure signals and the control data are processed to determine the optimal output level and the associated variable setpoints. Control signals are sent to adjust the variables to the determined variable setpoints.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08430938&OS=08430938&RS=08430938
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08430938
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070713
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 832 009 filing date 13 Jul. 2006 hereby incorporated herein by reference invention title Diesel Fuel Autothermal Reformer Control Algorithm sole inventor Steven P. Miller.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to hydrogen production more particularly to methods and apparatuses for producing hydrogen from hydrogenous carbonaceous substances such as natural gas e.g. methane ethane or propane organic waste gasoline diesel fuel oil coal methanol and ethanol.

Hydrogen the most abundant element in the universe usually occurs in nature as an element included in a compound e.g. hydrocarbonaceous or hydrous that also includes one or more non hydrogen elements. Pure hydrogen is non toxic odorless tasteless colorless and easily flammable and burns in daylight with no visible flame.

In order to be a standalone element H that is useful as a fuel hydrogen must be broken from its bonds with the accompanying element s . Known methodologies for breaking these bonds include reformation biomass gasification coal gasification and electrolysis of water. Generally speaking reforming involves the splitting of hydrogen and carbon so as to yield a mixture known as a synthesis gas or syn gas that contains hydrogen H and carbon monoxide CO . The resultant carbon monoxide CO can then be caused to react with steam gaseous HO so as to turn the carbon monoxide CO into carbon dioxide CO and release more hydrogen H . Electrolysis involves the use of electricity to split water liquid HO into hydrogen H and oxygen O . Contemplated but as yet undeveloped methodologies for producing hydrogen include photo electricity involving the splitting of water via sunlight photobiology involving the splitting of water via sunlight using organisms such as algae or bacteria and thermal dissociation involving the application of extreme heat via e.g. solar power or nuclear power to split hydrogenous compounds without generating carbon dioxide .

Fossil fuels are beset with environmental and economic concerns. Hydrogen fuel represents a viable alternative to fossil fuels albeit hydrogen is not a perfect fuel. Safety issues are concomitant production storage and use of hydrogen fuel and efficiency cost effectiveness deficits remain in current hydrogen production implementations. An advantage of hydrogen as a fuel is its capability of being produced from a variety of feed stocks including fossil fuels water and organic matter. Efforts continue in many countries to improve hydrogen production in terms of safety efficiency and cost effectiveness.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved methodology for producing pure hydrogen from a hydrocarbon hydrogenous carbonaceous substance .

The present invention s control algorithm as typically embodied controls the process inputs of an autothermal reformer system such as a diesel fuel autothermal reformer system in order to provide pure hydrogen. For instance practice of the present invention can serve to deliver a constant pressure feed stream of pure hydrogen to a hydrogen using device such as a proton exchange membrane fuel cell . According to typical inventive practice the inventive algorithm controls a hydrogen compressor an autothermal reformer compressor an autothermal reformer fuel pump an autothermal reformer water pump a water gas shift reactor water pump and a gas turbine generator. Control of the hydrogen compressor is provided by a PID controller that maintains a constant outlet pressure by varying input power to the compressor motor. A core process controller monitors the hydrogen compressor inlet pressure and varies the other outputs to different steady state operating levels in order to maximize system efficiency while allowing the system to respond to varying load levels on the hydrogen using device e.g. fuel cell .

Practice of the inventive control algorithm can render a thermal reformer system more responsive to rapid changes in system load and more capable of operating at maximum efficiency during steady state conditions. Moreover the inventive control algorithm can prevent the thermal reformer system from experiencing stall premature shutdown and dangerous conditions such as overheating over pressurization and over speeding.

In accordance with many embodiments of the present invention the present invention s computer program product is used in association with a reformer system in which an autothermal reaction is performed to combine oxygen containing gas e.g. air hydrocarbon e.g. fuel and steam and to produce a mixture containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide a water gas shift reaction is performed to combine steam with the mixture produced by the autothermal reaction and to produce a mixture containing hydrogen and carbon dioxide membrane separation is performed of hydrogen from non hydrogen ingredients of the mixture produced by the water gas shift reaction so as to produce a permeate hydrogen stream and energy is produced using shaft rotation. The inventive computer program product includes a computer useable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon for enabling the computer to maintain constancy of the permeate hydrogen stream at a permeate pressure setpoint. The computer program logic includes means for enabling the computer to receive signals indicative of the pressure of the permeate hydrogen stream means for enabling the computer to access control data means for enabling the computer to process the received signals and the control data so as to determine the optimal permeate hydrogen stream output level the optimal output level resulting in restoring the pressure of said permeate hydrogen stream to said permeate pressure setpoint means for enabling the computer to transmit control signals to adjust the variables in accordance with the group of subordinate setpoints that corresponds to the optimal output level. The control data includes plural at least three output levels on a scale from zero output to maximum output of the permeate hydrogen stream. The control data further includes plural subordinate setpoints. Each output level has corresponding thereto a group of e.g. five subordinate setpoints. Each subordinate setpoint represents one of plural e.g. five variables including the mass flow rate of the oxygen containing gas prior to the autothermal reaction the mass flow rate of the hydrocarbon prior to the autothermal reaction the mass flow rate of the steam prior to the autothermal reaction the mass flow rate of the steam prior to the water gas shift reaction and the speed of the shaft rotation. As the present invention is frequently practiced cooling and compressing of the permeate hydrogen stream is performed in the reformer system so as to produce a delivery hydrogen stream. The computer program logic is further for enabling the computer to maintain constancy of the delivery hydrogen stream at a delivery pressure setpoint. The control data further includes the delivery pressure setpoint. The computer program logic further includes means for enabling the computer to receive signals indicative of the pressure of the delivery hydrogen stream and means for enabling said computer to transmit control signals to adjust the pressure of the delivery hydrogen stream in accordance with the delivery pressure setpoint.

Various aspects of the present invention are disclosed in the following paper incorporated herein by reference Steven P. Miller John M. Heinzel John H. Kuseian Donald J. Hoffman and Edward M. House A Dynamic Model of a Shipboard PEM Fuel Cell Reformer System with an Integrated Gas Turbine Proceedings of GT 2006 ASME Turbo Expo 2006 Power for Land Sea and Air The 51st Annual Technical Congress Exposition for the Worldwide Gas Turbine Community May 8 11 2006 Barcelona Spain American Society of Mechanical Engineers ASME GT2006 90739 8 pages .

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Reference is now made to through which illustrate an autothermal reformer system suitable for practice of inventive algorithmic control. The autothermal reformer system being controlled by the present invention includes three reactors a separation membrane a sorbent bed heat exchangers pumps compressors and a turbine. The inventive algorithm can be practiced in association with an autothermal reformer system lacking a sorbent bed. The United States Navy has demonstrated an autothermal reformer system test prototype similar to that diagrammatically represented in . It is emphasized that the present invention admits of practice involving diesel fuel or any of a variety of other hydrocarbons. It is further emphasized that the present invention admits of practice involving delivery of pure hydrogen to a fuel cell type device e.g. fuel cell stack or to any of a variety of other hydrogen using devices.

In this diesel fuel autothermal reformer system three ingredients compressed air high pressure steam and pressurized diesel fuel are injected into an autothermal reformer reactor ATR. Particularly as depicted in through autothermal reformer reactor ATR accepts diesel fuel steam and air as inputs and provides a hot syn gas Hand CO mixture also known as the reformate as output. Diesel fuel steam and air are fed to autothermal reformer reactor ATR from fuel supply FS steam generator SG and energy recovery device ER respectively. According to typical inventive practice the respective flow rates of the fuel steam and air entering the autothermal reformer reactor ATR are three of the variables controlled by the inventive control algorithm.

Autothermal reformer reactor ATR is essentially a pressure vessel containing a bed of catalysts suitable for the reaction chemistry. The fuel air and steam all react together to form a single product mixture that is approximately at chemical equilibrium. The product mixture put out by autothermal reformer reactor ATR depends on the composition of the inlet stream as well as the temperature of the products. Typically the air supplied is only a fraction in the neighborhood of 10 of the theoretical amount required to fully oxide the fuel. The oxidation of the fuel releases significant amounts of heat. The steam also reacts with the products of the oxidation reaction to product hydrogen and methane. These reactions may release or absorb heat. The temperature of the products thus depends on the composition and temperature of the reactants. The products the reformate stream are typically at a pressure similar to the inlet. In the U.S. Navy s autothermal reformer system prototype the pressure in the autothermal reformer reactor ATR was nominally 7 atmospheres.

According to the autothermal reformer system embodiment described herein the autothermal reformer reactor ATR is run in such a way as to maximize hydrogen production. Inevitably significant amounts of carbon monoxide CO are produced as well. Other products include nitrogen N carbon dioxide CO water vapor HO and methane CH . Any sulfur S that was present in the fuel put into autothermal reformer reactor ATR is converted by autothermal reformer reactor ATR into hydrogen sulfide HS . The products of autothermal reformer reactor ATR are then cooled by passing through recuperator REC which acts as a heat exchanger. Recuperator REC recycles some of the heat released by the reactions of autothermal reformer reactor ATR. The mixture exits recuperator REC and then passes through gas phase desulfurizer DS a sorbent bed that adsorbs the hydrogen sulfide thus removing it from the gaseous mixture.

The remaining gases then enter the water gas shift reactor WGS. In addition some supplemental steam that is fed from steam generator SG is also added at this stage. According to typical inventive practice the flowrate of this separately provided steam entering water gas shift reactor WGS is one of the variables controlled by the inventive control algorithm. Water gas shift reactor WGS is a catalytic reactor similar to autothermal reformer reactor ATR but differs insofar as using a special catalyst that only allows the water gas shift reaction to take place. The water gas shift reaction combines carbon monoxide and steam to form hydrogen gas and carbon dioxide CO HO CO H. This reaction needs to take place at a temperature lower than the temperature at which autothermal reformer reactor ATR operates.

Next the products of water gas shift reactor WGS enter membrane separator SEP a hydrogen separation membrane vessel containing a special membrane that permits only hydrogen to permeate through. The gases that do not permeate through membrane separator SEP are called the retentate. Typically about 70 90 of the hydrogen permeates through membrane separator SEP to form a very high purity hydrogen gas that exits therefrom at sub atmospheric pressure. The membrane selectively permeates hydrogen so as to permit less than 1 ppm of sulfur or carbon monoxide to pass through. The retentate gases exit the membrane to form the raffinate stream which are still at a pressure similar to that of the reformate stream. The reason for the difference in pressures is that the permeation is driven by pressure differentials and thus the reformate must be supplied at high pressure and the pressure on the permeate side of the membrane must be held low.

The high purity hydrogen is pulled through membrane separator SEP by a vacuum applied to the permeate side of membrane separator SEP. This vacuum is created by hydrogen compressor HC a compressor e.g. a variable speed positive displacement compressor that is driven by motor M. Hydrogen compressor HC brings the hydrogen gas up to the pressure required by the fuel cell stack FC to operate. The combination including hydrogen precooler HPC hydrogen compressor HC and hydrogen aftercooler HAC is styled herein a cooling and compression increased pressurization device CC. The speed of hydrogen compressor HC is one of the variables that are controlled by the inventive control algorithm. Since this compression by hydrogen compressor HC generates heat and the hydrogen gas permeating through the membrane separator SEP is already at high temperatures typically above 400 Celsius heat exchangers HPC and HAC are positioned upstream and downstream respectively of the hydrogen compressor HC to cool the hydrogen gas. After passing through the second heat exchanger HAC the hydrogen gas is sent to the fuel cell FC for consumption.

Meanwhile the raffinate gases proceed to a catalytic burner reactor CB a pressure vessel and catalyst bed that is similar to autothermal reformer reactor ATR and water gas shift reactor WGS. Prior to entering catalytic burner CB the raffinate gases pass through a throttling mechanism TM to drop in pressure down to a nominal pressure of 3 atmospheres. Throttling mechanism TM located upstream of catalytic burner CB would ideally be a regulating valve that would maintain a fixed pressure on the retentate side of the separation membrane regardless of flowrate however the model wherein the inventive algorithm was first demonstrated used a fixed geometry orifice and thus the pressures would vary with flowrate. Catalytic burner CB combines the raffinate gases with compressed air to oxide the remaining combustible species in the raffinate stream. The catalysts aid the combustion of the raffinate with the air. The product is a mixture of carbon dioxide water vapor residual oxygen and nitrogen at high temperature. Catalytic burner CB thus provides hot compressed gas for energy recovery device ER.

Energy recovery device ER includes main compressor MC turbine expander TRB generator G and turbine shaft . The combination including main compressor MC turbine expander TRB generator G and shaft can be embodied as a commercially available microturbine. The combustion products of catalytic burner CB enter turbine expander TRB where the combustion products are allowed to expand and depressurize. In the process a significant amount of shaft power is generated. This shaft power is used to drive main compressor MC e.g. a centrifugal compressor in order to partially compress the air being supplied to the autothermal reformer reactor ATR and in order to supply compressed air for the catalytic burner CB reaction.

Due to the high operating pressure of the autothermal reformer reactor ATR a second compression stage is required. The partially compressed air that exits main compressor MC is compressed again by a second compressor viz. autothermal reformer reactor ATR compressor AC before being injected into the autothermal reformer reactor ATR. The ATR compressor AC e.g. a variable speed positive displacement type driven by motor M is capable of controlling the flowrate of air entering into the autothermal reformer reactor ATR. According to typical inventive practice the speed of motor Mis one of the variables that are controlled by the inventive control algorithm.

Turbine expander TRB generates more power than is required by main compressor MC therefore a generator G is fitted to the turbine shaft to absorb the excess power and generate electricity. The amount of power produced by generator G is one of the variables controlled by the inventive control algorithm as typically practiced. Reducing the load on generator G will allow the shaft to accelerate on the other hand increasing the load on generator G will cause the shaft to decelerate. In the inventive prototypical system tested by the U.S. Navy generator G was set to maintain a fixed shaft speed. When mounted on a single shaft the main compressor MC the turbine expander TRB and the generator G together constitute a microturbine like assembly as it bears similarity to commercially available microturbine generator units in fact some inventive embodiments can implement an off the shelf microturbine unit for such energy recovery purposes.

According to typical inventive practice in order to provide stable and efficient operation the inventive control algorithm should maintain an optimal steam to carbon ratio and air to fuel ratio within autothermal reformer reactor ATR. Further the inventive control algorithm should maintain an optimal steam to carbon ratio in water gas shift reactor WGS. Moreover with regard to selecting a suitable or optimal permeate hydrogen pressure it may be worthy of consideration that membrane separator SEP may tend to operate more efficiently when the permeate hydrogen pressure is lower whereas hydrogen compressor HC may tend to operate more efficiently when the permeate hydrogen pressure is higher. Catalytic burner CB requires a stoichiometric flow of air from main compressor MC in order to fully oxidize the raffinate flow from membrane separator SEP.

After passing through the turbine expander TRB the combustion products enter a heat recovery steam generator SG which is a heat exchanger that uses the hot exhaust products to boil water for steam. The steam produced by steam generator SG is used as respective feeds for autothermal reformer reactor ATR and water gas shift reactor WGS. As pointed out hereinabove according to typical inventive practice these two steam flowrates entering autothermal reformer reactor ATR and water gas shift reactor WGS respectively are two of the variables controlled by the inventive control algorithm. The combustion products are then exhausted.

Still with reference to through and also with reference to through the inventive control algorithm monitors two primary hydrogen pressure variables. Particularly as shown in the first primary hydrogen pressure variable is the hydrogen permeate stream pressure i.e. the pressure of the hydrogen stream immediately exiting membrane separator SEP. The second primary hydrogen pressure variable is the hydrogen delivery stream pressure i.e. the pressure of the hydrogen stream immediately exiting cooling and compression device CC e.g. immediately exiting hydrogen aftercooler HAC . In other words the hydrogen delivery stream pressure is the pressure of the hydrogen stream being delivered to a hydrogen using device such as a fuel cell FC.

The inventive algorithm thus has two main algorithmic control components that are independent of each other. The first main algorithmic control component monitors the hydrogen permeate stream pressure and controls the autothermal reformer system at several junctures in order to maintain constancy of the hydrogen permeate stream pressure. This first main algorithmic control component is more complicated than the second main algorithmic control component which monitors the hydrogen delivery stream pressure and controls via motor M the speed of the hydrogen compressor HC in order to maintain constancy of the hydrogen delivery stream pressure at the delivery hydrogen pressure setpoint . As illustrated in and the first main algorithmic control component involves master PID controller and subordinate PID controllers and the second main algorithmic control component involves HD component .

According to typical inventive practice both main algorithmic control components implement Proportional Integral Derivative PID algorithmic control code. A HD controller is a control loop feedback mechanism commonly known and widely utilized in a variety of industrial contexts. Generally speaking the setpoint or set point or set value is the target value that a PID controller automatically and continually strives to reach. A PID controller algorithm usually involves a Proportional mode an Integral mode and a Derivative mode. The error the difference between the setpoint and the measured value is repeatedly corrected by the PID controller. In each correction the PID controller outputs to a control element a value representing a weighted sum of the three PID control modes thereby bringing the diverging measured value back to the setpoint. PID type control can be effected in the absence of one or two of the PID control modes. For instance a HD controller that does not effect derivative mode is technically speaking a PI controller. As another example a PID controller that effects neither proportional mode nor derivative mode is technically speaking an I controller in fact the present inventor has found that exercising I control only can work adequately in the context of practicing the present invention. For purposes of the instant disclosure the term PID when used to modify terms such as controller control or algorithm denotes one two or all three PID control modes. As an alternative to PID controllers analytical controllers can be inventively implemented that are based on dynamics of various devices included in the autothermal reformer system however PID controllers are conventionally used in industry and analytical controllers are far less common and far more expensive.

According to the present invention s first main algorithmic control component the hydrogen permeate stream pressure setpoint i.e. the target constancy of the hydrogen permeate stream pressure is maintained by sensing the hydrogen permeate stream pressure via pressure sensor PS and by controlling various parameters as elaborated upon hereinbelow. According to the present invention s second main algorithmic control component the hydrogen delivery stream pressure setpoint i.e. the target constancy of the hydrogen delivery stream pressure is maintained by sensing the hydrogen delivery stream pressure via pressure sensor PS and by controlling through adjustment of motor M the speed of the hydrogen compressor HC. According to typical inventive practice the setpoint for the delivery hydrogen pressure is significantly higher than the setpoint for the permeate hydrogen pressure. For instance in the inventive prototype the permeate hydrogen pressure setpoint was about 0.3 atmospheres and the delivery hydrogen pressure setpoint was about 1.5 atmospheres. Constancy is separately maintained of both the permeate hydrogen pressure and the delivery hydrogen pressure. The maintenance of a constant differential between the permeate hydrogen pressure and the delivery hydrogen pressure furthers the efficiency of the autothermal reformer system.

The first main algorithmic control component monitors the hydrogen pressure of the permeate side of the separation membrane SEP. This hydrogen pressure is maintained at a constant value the permeate hydrogen pressure setpoint by controlling several other control points of the autothermal reformer system including the following the air flow rate to the autothermal reformer reactor ATR the fuel flow rate to the autothermal reformer reactor ATR the steam flow rate to the autothermal reformer reactor ATR the steam flow rate to the water gas shift reactor WGS and the rotational speed of turbine generator G in energy recovery device ER .

As shown in and the ATR steam and the ATR fuel are mixed together in mixer MIX prior to being conveyed to autothermal reformer reactor ATR. The ATR fuel flow rate and the ATR steam flow rate are each controlled prior to being mixed in mixer MIX. Even if the thermal reformer system were configured without a mixer the present invention would be similarly practiced so as to control the fuel flow rate and the steam flow rate. The present invention can be practiced in association with a variety of thermal reformer configurations. Of particular note it is not necessary that the steam and fuel be mixed prior to conveyance to a reformer reactor as they can be separately conveyed to the reformer reactor. Otherwise stated regardless of whether or not the fuel and the steam are mixed prior to being conveyed to the reformer reactor the fuel flow rate and the steam flow rate can be independently controlled in accordance with inventive principles.

The present invention s first main algorithmic control component features the simultaneous control and balancing of these five subordinate variables. The air flow rate to the autothermal reformer reactor ATR is controlled by adjusting the electrical power applied to the motor M and hence for instance the speed of autothermal reformer reactor compressor AC to which the motor Mis attached . The fuel flow rate to the autothermal reformer reactor ATR is controlled by adjusting the ATR fuel pump FP alternatively an electrically controlled valve SV such as a servo valve can be used instead of a fuel pump FP and the fuel flow rate can be controlled by adjusting the electrically controlled valve SV. As further described hereinbelow with reference to through the steam flow rate to the autothermal reformer reactor ATR is controlled by adjusting a water pump or a steam valve that is associated with a steam generator SG and the steam flow rate to the water gas shift reactor WGS is similarly controlled by adjusting a water pump or a steam valve that is associated with the same steam generator SG. The rotational speed of energy recovery device ER s shaft which turns turbine expander TRB and main compressor MC is controlled by adjusting the electrical load applied to and hence the power produced by generator G.

Established in accordance with typical inventive practice is set of look up data such as a control table shown by way of example in and contextually depicted in and . Control table correlates different permeate hydrogen output levels with specific autothermal reforming process parameters. The permeate hydrogen output levels are measured as a fraction of maximum hydrogen output. As shown in the permeate hydrogen output levels are on a percentage based fractional scale from 0 to 100 which is equivalent to a purely unitary fractional scale from 0 to 1. Either percentage based or unitary fractional denotation can be suitable for inventive practice. The permeate hydrogen output level is a dimensionless value having no inherent physical basis and is solely used as an index for the inventive control table . The permeate hydrogen output level primarily relates to the mass flow rate e.g. in kg hr of the permeate hydrogen stream. The terms flow rate mass flow rate and mass flow are used synonymously herein. Each output fraction entry in the permeate hydrogen output level column of control table has corresponding thereto along the same row setpoint entries for the five process controls ATR air mass flow rate ATR fuel mass flow rate ATR steam mass flow rate WGS steam mass flow rate turbine generator speed of the present invention s first main algorithmic control component.

As diagrammed in computer includes a processor and a memory . According to frequent inventive practice computer is embodied as a commercially available microcontroller which conventionally describes a computer chip that includes a processor e.g. CPU a non volative memory e.g. ROM or flash for a computer program a volatile memory e.g. RAM for input and output a clock and an input output I O control unit. Lookup table the set of data listing or otherwise indicating output fractional setpoints from zero to one or from zero percent to one hundred percent and their corresponding subordinate setpoints is input e.g. installed in the non volatile component of memory . Also input e.g. installed in the non volatile component of memory is the PID controller software code containing the functions for PID controllers and . The present invention is typically practiced so that computer describes a computer unit containing and effecting all of the storage processing and control functions in accordance with the present invention here the PID controllers are actually not individual pieces of hardware but are actually individual software and data components along with the lookup table of the inventive algorithmic control computer program product that is executable by processor .

In an ongoing manner computer receives from pressure sensor PS into the volatile component of memory electrical signals indicative of the permeate hydrogen pressure. Using lookup table master PID controller finds the appropriate permeate hydrogen output level and translates therefrom to each of the five subordinate setpoints. Master PID controller communicates with each of the subordinate PID controllers and . Each of the subordinate PID controllers and communicates with a regulative device in the autothermal reformer system. At a given moment in time PID controller the master PID controller in the first main inventive algorithmic control component processes this signal so as to determine the appropriate value of hydrogen permeate output level such as encompassed by the output level values listed in the leftmost tabular column of . PID controller also determines corresponding to that determined appropriate value of hydrogen permeate output level the appropriate setpoint values of the five subordinate variables such as encompassed by the subordinate setpoint values listed in the remaining tabular columns of . Once the setpoint setting is obtained by PID controller for each of the individual subordinate process controls each of these subordinate setpoint values is fed by master PID controller to a different subordinate PID controller. Each subordinate PID controller controls the corresponding hardware. For instance the ATR air flow rate is transmitted by PID controller to PID controller which changes the speed of the ATR compressor AC. The ATR fuel flow rate is transmitted by PID controller to PID controller which changes the setting of the fuel pump FP or the electrically controlled valve SV . The ATR steam flow rate is transmitted by PID controller to PID controller which changes the setting of the water pump WP or WP. The WGS steam flow rate is transmitted by PID controller to HD controller which changes the setting of the water pump WP or WP. The turbine speed is transmitted by PID controller to PID controller which changes the load on the generator G.

In comportment with lookup table PID controller sends an electrical communicative signal indicative of the appropriate subordinate setpoint value to each of the five subordinate PID controllers viz. PID controllers and . HD controller signals to PID controller the appropriate setpoint value for the ATR air flow rate which is the value of the mass flow rate e.g. in kilograms hour of air entering autothermal reformer reactor ATR. In response to the signal received from PID controller PID controller receives an electrical communicative signal from flow meter FM and sends an electrical control signal to ATR compressor AC to change its speed to adjust the ATR air flow rate to the setpoint value. PID controller signals to PID controller the appropriate setpoint value for the ATR fuel flow rate which is the value of the mass flow rate e.g. in kg hr of fuel more generally hydrocarbon entering mixer MIX. In response to the signal received from PID controller PID controller sends an electrical control signal to fuel pump FP or to electrically controlled valve SV to adjust the ATR fuel flow rate to the setpoint value. PID controller signals to PID controller the appropriate setpoint value for the ATR steam flow rate which is the value of the mass flow rate e.g. in kg hr of steam entering mixer MIX. In response to the signal received from PID controller PID controller sends an electrical control signal to steam generator SG or to water pump WP or WP to adjust the ATR steam flow rate to the setpoint value. PID controller signals to PID controller the appropriate setpoint value for the WGS steam flow rate which is the value of the mass flow rate e.g. in kg hr of steam entering water gas shift reactor WGS. In response to the signal received from PID controller PID controller sends an electrical control signal to steam generator SG or to water pump WP or WP to adjust the WGS steam flow rate to the setpoint value. PID controller signals to PID controller the appropriate setpoint value for the rotational speed of turbine shaft . In response to the signal received from PID controller PID controller sends an electrical control signal to electrical generator G to adjust the turbine shaft rotational speed.

The lookup table control data is created by recording various setpoints for each of the five subordinate control variables. The optimal steady state operating points are recorded for various permeate hydrogen output levels ranging between the upper hydrogen flow rate limit e.g. hydrogen output level 100 as shown in and the lower hydrogen flow rate limit e.g. hydrogen output level 0 as shown in . Lookup table is based on tabulation of these steady state operating points. The primary index of lookup table is the permeate hydrogen output level a fraction representing the total permeate hydrogen flow rate divided by the maximum sustainable permeate hydrogen flow rate. The permeate hydrogen output level ranges from zero to one or from zero percent to one hundred percent where zero or zero percent indicates an idle condition and one or one hundred percent represents a maximum output condition.

These recorded setpoints can be interpolated or curve fit by the inventive practitioner e.g. with computer assistance prior to input and or by PID controller subsequent to input of lookup table to determine other hydrogen output target values setpoints for the inventive control algorithm. As a general rule the more data points are taken the better the accuracy of the inventive algorithm. Two techniques among others for determining these data points are optimization of a steady state model and experimentation with actual hardware. The inventive practitioner can exercise discretion as to the comprehensiveness of the set of hydrogen permeate pressure setpoint values that are input in memory . For instance lookup table can constitute relatively few permeate hydrogen output levels and their corresponding subordinate setpoints ATR air flow rate ATR fuel flow rate ATR steam flow rate WGS steam flow rate turbine speed such as the five tabular rows shown in with fewer output levels input in the non volatile component of memory it is left to PID controller to perform a greater degree of the mathematics e.g. interpolation or curve fit for determining the in between values of permeate hydrogen output levels and their corresponding in between subordinate setpoints. When the output level designated by PID controller does not match one of the output levels listed in lookup table the five subordinate setpoint values are linearly interpolated. Alternatively the inventive practitioner and or the PID controller uses curve fits instead of discrete data points.

According to typical inventive practice of the first main algorithmic control component of the inventive control algorithm the inventive control algorithm tracks and changes the permeate hydrogen output level of the autothermal reformer system in order to maintain constancy of the hydrogen permeate pressure. During operation master PID controller monitors the permeate hydrogen pressure and designates a permeate hydrogen output level appropriate to maintaining the desired permeate hydrogen pressure. Depending on the difference between the actual permeate hydrogen pressure and the target permeate hydrogen pressure for a given instant master PID controller continually adjusts the designated permeate hydrogen output level e.g. along the lefthand column in in order to minimize this difference. In general a low permeate hydrogen pressure indicates that the permeate hydrogen output level is too low whereas a high permeate pressure indicates that the permeate hydrogen output level is too high. On a continual basis at frequent intervals in the present invention s continuous feedback control loop the control table is used so as to cross reference the designated permeate hydrogen output level and so as to determine the appropriate settings for the five process controls. Master PID controller is preferably tuned such that the permeate hydrogen output level does not move faster than the ability of the subordinate PID controllers to follow thereby avoiding conditions in which the stoichiometry would change sufficiently to cause one or more components of the authothermal reformer system to operate outside of their acceptable ranges.

The present invention s first main algorithmic control component and second main algorithmic control component are autonomous versus each other. According to the present invention s second main algorithmic control component PID controller receives from pressure sensor PSan electrical communicative signal indicative of the hydrogen delivery stream pressure. The hydrogen delivery stream pressure setpoint is input in the non volatile component of memory of computer . On a continual feedback loop basis PID controller adjusts motor Mso as to control the speed of the hydrogen compressor HC and thereby maintain constant pressure at the setpoint of the hydrogen delivery stream.

With reference to through there are several options for controlling the ATR steam flow rate and the WGS steam flow rate. The control system shown in assumes that two separate water pumps viz. WPand WP are used for the ATR and WGS steam flows respectively and therefore two separate steam generator SG components are used. Alternative arrangements are shown in through wherein a single water pump WP and a single steam generator SG are implemented and wherein one or two valves are implemented to divide the flow between the ATR and WGS.

Alternative arrangements utilize a single valve on either the ATR line or the WGS line . According to either approach two flow rates would need to be measured. These flow rates can be any two of the following i the mass flow rate of steam into the ATR ii the mass flow rate of steam into the WGS iii the mass flow rate of water from the water pump. Given any two of these mass flow rates the third can be calculated by simple addition or subtraction. The water pump is PID controlled to deliver the total water mass flow rate based on the sum of the ATR and WGS individual steam flow rate setpoints. The valve is PID controlled to control the flow rate of one of the steam flow rates to either the autothermal reformer reactor ATR or the water gas shift reactor WGS. The selection of which steam line is inconsequential because as long as the water pump is flowing the correct amount of water and one of the reactors is receiving the correct steam flow rate the other reactor must also be receiving the correct steam flow rate. In this case the valve would ideally be placed on the steam line with the lower flow rate to reduce the size of the valve required and to minimize lost pump work.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

