---

title: Tamper reactive memory device to secure data from tamper attacks
abstract: Systems and methods that can facilitate securing data associated with a memory from tampering are presented. A counter tamper component can detect tamper attacks or tamper attempts associated with a memory and/or data stored therein or associated therewith and reacts to such tamper attacks/attempts, as the counter tamper component can provide evidence of, provide a response to, and/or resist tamper attacks/attempts. The counter tamper component can be associated with a memory module that includes a memory device(s) module and is contained in an electronic device and the memory module can change a color state to provide evidence of tampering. A window component is positioned on the casing of the electronic device so that the memory module is visible to the user so the user can perceive that a tamper attack associated with the module has occurred.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945792&OS=07945792&RS=07945792
owner: Spansion LLC
number: 07945792
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071017
---
A wide variety of memory devices can be used to maintain and store data and instructions for various computers and similar systems. In particular flash memory is a type of electronic memory media that can be rewritten and retain content without consumption of power. Unlike dynamic random access memory DRAM devices and static random memory SRAM devices in which a single byte can be erased flash memory devices are typically erased in fixed multi bit blocks or sectors. Flash memory technology can include NOR flash and or NAND flash for example. NOR flash evolved from electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM chip technology in which unlike flash a single byte can be erased and NAND flash evolved from DRAM technology. Flash memory devices can be less expensive and denser as compared to many other memory devices meaning that flash memory devices can store more data per unit area.

Flash memory has become popular at least in part because it combines the advantages of the high density and low cost of EPROM with the electrical erasability of EEPROM. Flash memory is non volatile it can be rewritten and can hold its content without power. It can be used in many portable electronic products such as cellular phones computers voice recorders thumbnail drives and the like as well as in many larger electronic systems such as automobiles airplanes industrial control systems etc. The fact that flash memory can be rewritten as well as its retention of data without a power source small size and light weight have all combined to make flash memory devices a useful and popular means for transporting and maintaining data.

Non volatile memory such as flash memory can be used to store sensitive and or personal information associated with a user such as bank account information personal identification numbers photographs legal documents etc. Other entities can attempt to gain access to such data stored in the memory which can result in hardship e.g. financial personal professional etc. to the user. It is desirable to maintain data in a memory device in a secure manner. It is also desirable to enable the user to learn of attempts to gain unauthorized access to the memory device by unauthorized entities.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject innovation relates to systems and or methods that can facilitate securing data in a memory device from attempts to tamper with the memory device and or data stored therein or associated therewith. A counter tamper component can monitor events associated with the casing containing a memory device and or accessing information associated with the memory device and can react e.g. respond resist and or provide evidence to attempts to tamper e.g. tamper events tamper attacks with the casing and or the data stored in the memory. The counter tamper component can evaluate information associated with the casing and or data stored in the memory and can determine whether a tamper event is or has occurred. Based on the type of tamper event the counter tamper component can provide evidence of the tamper event to enable the user e.g. owner of the memory device to learn of the tamper event provide a response to the tamper event and or can resist the tamper event.

In accordance with one aspect a memory device can be contained in a memory casing e.g. memory module which can be included within an electronic device casing where the electronic device can be a cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA or smart card for example. The counter tamper component can be included within the memory module and can be associated with the module and the memory device. The counter tamper component can provide evidence that an entity has tampered with the memory device by attempting to access data securely stored in the memory device. In one aspect the counter tamper component can receive information that a predetermined number of unsuccessful attempts have been made to access data secured in the memory and can determine that a tampering event has occurred as a result. For example the counter tamper component can receive information that an entity has attempted to authenticate a predetermined number of times e.g. three times in order to access the memory device and all attempts were unsuccessful due to improper authentication information being provided by the entity. The counter tamper component can provide evidence that such tamper event has occurred for example by changing the color of the memory module that contains the memory device and or illuminating a light emitting diode s LED s that can be on or associated with the module. As the memory module can be contained within the electronic device to enable the evidence of tampering to be perceived by the user the electronic device can be constructed so that there can be a window or other transparent component that can be positioned on the casing of the electronic device so that the user can see the memory module casing within the electronic device in order to observe the evidence of tampering e.g. change of color state of the memory module . In one aspect the casing of the memory module can be designed to be aesthetically desirable to users.

In another aspect where an entity attempts to physically access the memory module or memory device within such as by attempting to open the memory casing the casing and or the memory device contained therein can be formed of a material such that the casing and or memory device can fracture and or break into multiple pieces such that the memory device can be rendered unusable or virtually unusable and the data therein can be rendered inaccessible or virtually inaccessible.

In still another aspect the counter tamper component can provide a response to a tamper event. During an attempt to open the memory casing disruption of the casing can cause an associated switch to be thrown resulting in a change to the circuit e.g. opening of circuit closing of circuit which can be detected by the counter tamper component. The counter tamper component can respond to the attack by erasing of all or a subset of partitions of the memory device and data stored within such partitions. In another aspect the counter tamper component can respond to an attack by initiating catastrophic or graceful failure of one or more components of the memory device. Counter tamper responses can be performed with the use of ancillary circuitry and a power source that can be contained within the memory casing.

In another aspect the memory device can be incorporated in to a mesh encompassing the memory module and one or more paths on the printed circuit board PCB connecting one or more pins on the memory module. An electronic signal can be passed across the mesh via the pins of the memory module. During an attempt to remove and or desolder the memory module from the PCB the disruption and or disconnection of the signal can be detected by the counter tamper component and the counter tamper component can generate a desired response e.g. erasing data causing catastrophic failure of components to the attack accordingly.

In yet another aspect the counter tamper component can provide resistance to a tamper event. Attacks can be conducted in order to obtain information associated with electromagnetic and or radio frequency that can be output from the memory device in order determine information such as cryptographic information e.g. exponent cryptographic protocol associated with the memory device in order to gain access to the memory and or the content stored therein. The counter tamper component can include a shielding that can be employed in the memory casing to facilitate resisting such attacks as the shielding can reduce or eliminate the emanation of electromagnetic radiation and or radio frequency information from the memory device and can thereby reduce the risk of attacks based on such electromagnetic radiation and or radio frequency information.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation may be employed and the disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The disclosed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the disclosed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

Flash memory devices are finding use in many applications where advantage can be taken of the relatively small size high memory density and portability as well as the capability of retaining data stored therein without power. Flash memory devices can be used to store data that the user desires to be secure and or private such that others cannot access data. A flash memory device can often be used in an electronic device e.g. cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. where personal data and or other sensitive data can be stored in the flash memory device. Conventionally the flash memory device is situated within the electronic device such that the memory device is not visible to the user of the electronic device or others. Attackers and other undesired persons can attempt to gain unauthorized access e.g. tamper with the memory device to obtain or learn the secure private data. It is desirable to protect the memory device from attacks to the memory device itself as well as unauthorized attempts to access data stored therein and or information associated therewith. It is also desirable to provide a user e.g. owner of the memory device with information regarding attempts by others to attack or access the memory device.

Systems and or methods that can facilitate detecting attempts to tamper with a memory device and protecting a memory device from such tampering attempts are presented. The memory device e.g. flash memory device can include a counter tamper component that can facilitate detecting tamper events e.g. tamper attacks generating and or providing evidence of tamper events providing resistance to tamper events and or generating responses to attempts to tamper with the memory device and or the data stored therein.

Turning to the figures illustrates a system that can secure data from tampering in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. System can include a memory module that can be comprised of a memory that can store data in individual memory locations within the memory .

In accordance with an aspect the memory can be a non volatile memory such as flash memory e.g. single bit flash memory multi bit flash memory read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and or nonvolatile random access memory NVRAM e.g. Ferroelectric random access memory FeRAM and the like. Further the flash memory can be comprised of NOR flash memory and or NAND flash memory.

Memory module can further include a counter tamper component that can be associated with the memory and memory module and can facilitate securing data stored in the memory component from unauthorized access by undesired entities e.g. attackers . The counter tamper component can facilitate resisting and or responding to attempts to tamper with the memory module and or memory component and or can provide evidence of attempts to tamper with the memory module and or memory component .

In accordance with one aspect the counter tamper component can be incorporated as part of the casing of the memory module and can provide evidence of tampering where for example the casing of the memory module can fracture if opened such that re closure of the casing of the memory module can be prevented and or the fracture can be perceived if the casing of the memory module is re closed. In another aspect the counter tamper component can be incorporated as part of the casing of the memory module as the casing of the memory module can be formed from a material that can change state e.g. change color state in reaction to a tamper event e.g. tamper attack .

For example if an entity attempts to authenticate in order to gain access to the data in the memory component but provides improper authentication information and is denied such access the casing of the memory module can change its color state for example from a first color s e.g. black to a different color s e.g. orange which can indicate to the user e.g. owner of the memory module and the electronic device not shown in which the memory module resides that an entity has tampered with the memory module and or memory . The casing of the electronic device can be designed so that the memory module can be visible to the user so that the user can perceive a change in the color state of the memory module as more fully described herein for example with regard to and infra.

In accordance with still another aspect the counter tamper component can resist a tamper attack such as a side channel or other attack where an attacker attempts to obtain information associated with power consumption electromagnetic radiation and or radio frequency emissions associated with data manipulation e.g. cryptographic protocol in order to gain unauthorized access to the data stored in the memory and or the cryptographic protocol e.g. exponent . The counter tamper component can include a material that can be employed in the memory module and or the non volatile memory and can resist such attacks as the material can prevent minimize and or reduce and or can render indistinguishable the amount of power consumption electromagnetic radiation and or radio frequency emissions emitted by the memory module and or memory component .

In yet another aspect the counter tamper component can employ various types of check circuits e.g. mesh circuit throw switch circuit that can be used to detect whether an attempt is being made to remove the memory component from the memory module . The counter tamper component can provide a response to such an attack e.g. tamper event by for example erasing all or a portion of data stored within the memory component and or initiating a failure e.g. fusing circuit components together of one or more components e.g. memory array not shown such that the components can be rendered inoperable and or inaccessible.

Referring to depicted is a system that can facilitate securing information stored in a memory in accordance with one embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. System can include a memory module which can include a memory e.g. a non volatile memory that can store data in respective memory locations within the memory . The memory module can further include a counter tamper component that can facilitate detecting tamper event s and providing a desired reaction to such tamper event s in order to facilitate securing the data stored in the memory . The memory module memory and counter tamper component can each include their respective functionality as more fully described herein for example with regard to system and or system as described infra.

The memory module and components e.g. memory contained therein can be associated with a host processor that can be can be an applications processor that can manage communications and run applications. In one aspect the host processor can be a processor that can be utilized by a computer a mobile handset personal digital assistant PDA or virtually any other electronic device. The host processor can generate commands such as read commands write commands and or erase commands that can be executed respectively to read data from write data to and or erase data from the memory . Data being written to or read from memory can be communicated or transmitted between the memory and the host processor and or other components not shown via a bus e.g. system bus which can be a multi bit bus.

The memory module can further include a cryptographic component that can facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data to facilitate securing data being written to stored in and or read from the memory . In accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter cryptographic component can provide symmetric cryptographic tools and accelerators e.g. Twofish Blowfish AES TDES IDEA CAST5 RC4 etc. to ensure that a specified partition not shown in the memory or portions thereof can only be accessed by those entities authorized and or authenticated to do so. Cryptographic component can also provide asymmetric cryptographic accelerators and tools e.g. RSA Digital Signature Standard DSS and the like to ensure that a specified partition in the memory or portions thereof only can be accessed by those entities that are authorized and certified to do so. Additionally cryptographic component can provide accelerators and tools e.g. Secure Hash Algorithm SHA and its variants such as for example SHA 0 SHA 1 SHA 224 SHA 256 SHA 384 and SHA 512 to ensure that access to the specified partition in the memory is confined to those entities authorized to gain access.

The memory module can also include an authentication component that can solicit authentication data from an entity and upon the authentication data so solicited can be employed individually and or in conjunction with information acquired and ascertained as a result of biometric modalities employed to facilitate control access to the memory . The authentication data can be in the form of a password e.g. a sequence of humanly cognizable characters a pass phrase e.g. a sequence of alphanumeric characters that can be similar to a typical password but is conventionally of greater length and contains non humanly cognizable characters in addition to humanly cognizable characters a pass code e.g. Personal Identification Number PIN and the like for example. Additionally and or alternatively public key infrastructure PKI data can also be employed by authentication component . PKI arrangements can provide for trusted third parties to vet and affirm entity identity through the use of public keys that typically can be certificates issued by the trusted third parties. Such arrangements can enable entities to be authenticated to each other and to use information in certificates e.g. public keys and private keys session keys Traffic Encryption Keys TEKs cryptographic system specific keys and or other keys to encrypt and decrypt messages communicated between entities.

The authentication component can implement one or more machine implemented techniques to identify an entity by its unique physical and behavioral characteristics and attributes. Biometric modalities that can be employed can include for example face recognition wherein measurements of key points on an entity s face can provide a unique pattern that can be associated with the entity iris recognition that measures from the outer edge towards the pupil the patterns associated with the colored part of the eye the iris to detect unique features associated with an entity s iris finger print or hand print identification that scans the corrugated ridges of skin that are non continuous and form a pattern that can provide distinguishing features to identify an entity and or voice recognition where the voice of the entity can be analyzed based in part on speech pattern tone etc. that can distinguish the entity from another entity.

The authentication component can be associated with an authentication interface component that can be incorporated in to the memory module and can facilitate authenticating a user s or others. In one aspect the authentication interface component can be associated with a keypad not shown and can receive authentication information such as password PIN numbers etc. that the authentication component can evaluate to determine whether to grant access to the memory . In another aspect the authentication interface component can be comprised of a scanner or other suitable component that can obtain and or receive biometric information e.g. information associated with fingerprints eye features facial features voice recognition etc. that can be provided by or obtained from the user or other entities. The authentication component can evaluate e.g. compare the biometric information with template information or other information that can be stored in the memory to determine whether the biometric information can be associated with the user or other entity that is authorized and can be granted access to the memory or a portion thereof. If such biometric information matches the template information or other information the user or other entity associated with the biometric information can be granted access to the data or a portion of the data stored within the memory based in part on the level of access rights that can be granted to the user or other entity. For example an authentication interface component can be comprised of a fingerprint sensor not shown that can be incorporated into the surface of the casing of the memory module or the casing of the electronic device not shown in which the memory module resides. The user can place one or more digits upon the fingerprint sensor which can scan the one or more digits to obtain biometric information. The biometric information can be captured and compared with the template information that can be stored in memory . If the biometric information matches such that it meets a predetermined threshold level of accuracy the user can be granted predetermined access rights associated with that user to access a subset of data in the memory .

In accordance with one embodiment of the disclosed subject matter the memory module including the memory at least a portion of the counter tamper component the cryptographic component the authentication component and or at least a portion of the authentication interface component can be situated or implemented on a single integrated circuit chip e.g. die which can provide improved and or increased data security of data programmed to stored in and or read from the memory . In accordance with another embodiment the memory module including the memory at least a portion of the counter tamper component the cryptographic component the authentication component and or at least a portion of the authentication interface component can be implemented on an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip.

Referring to depicted is a system that can facilitate securing data in accordance with another embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. System can include the components e.g. memory counter tamper component etc. described with regard to system where each component can include their respective functionality as more fully described herein for example with regard to system . System can include the host processor where the host processor can be contained within the memory module . By incorporating the host processor within the memory module security of the data being communicated between the host processor and the memory and or other components within the memory module can be improved and or facilitated.

In accordance with an aspect the counter tamper component can include an aggregation component that can aggregate and or organize data including data associated with accessing the memory and or memory module which can be received or obtained by the counter tamper component in order to facilitate determining whether a tamper attack is or has occurred determining a reaction that can be generated regarding a tamper attack generating and or providing evidence of a tamper attack generating and or providing a response to a tamper attack resisting a tamper attack etc. The aggregation component can filter select and or organize the data received by the counter tamper component . For instance the aggregation component can identify portions of data that can be associated with a tamper attack and or an attempt to access the memory and or memory module . It is to be appreciated that the aggregation component can be incorporated into the counter tamper component as depicted a stand alone component and or most any suitable combination thereof.

In accordance with another aspect the counter tamper component can include an evaluation component that can monitor collect and or analyze received data and can facilitate determining for example whether an attempt is being made to access the memory and or the memory module whether a tamper attack is or has occurred a type of tamper attack that is or has occurred a reaction that can be generated regarding a tamper attack etc.

For example the aggregation component can receive information regarding attempts to enter authentication credentials to access the memory . The aggregation component can count the number of attempts to enter such credentials. Each attempt to enter the authentication credentials can be logged by the aggregation component and evaluated by the evaluation component . The aggregation component can communicate the count information to the evaluation component . The evaluation component can evaluate information associated with the authentication attempts and after a predetermined number of unsuccessful attempts have been made e.g. three consecutive unsuccessful attempts the evaluation component can determine that the such invalid attempts constitute a tamper attack in relation to the memory and the counter tamper component can react to the tamper attack in a desired manner e.g. casing of module can change color state for example as more fully described herein.

In yet another aspect the counter tamper component can employ a tamper evident component that can facilitate providing evidence of a tamper attack s e.g. tamper event or an attempt to tamper with the memory and or the memory module . In an aspect the counter tamper component in part can be incorporated as part of the casing of the memory module . The casing of the memory module can be constructed of material s such as a brittle material e.g. brittle plastic material that can result in the casing being disrupted if opened such that it can be virtually impossible to re close without a perceivable indication e.g. evidence of tampering in the form of physical disruption of the enclosure e.g. casing . For example the casing of the memory module and or the casing of the memory can fracture and or break into multiple pieces that can prevent the casing of the memory module and or the casing of the memory from being returned to their original untampered state. While the memory can thereafter be inaccessible and the data stored therein can be destroyed the data can still be secured from unauthorized access by the attacker. In another aspect the casing of the memory module can be manufactured from a material that can have ductile material characteristics. If an attempt is made to open or access the casing of the memory module e.g. in an attempt to open the casing of the memory module to access the memory contained within such casing can be deformed as a result of the stresses and or strains applied during the opening of or attempt to open the casing of the memory module and such casing can retain the deformation. The deformation can be sufficient to prevent the casing from being returned to its original untampered state and the deformation can be evidence of the tamper attack that can be observable by the user.

In another aspect the tamper evident component can include a cover that can be employed which can be a seal or sticker for example and the cover can be attached to the memory module . During an attempt to peel back and or remove the seal sticker from the memory module the seal or sticker can wrinkle or tear for example which can be evidence of disturbance of the seal sticker that can be discernible by the user.

In still another aspect the casing of memory module can be composed of a material that can alter state e.g. color s based in part on physical thermal and or electronic changes and events placed upon such casing during and resulting from an attempt s to tamper with the casing of the memory module the memory and or other components which comprise the memory module .

For example the counter tamper component can receive information that an entity has attempted to authenticate a predetermined number of times e.g. three times in order to access the memory and all attempts were unsuccessful due to improper authentication information being provided by the entity. The tamper evident component can provide evidence that such tamper event has occurred for example by changing the color state of the casing of the memory module that can contain the memory and or illuminating a light emitting diode s LED s e.g. LED display multi color LED display not shown that can be on or associated with the memory module and displaying such change of color state so that it can be observed by a user. The tamper evident component can facilitate displaying on the casing of the module e.g. the casing itself a display integrated with the casing a first subset of colors one or more colors when the memory module is in an untampered state and can facilitate displaying on the casing of the module a disparate subset of colors one or more colors when the memory module is in a tampered state.

The counter tamper component can facilitate enabling an authorized user e.g. owner of the electronic device can re set the color state associated with the casing of the memory module to a color that can correspond to an untampered state upon presentation of proper authentication credentials that can identify the user as one authorized to re set the color state of the memory module and or access the memory . Having the casing of the module display the evidence of tampering via the tamper evident component for example by having the casing of the module change color s and or a display e.g. LED display contained on or integrated with the casing of the module that can change color s can facilitate improving the security of the module the memory therein and or the data stored in the memory as compared to simply providing evidence of tampering to a display e.g. graphical user interface GUI of the electronic device in which the memory module resides where an attacker can attempt to bypass such security measure by disrupting the communication of the tamper evidence to the electronic device display. Such module casing and or display of the tamper evident component can reduce the risk of an attacker disconnecting or bypassing the tamper evident component as the casing of the module itself is providing the evidence of tampering and or the display that can provide evidence of tampering can be integrated in the casing of the module . Further other counter tamper techniques e.g. mesh circuit switch circuit etc. can be employed along with the change of color state of the module to reduce the risk of tampering by an attacker to further secure the module memory and data stored therein.

As another example during a de soldering attempt to remove the memory module from the electronic device within which it can be contained the counter tamper component can detect the tamper event and the tamper evident component can provide evidence of the tamper attack as the casing of the memory module can react to the thermal disturbance of the desoldering process by a change in color state e.g. the casing of the memory module can change from black to red for example. The change in color state of the casing of the memory module can be visible to the user of the electronic device and can inform the user visually that an attempt to tamper with the memory module has occurred.

As the memory module can be contained within the electronic device not shown to enable the evidence of tampering to be perceived by the user the electronic device can be constructed so that there can be a window or other transparent component that can be positioned on the casing of the electronic device so that the user can see the memory module casing within the electronic device in order to observe the evidence of tampering e.g. change of color state of the memory module as more fully described herein for example with regard to and . In one aspect the casing of the memory module can be designed to be aesthetically desirable to users such as by having a desirable shape a desirable logo thereon a desirable color s and or a surface that can be customizable where for example a user can input his her name or a word or phrase that can be displayed on the surface of the casing of the memory module to personalize the memory module and the electronic device in which the module resides.

In yet another aspect the tamper evident component can employ a speaker not shown and an amplifier not shown and when a tamper attack e.g. entity denied access after authentication has failed a predetermined number of times occurs the tamper evident component can facilitate generating an audio signal that can be amplified by the amplifier and presented as an audio output via the speaker that can be evidence that a tamper attack has or is occurring. In accordance with an aspect to conserve power consumption the audio signal can be provided for a predetermined period of time e.g. one minute and can terminate after such time. For example if a tamper attack occurs the tamper evident component can facilitate changing the color of the casing of the memory module and outputting an audio signal as evidence of the tamper attack. After a predetermined period of time the tamper evident component can cause the audio signal to cease in order to facilitate conserving power but the change in color state can remain so that if the user did not have the opportunity to hear the audio signal the user can still observe the evidence of tampering.

In accordance with another aspect the tamper evident component can employ a sensory component not shown that can vibrate and thereby cause the casing of the memory module and or the casing of the electronic device in which the memory module resides to vibrate when a tamper attack occurs which can be evidence that a tamper attack has or is occurring. In accordance with an aspect to conserve power consumption the vibration can be provided for a predetermined period of time e.g. one minute and can terminate after such time. For example if a tamper attack occurs the tamper evident component can facilitate changing the color of the casing of the memory module and generating vibrations as evidence of the tamper attack. After a predetermined period of time the tamper evident component can cause the vibrations to cease in order to facilitate conserving power but the change in color state can remain so that if the user did not have the opportunity to perceive the vibrations the user can still observe the evidence of tampering.

The counter tamper component can include a power supply e.g. lithium battery that can provide suitable power to facilitate a change s in color state of the casing of the memory module generation and amplification of audio signals and or generation of vibrations associated with the sensory component. The power supply can be re chargeable and can be charged via a charge supplied to the electronic device in which the memory module can reside.

In accordance with another aspect of the disclosed subject matter the counter tamper component can include a tamper resist component that can facilitate resisting attempts by entities to tamper with e.g. gain unauthorized access to data the memory . Attackers can attempt to obtain side channel information such as information associated with power consumption electromagnetic radiation and or radio frequency characteristics related to the electronic device for example with regard to the cryptographic component that can be included in the memory module .

The cryptographic component can employ a cryptographic protocol s to facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data being written to or read from the memory . The cryptographic component can perform calculations in accordance with a cryptographic protocol s to facilitate data encryption decryption. Different types of calculations e.g. multiplication squaring etc. can have distinct and respective power consumption levels electromagnetic radiation levels and or radio frequency characteristics that an attacker can obtain and analyze in order to learn information e.g. cryptographic algorithm exponent that the attacker can utilize to gain access to and or decrypt data stored in the memory .

To further illustrate operation of the memory module can include processing and storing of information within the memory itself and associated components as well as interactions with processors e.g. host processor that can be external to the memory module . For example during operation radio waves can be generated as an electrical current fluctuates within the memory module and or the electronic device in which the memory module is contained. The radio waves and or other emanations can be intercepted and analyzed by an attacker to determine intelligence bearing information that may be contained and disclosed relating to the operation of the memory module and or the electronic device.

In accordance with an aspect the tamper resist component can be comprised of a shielding material s that can eliminate minimize and or reduce the level of power consumption the level of electromagnetic radiation and or the level of output radio frequency information and or can alter information associated with the power consumption electromagnetic radiation and or radio frequency to facilitate resisting tamper attacks by attackers. In one aspect the tamper resistant shielding s can be employed within the memory module and or the electronic device in which the module resides. In another aspect the tamper resistant shielding s can be comprised of a metal or other suitable material that can facilitate reducing output and or altering information associated with power consumption electromagnetic radiation and or radio frequency.

In another aspect the tamper resist component can also work in conjunction with the authentication component to facilitate resisting tamper attacks as authentication protocols can be employed to resist or inhibit unauthorized attempts to access the memory and or data stored therein. For example the tamper resist component can facilitate resisting a tamper attack where an entity attempts to provide authentication credentials to the memory module in order to access the memory . The tamper resist component in conjunction with the evaluation component can analyze the authentication credentials presented and can determine whether the credentials are proper. If the credentials are not proper the tamper resist component can facilitate denying the entity access to the memory and the data stored therein.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the disclosed subject matter the counter tamper component can include a tamper response component that can facilitate determining whether a tamper attack has occurred in relation to the memory module memory electronic device etc. and can provide a desired response to a tamper attack s . In one aspect if the tamper response component determines that a tamper attack has occurred for which a tamper response is desired the tamper response component can initiate a desired tamper response.

In one aspect the tamper response component can employ a mesh circuit that can facilitate detection of a tamper attack in relation to the memory module and or memory . The memory module can include a plurality of pins not shown that can be utilized to electrically connect the memory module to a PCB not shown as the pins can be soldered to the PCB or can be inserted into a socket not shown that can be soldered to the PCB. The mesh circuit can be constructed between one or more pins of the memory module and the conductive pathways incorporated in to the PCB on which the memory module can reside. For example the mesh circuit can run from a pin of the memory module to a corresponding conductive path of the PCB to another conductive path of the PCB and into another pin corresponding to the other conductive path as desired to form the mesh. In one aspect the mesh can be a wire mesh located sandwiched between the memory module and the PCB connecting one or more pins on the memory module .

Once the mesh circuit is constructed an electronic check signal e.g. voltage of predetermined voltage level and or strength can be applied across the mesh circuit. The power to generate the electronic check signal can be provided by the power supply for example. The electronic check signal can be monitored and analyzed by the evaluation component and or the tamper response component for example to evaluate signal continuity and or signal strength. If the signal is broken and or a change e.g. variance in signal strength is detected e.g. a voltage drop the tamper response component can initiate a tamper response. In one aspect the tamper response component can initiate an erasure e.g. zeroization of all or a subset of the data stored in the memory . For example if the check signal associated with the mesh circuit changes such that it is determined that a tamper attack occurred the tamper response component can erase data in secure partitions of the memory so that such data e.g. sensitive data personal data cannot be accessed by the unauthorized entity e.g. attacker .

In accordance with another aspect in response to such tamper attack the tamper response component can initiate catastrophic failure and or graceful failure of one or more components e.g. memory in or associated with the memory module . Catastrophic failure of a component can be destruction e.g. short circuiting melding of circuitry such that the component cannot be replaced or made operable. Graceful failure of a component e.g. memory can be such that the component and or memory module can be rendered inoperable but the failed component s can be made operable and or replaced allowing the memory module to again become fully functional.

In still another aspect of the disclosed subject matter the tamper response component can employ a throw switch that can be placed in the depressed position between portions of the casing of the memory module . During an attempt to open or remove the casing of memory module or a portion thereof the throw switch can be activated to change its state by the removal of pressure on the switch actuator as the case is opened or removed. The tamper response component and or evaluation component that can be associated therewith can determine that a tamper attack has occurred and can provide a response to the tamper event. In one aspect the response to such tamper attack can be an erasure e.g. zeroization of all or a portion of the data stored in the memory . In another aspect the response to the tamper attack can be a catastrophic failure and or graceful failure of one or more components e.g. memory associated with the memory module .

In accordance with various other aspects of the disclosed subject matter the counter tamper component can detect and react to other forms of tampering such as for example freezing of the memory module application of out of specification voltages to the memory module power surges supplied to the memory module fault attacks associated with the data and or variance of clock signals associated with the memory and the like. Upon detecting such attacks the counter tamper component can initiate a desired reaction e.g. change of color state of the memory module to the tamper attack based in part on the type of tamper attack.

Referring to depicted is a system that can facilitate securing data from tampering can in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. System can be or can include an electronic device e.g. cellular phone PDA etc. that can be comprised of various components including for example a memory module memory not shown counter tamper component host processor not shown cryptographic component not shown and or authentication component not shown . It is to be appreciated that the memory module memory counter tamper component host processor cryptographic component and or authentication component each can include the same or similar respective functionality as more fully described herein for example with regard to system system and or system . The electronic device of system can be comprised of an electronic device casing that can contain components and circuitry associated with electronic device. Located on the face of the electronic device casing can be a display component e.g. GUI that can be used to display information to the user and or others. In one aspect the display component can be a color GUI of a desired size and shape that can display text and or images e.g. photographs video icons etc. to a user. In another aspect the display component can also be an interface that can receive information e.g. touch screen entered by a user that can be input to the electronic device and processed e.g. to read data from memory write data to memory engage a function associated with the electronic device etc. based in part of the information provided to facilitate navigating information stored in the memory and or functions associated with the electronic device.

System can also include an input component e.g. keypad that can be utilized to facilitate navigating information stored in the memory and or functions of the electronic device and entering information such as names telephone numbers and or text messages for example. A user can enter information via the input component to provide data that can be stored in the memory and or retrieve data from the memory and or to engage a function associated with the electronic device.

The electronic device can further include a window component that can be transparent or substantially transparent so that it can enable internal components e.g. the memory module of the electronic device to be perceived by the user and or others. In one aspect the window component can facilitate detection of tamper attacks and or providing evidence of tamper attacks to the memory module and or the memory that can be contained therein. In accordance with an aspect the window component can be positioned on the same side of the casing of the electronic device as the display component between the display component and the input component . In another aspect the respective positions of the window component and the memory module can be such that the memory module which can be contained within the electronic device can be perceived by the user and or others through the window component so that the user and or others can observe a state e.g. color state and or condition e.g. module is deformed or not of the memory module . In still another aspect the window component can be a piece of clear plastic or other transparent material through which the memory module can be perceived by the user and or others viewing the side of the electronic device that contains the display component .

For example if an entity attempts to access data e.g. secure data from the memory by making attempts to enter authentication credential information in order to be granted access to such data but provides incorrect authentication credential information the counter tamper component can determine that a tamper attack has occurred. In one aspect the counter tamper component can indicate that the tamper attack occurred by changing the color state of the memory module for example by changing the color of the casing of the memory module from a first color s e.g. black to a disparate color s e.g. red and or by changing the color s of a display e.g. LED display which can be integrated with the casing of module from a first color s to a disparate color s . The user e.g. owner of the electronic device can view the memory module through the window component and can perceive the color state change of the memory module which can indicate to the user that a tamper attack occurred in relation to the memory module and or memory .

With regard to illustrated is a cross section view of a system that can facilitate securing data from tampering in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. The cross section view of system can be or can include the electronic device that can be comprised of the various components e.g. memory not shown counter tamper component etc. as described with regard to . The electronic device can be comprised of an electronic device casing that can contain the various components associated with the electronic device. In one aspect the electronic device can include the memory module that can include the memory device s not shown that can store data in memory locations therein. The memory module can be positioned within the electronic device and can be associated with other components e.g. host processor not shown to facilitate storing data in and retrieving data from the memory . The window component can be positioned on a surface of the electronic device such that the memory module located inside the electronic device can be perceived by the user and others who can look through the window component to observe the state e.g. color state and or condition e.g. formation such as deformed or not of the memory module . While not shown the electronic device casing also can include the display component and or input component .

In accordance with one aspect of the disclosed subject matter the casing e.g. shroud of the memory module can be designed to be aesthetically pleasing and can add decorative quality to the electronic device in which the memory module is encased. If the memory module has been tampered with a tamper evident response is initiated and visible through the window component for example a change in color state of the shroud.

Referring to a system that can facilitate storing data in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter is illustrated. System can include a memory that can store data including sensitive and or personal information for which data security is desired. In accordance with one aspect the memory can be a flash memory device e.g. single bit flash memory multi bit flash memory . The memory can generally include a semiconductor substrate in which one or more high density core regions and one or more lower density peripheral regions can be formed. The high density core regions can typically include one or more M by N arrays not shown of individually addressable substantially identical multi bit memory cells not shown . The lower density peripheral regions on the other hand can typically include input output I O circuitry and programming circuitry for selectively addressing the individual memory cells. The programming circuitry can be represented in part by and can include an x decoder s and y decoder s that cooperate with the I O circuitry for selectively connecting a source gate and or drain of selected addressed memory cells to predetermined voltages or impedances to effect designated operations e.g. programming reading and erasing and deriving necessary voltages to effect such operations on the respective memory cells. The counter tamper component can be employed to facilitate protecting data written to stored in and or read from the higher density core regions .

Turning to illustrated is a system that can employ intelligence to facilitate securing data from tampering in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. System can include a memory module memory counter tamper component cryptographic component and or authentication component . The memory module memory counter tamper component cryptographic component and authentication component each can be substantially similar to respective components and can include such respective functionality as described herein for example with regard to system system system system and or system .

The system can further include an intelligent component that can be associated with the counter tamper component to facilitate analyzing data and can render an inference s and or a determination s regarding for example whether a tamper event e.g. attack has occurred a type of tamper event a type of reaction e.g. provide evidence of tampering provide response to tampering resist tampering that can be employed or initiated with regard to a tamper event whether authentication credentials are valid etc.

For example the counter tamper component can detect a variance in the strength of a signal associated with a mesh circuit connected with the memory module and the PCB on which the memory module is electrically connected. Information regarding the detected variance can be provided to the intelligent component and based in part on current and or historical evidence the intelligent component can infer whether the detected variance of the signal is associated with a tamper attack.

It is to be understood that the intelligent component can provide for reasoning about or infer states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data e.g. historical data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed subject matter.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

System also can include a presentation component that can present data associated with the host processor . It is to be appreciated that the presentation component can be incorporated into the host processor and or a stand alone unit. The presentation component can provide various types of user interfaces to facilitate interaction between a user and any component coupled to the host processor .

The presentation component can provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs command line interfaces and the like. For example a GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present the results of such. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. For example the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled to and or incorporated into the processor .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a roller ball a keypad a keyboard a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can than provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI and or an application programming interface API . In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and enhanced graphics adaptor EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

Referring to illustrated is a system that can employ memory partitioning to facilitate securing data in a memory in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. System can be utilized to facilitate securing data stored in a memory such as memory which can be a non volatile memory.

For purposes of illustration the memory can be divided into three sets of partitions e.g. Host Platform Partition Host Application Partition and a High Security Partition as depicted. The Host Platform Partition can comprise an early boot and emergency code partition an operating system partition and or an operator and OEM trusted code and data partition . Further Host Application Partition can include a third party trusted code partition secure user data encrypted partition and plain user data and suspicious code partition . Additionally the High Security Partition can include a secure device keys partition and a secure certificates and key storage partition .

As depicted the partitioning system can provide a multi layered approach to ensure memory tamper protection and effective virus recovery. For example Host Platform Partition and partitions e.g. partitions contained therein can be viewable and accessible by all entities but only be modifiable by certain entities such as for example an entity ies related to the manufacturer of the electronic device in which the memory and or memory module reside. Thus partition for instance can allow all entities to read and view the contents contained in partition but can only allow entities that supply appropriate credentials e.g. PKI authentication information to write or modify the contents of partition . Partitions and on the other hand can allow select entities to read and write content of these partitions and more particularly can only permit entities to read the contents of partitions and or once for example an afterboot state has been established and additionally can only allow entities that further supply appropriate credentials e.g. PKI authentication information to write or modify partitions and or .

Further Host Application Partition and its illustrative sub partitions e.g. can only allow selective access to these particular partitions. For example partition third party trusted code can allow entities to read the contents of partition once an after boot state has been ascertained and can allow entities that proffer appropriate authentication credentials write access partition secure user data e.g. encrypted can allow read and write access to those entities that supply appropriate authentication credentials associated therewith and partition plain user data and suspicious code can allow read and write access without necessity of entities providing authentication credentials.

Additionally the High Security Partition and associated partitions e.g. can only allow read access to a very select and restrictive group of entities such as the memory itself indicating that these are the most secure partitions and that these partitions cannot be accessed e.g. read without the counter tamper component or other component not shown that can create the respective partitions . However while the High Security Partition and associated partitions can confine read access to such partitions to a select and restrictive group data can be written to these partitions if proper authentication credentials are provided by an entity.

It is to be appreciated that system is but one example of a partitioning system that can facilitate securing data in a memory e.g. and the subject innovation is not so limited. The subject innovation contemplates that the memory can remain as one partition or can be sectioned into virtually any desirable number of partitions that can each be associated with a respective level of security to be provided to data stored therein and respective protocols regarding access to data stored in such partitions.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

Referring to illustrated is a methodology that can facilitate securing data in a memory from tampering in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. At an indication that a tamper event s e.g. tamper attack attempt to tamper has occurred can be detected and or received. In one aspect a counter tamper component e.g. can detect and or receive information that can indicate that a tamper event has occurred. The indication can include for example invalid attempt s to access the memory e.g. by providing authentication information disruption of a check circuit e.g. mesh circuit a switch being thrown during an attempt to remove the memory module e.g. from a PCB path breakage between the memory module and associated circuitry sensing device etc.

At a counter tamper reaction can be generated based in part on the type of tamper event detected or encountered. In accordance with an aspect the counter temper reaction can be providing evidence of a tamper attack. For example if a tamper attack relates to invalid authentication information being provided to an authentication component e.g. and or tamper evident component e.g. the tamper evident component can facilitate changing the color state of the memory module to provide evidence to the user e.g. owner and or other entities that a tamper attack has occurred. In another aspect the memory module can resist a tamper attack. For example if an attacker attempts to break open the memory module the memory module and or memory contained therein can be constructed of a material that can fracture into multiple pieces and can render the memory inoperable and data stored therein inaccessible. In accordance with yet another aspect the counter tamper component can provide a response to a tamper attack. For instance a mesh circuit can be placed between the memory module and PCB a check signal e.g. voltage can be supplied to the mesh circuit. If an attacker attempts to remove the memory module from the PCB the check signal can be disrupted or disconnected and the counter tamper component can detect such disruption disconnection and determine that a tamper attack has occurred. The tamper response component e.g. can provide a response to such attack by erasing the data or a portion thereof stored in the memory and or can facilitate causing memory components and or circuitry to meld together such that the memory can be inoperable and or inaccessible. At this point methodology can end.

At the information associated with the indication of a tampering event can be evaluated. In one aspect an evaluation component e.g. that can be part of the counter tamper component e.g. can analyze and evaluate such information and can determine whether a tamper event has occurred and or can determine the type of tamper event e.g. invalid attempt s to authenticate with regard to the memory disruption of a check voltage associated with a mesh circuit thrown switch related to casing of the memory module etc. that has occurred.

At evidence of tampering can be provided based in part on the type of tamper event. In accordance with one aspect a tamper evident component can provide evidence of a tamper event s based in part on the type of tamper event encountered by the memory module and or memory. In one aspect if a predetermined number of invalid attempts are made to authenticate to access the memory the tamper evident component can determine that a tamper event has occurred and can provide evidence of such tampering for example by facilitating a change in the color state of the casing of the memory module where such color change can be perceived by the user e.g. owner and or other entities as evidence of tampering with the memory module. In another aspect if the memory module is constructed with a seal or sticker contained thereon and the tamper event relates to opening or attempting to open the memory module the seal or sticker can tear and or become deformed such that the tear or deformation can be perceived by the user e.g. owner and or other entities as evidence of tampering with the memory module.

In yet another aspect if the memory module is constructed of a material that is plastic and or brittle and the tamper event relates to opening or attempting to open the memory module the casing of the memory module can fracture or break into multiple pieces such that the fracture or breaks e.g. broken pieces can be perceived by the user and or other entities as evidence of tampering with the memory module. In accordance with another aspect if the memory module is constructed of a ductile material and the tamper event relates to opening or attempting to open the memory module the ductile material can become deformed such that the deformation cannot be reversed and can be perceived by the user e.g. owner and or other entities as evidence of tampering with the memory module. At this point methodology can end.

Turning to depicted is a methodology that can provide evidence of tamper attacks to facilitate securing data associated with a memory from tampering in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. At authentication credential information can be received. For example an authentication component e.g. and or a counter tamper component e.g. can receive authentication credential information. Such information can be in the form of a password pass phrase PIN biometric information or other information that can be utilized to determine whether the entity providing such information can be granted access to data in the memory and or the level of access rights that can be granted to the entity. In one aspect the authentication credential information can be provided for example via an authentication interface component e.g. .

At a determination can be made as to whether the authentication credential information is valid. If the authentication credential information is determined to be valid at access can be granted to the entity based in part of the authentication credential information. In one aspect the level of access rights granted to the entity can be based on the entity the authentication credentials provided and or other criteria associated with the memory and or the data stored therein.

If at it is determined that the authentication credential information is not valid at a determination can be made regarding whether a predetermined maximum number of attempts to authenticate has been reached. For example an aggregation component e.g. and or evaluation component e.g. can track the number of attempts e.g. number of consecutive attempts to authenticate in order to access the memory. If a predetermined number of invalid authentication attempts has been reached at it can be determined that a tamper event has occurred. For example the evaluation component can determine that a tamper event has occurred if the maximum number of attempts to authenticate to access the memory has been reached without success.

At evidence associated with the tamper event can be provided where the evidence provided and or reaction to the tamper event can be based in part on the type of tamper event s that occurred. In one aspect the tamper evident component e.g. can facilitate changing the color state of the memory module as a reaction to a tamper event related to invalid authentication in order to provide evidence of tampering with regard to the memory. As a memory typically can be contained within an electronic device e.g. cellular phone PDA etc. the electronic device can include a window component that can be transparent or substantially transparent and can positioned in relation to the memory module and memory contained therein so that a user and or other entities can visually perceive the change of color state to the memory module that can be evidence of a tampering event. In accordance with another aspect the tamper evident component can provide an audio signal and or other sensory signal e.g. vibrations that can provide evidence of tampering and such audio signal and or other sensory signal can continue until suspended as a result of proper authentication information being presented that can reset the memory module and or can continue for a predetermined period of time where the audio or sensory signal can cease to facilitate conserving power. The color change of the memory module can remain until reset to the original untampered state as a result of proper authentication credentials being presented to the authentication component.

Turning back to reference numeral if it is determined that the maximum number of authentication attempts has not been reached at the count relating to the number of authentication attempts e.g. consecutive authentication attempts can be incremented by one. For example a counter associated with the tamper evident component can count and track the number of authentication attempts and can be incremented by one. At a prompt to provide authentication credentials can be provided for example to an entity. In one aspect the prompt can be provided to a display component e.g. associated with the memory module and or electronic device that can be associated therewith. At this point methodology can return to reference numeral where authentication credential information can be received and methodology can proceed from that point for example until proper authentication information has be received and or a predetermined maximum number of unsuccessful attempts to authenticate has been reached. At this point methodology can end.

Referring to illustrated is a methodology that can resist tamper attacks to facilitate securing data associated with a memory from tampering in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. At information that can indicate that a tamper event e.g. tamper attack attempt to tamper has occurred can be received. In one aspect a counter tamper component e.g. can receive information that a tamper event has occurred in relation to a memory module e.g. or memory e.g. associated therewith. In one aspect the memory module can be encased in a casing that can be composed of a material that can resist tampering. For example the material can be a plastic and or brittle material that can resist opening and can break and or fracture if the casing of the memory module is opened.

At an evaluation can be made regarding whether a tamper event has occurred and if so the type of tamper event that has occurred for example to determine whether the tamper event can be countered via a resistance to tampering. At a resistance to the tampering event can be provided where for example the tamper event is a type for which a resistance to tampering can be desirable. In one aspect in reaction to tampering such as where an entity attempts to open the memory module and or memory contained therein the memory module and or memory can fracture into multiple pieces such that the memory can be rendered inoperable and or the data stored therein can be rendered inaccessible. At this point methodology can end.

While such fracturing of the memory casing due to an attempt to open the casing of the memory module and or memory casing can result in the data stored in the memory being inaccessible to a user e.g. owner who can be authorized to access such information it can be determined that the data stored in the memory can be of such a sensitive nature that the benefit of rendering the data stored in the memory inaccessible to potential attackers can outweigh the loss of access to the data for an authorized user.

In one aspect the counter tamper component can employ a mesh circuit that can be situated between and or can be connected to a memory module e.g. and memory e.g. therein and the PCB to which the memory module and memory can be electrically connected. A check signal e.g. voltage can be provided to the mesh circuit and a disruption e.g. variance in signal level and or strength and or disconnection of the signal can indicate that a tamper event has occurred.

In accordance with another aspect a switch es can be utilized and placed between adjacent portions of the casing of the memory module and or between the memory module and the PCB or a socket that can be placed therebetween. The switch can be in a depressed mode while in an untampered state. If the casing of the memory module is opened and or the memory module is removed from the PCB or socket the switch can be activated such that the switch is no longer depressed and can change a state as a result which can provide an indication that a tamper event has occurred.

At an evaluation can be made regarding whether a tamper event has occurred and if so the type of tamper event that has occurred for example to determine whether the tamper event can be countered by initiating a response to the tampering. At a response to the tampering event can be provided where for example the tamper event is a type for which a response to tampering can be desirable. In one aspect in reaction to the tampering such as where a disruption or disconnection of a check signal associated with a mesh circuit is detected a tamper response component e.g. can provide a response to such tampering by erasing data or a portion thereof stored in the memory as desired so that an unauthorized entity e.g. attacker cannot access or view such data. In another aspect in reaction to tampering such as where a switch employed in the casing of the memory module is thrown to a different state as a result of the memory module being removed from the PCB and or the casing of the memory module being opened or disrupted the tamper response component can provide a response such as by erasing data or a portion thereof stored in the memory as desired so that an unauthorized entity cannot access or view such data.

In still another aspect the response to such tamper attacks associated with the mesh circuit and or switch es can be a catastrophic failure and or graceful failure of one or more components e.g. transistors conductive paths etc. associated with the memory so as to render the memory inoperable and inaccessible to an entity ies . For example one or more components associated with the memory can be melded together to cause the memory to be unusable and the data stored therein inaccessible. At this point methodology can end.

Referring to illustrated is a block diagram of an exemplary non limiting electronic device that can incorporate system system system system system system and or system or a portion s thereof. The electronic device can include but is not limited to a computer a laptop computer network equipment e.g. routers access points a media player and or recorder e.g. audio player and or recorder video player and or recorder a television a smart card a phone a cellular phone a smart phone an electronic organizer a PDA a portable email reader a digital camera an electronic game e.g. video game an electronic device associated with digital rights management a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA card a trusted platform module TPM a Hardware Security Module HSM set top boxes a digital video recorder a gaming console a navigation system e.g. global position satellite GPS system secure memory devices with computational capabilities devices with tamper resistant chips an electronic device associated with an industrial control system an embedded computer in a machine e.g. an airplane a copier a motor vehicle a microwave oven and the like.

Components of the electronic device can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory with nonvolatile memory and a system bus that can couple various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Electronic device can typically include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the electronic device . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM nonvolatile memory e.g. flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by electronic device . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory e.g. memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within electronic device such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that can be immediately accessible to and or presently be operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation system memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The nonvolatile memory can be removable or non removable. For example the nonvolatile memory can be in the form of a removable memory card or a USB flash drive. In accordance with one aspect the nonvolatile memory can include flash memory e.g. single bit flash memory multi bit flash memory ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or NVRAM e.g. FeRAM or a combination thereof for example. Further the flash memory can be comprised of NOR flash memory and or NAND flash memory.

A user can enter commands and information into the electronic device through input devices not shown such as a keypad microphone tablet or touch screen although other input devices can also be utilized. These and other input devices can be connected to the processing unit through input interface component that can be connected to the system bus . Other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB can also be utilized. A graphics subsystem not shown can also be connected to the system bus . A display device not shown can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface component which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a display the electronic device can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers not shown which can be connected through output interface component .

As used herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over the other aspects or designs.

What has been described above includes examples of aspects of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has or having or variations thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

