---

title: Nanogenerator comprising piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructures and Schottky conductive contacts
abstract: A semiconducting device includes a substrate, a piezoelectric wire, a structure, a first electrode and a second electrode. The piezoelectric wire has a first end and an opposite second end and is disposed on the substrate. The structure causes the piezoelectric wire to bend in a predetermined manner between the first end and the second end so that the piezoelectric wire enters a first semiconducting state. The first electrode is coupled to the first end and the second electrode is coupled to the second end so that when the piezoelectric wire is in the first semiconducting state, an electrical characteristic will be exhibited between the first electrode and the second electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08039834&OS=08039834&RS=08039834
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08039834
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070608
---
This application claims the benefit of the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Ser. No. 60 813 101 filed Jun. 13 2006 Ser. No. 60 870 700 filed on Dec. 19 2006 and Ser. No. 60 888 408 filed on Feb. 6 2007 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 608 865 filed Dec. 11 2006 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with support from the U.S. government under grant number NCC3 982 awarded by NASA. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to electronic devices and more specifically to nano scale piezoelectronic devices.

A Schottky barrier is a metal semiconductor junction that rectifies current and thus may be used as a diode. A metal semiconductor junction that does not rectify current is called an Ohmic contact. The rectifying properties of a metal semiconductor junction depend on the metal s work function the band gap of the intrinsic semiconductor and the type and concentration of dopants in the semiconductor.

A piezoelectric material is one that forms an electrical potential difference between two regions of the material when the material is subjected to uneven mechanical forces. For example when certain piezoelectric materials are bent they develop a positive voltage in one region and a negative voltage in another region.

Many micro scale and nano scale machines have been proposed for such uses as in vitro medical devices. However most of these machines are limited by the size of the power source that drives them. Specifically many such designs rely on chemical batteries to supply electrical power to the devices. Therefore they can be no smaller than the battery used and are useful only so long as the battery is able to provide power.

However some of such devices need to be operational for long periods rather than be limited by the lifespan of a battery. Also it may be extremely difficult to change the batteries in some devices such as environmental sensors.

Therefore there is a need for electrical generators that are capable of providing power for long periods and that are driven by environmentally available mechanical energy.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a semiconducting device that includes a substrate a piezoelectric wire a structure a first electrode and a second electrode. The piezoelectric wire has a first end and an opposite second end and is disposed on the substrate. The structure causes the piezoelectric wire to bend in a predetermined manner between the first end and the second end so that the piezoelectric wire enters a first semiconducting state. The first electrode is coupled to the first end and the second electrode is coupled to the second end so that when the piezoelectric wire is in the first semiconducting state an electrical characteristic will be exhibited between the first electrode and the second electrode.

In another aspect the invention is a biogenerator that includes an array of piezoelectric nanowires an electrode and a fluid tight sealant. The array of piezoelectric nanowires extends upwardly form a substrate. The electrode has a corrugated surface disposed parallel to the substrate so that the corrugated surface faces the piezoelectric nanowires. The fluid tight sealant is disposed about a portion of the substrate the array and the electrode so as to prevent fluids from entering the array.

In another aspect the invention is a device for detecting both point location and point pressure of an object placed against the device that includes a substrate. A plurality of nanowires extends upwardly from the substrate. A plurality of pixilated conductive electrodes is disposed in a layer that is spaced apart from the zinc oxide nanowires. A spacer is disposed between the substrate and the plurality of pixilated conductive electrodes.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making a semiconducting device in which a piezoelectric wire is placed on a substrate. A force is applied to the piezoelectric wire which has a first node and a spaced apart second node. The force causes the piezoelectric wire to bend between the first node and the second node to an angle that causes the wire to enter a predetermined first semiconducting state.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of making a force sensor in which a plurality of aligned piezoelectric nanowires is grown to a predetermined height on a single crystal substrate. A polymer layer is spin coated onto the substrate so that the polymer layer surrounds the piezoelectric nanowires but has a thickness less than the predetermined height of the piezoelectric nanowires. A layer of a conductive material is deposited on the polymer layer so as to be in contact with the piezoelectric nanowires. The polymer layer is dissolved and removed thereby leaving a semiconductor piezoelectric member having an outer edge. The outer edge is sealed with an insulating material. The layer of conductive material and the substrate are coupled to an electrical sensor.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

As shown in in one embodiment of a generator a semiconductor piezoelectric structure having a first end and an opposite second end extends from a substrate . The semiconductor piezoelectric structure could include a nanostructure such as a nanowire a nano rod a nano belt or a nano tube. One representative nanostructure could include a zinc oxide structure as a zinc oxide crystal exhibits both the property of being piezoelectric and of acting as a semiconductor.

When a conductive contact e.g. a probe tip of an atomic force microscope applies a force in the direction of the arrow the semiconductor piezoelectric structure bends thereby creating a potential difference is created between a first side which is on the compressed side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure and a second side which is on the decompressed side . When the conductive contact touches the second side which has a positive potential relative to the first side a reverse biased Schottky barrier is formed between the conductive contact and the second side . Because the Schottky barrier is reverse biased no current flows between the conductive contact and the semiconductor piezoelectric structure . However as the conductive contact moves across the semiconductor piezoelectric structure and reaches the first side which has a negative potential relative to the second side the Schottky barrier between the conductive contact and the semiconductor piezoelectric structure becomes forward biased and current is allowed to flow through the Schottky barrier.

Zinc oxide ZnO exhibits both semiconducting and piezoelectric properties. One embodiment of an electric generator employs aligned ZnO nanowire arrays for converting nano scale mechanical energy into electric energy. The operating mechanism of the electric generator relies on the coupling of piezoelectric and semiconducting dual properties of ZnO as well as the rectifying function of the Schottky barrier formed between the metal tip and the nanowire . This approach has the potential of converting biological mechanical energy acoustic or ultrasonic vibration energy and biofluid hydraulic energy into electricity which may result in self powering of wireless nanodevices and nanosystems. These embodiments employ nanowires NWs and nano belts NBs including wurtzite structured materials such as ZnO GaN and ZnS to create self powering devices and systems which could be built at the nanoscale .

One experimental embodiment employed mechanical manipulation of a single ZnO wire belt by a probe coupled to an atomic force microscope AFM . By selecting a long ZnO wire belt that was large enough to be seen under an optical microscope one end of the ZnO wire was affixed on a silicon substrate by silver paste while the other end was left free. The substrate was an intrinsic silicon therefore its conductivity was relatively low. The wire was laid horizontally on the substrate however it was spaced apart from the substrate by a small distance to eliminate friction except at the affixed end . The measurements were performed by an AFM using a Silicon tip coated with Platinum film which had a tetrahedral shape with an apex angle of 70 was 14 m in height and had a spring constant of 1.42 N m. The measurements were done in AFM contact mode under a constant normal force of 5 nN between the tip and the sample surface with a scan area of 70 70 m.

Both the topography feed back signal from the scanner and the corresponding output voltage V images across a load were recorded simultaneously when the AFM tip was scanned across a wire or a belt. The topography image reflected the change in normal force perpendicular to the substrate which showed a bump only when the tip scans over the wire. The output voltage between the conductive tip and the ground was continuously monitored as the tip scanned over the wire or the belt. No external voltage was applied in any stage of the experiment.

The AFM tip was scanned line by line at a speed of 105.57 m s perpendicular to the wire either from above the top end to the lower part of the wire or from the lower part towards the top end. For a wire with a hexagonal cross section three characteristic features were observed. When the tip scanned above the top end of the wire without touching the wire the output voltage signal was nothing but noise. When the tip scanned until it touched the top end of the wire a spark output voltage signal was observed. The output voltage is negative for the load Rfor almost all of the observed cases indicating the tip has a lower potential than the grounded silver paste. When the tip scanned down along the wire it deflected the wire but could not go over it and the output voltage showed no peak but noise.

When subjected to a displacement force one side of the nanowire was stretched and the other side was compressed. The observed results are summarized as follows First piezoelectric discharge was observed for both wire and belt and it occurred only when the AFM tip touched the end of the bent wire belt. Second the piezoelectric discharge occurred only when the AFM tip touched the compressed side of the wire belt and there was no voltage output if the tip touched the stretched side of the wire belt. Third the piezoelectric discharge gives negative output voltage as measured from the load R. Finally while viewing a topography image it was noticed that the voltage output event occurred when the AFM tip was about finished crossing the width of the wire belt which means that the discharge event was delayed to the last half of the contact between the tip and the wire belt .

In order to explain the observed phenomena examine the potential distribution in the wire belt based on piezoelectric induced potential distribution. Simply consider the polarization introduced in a belt as a result of elastic deformation. The relationship between strain and the local piezo electric field E is given by dE where d is the piezoelectric coefficient. For a belt of thickness T and length L under the displacement of an external force F from the AFM tip applied perpendicularly at the top of the belt z L a strain field in the belt would be formed. For any segment of the belt along its length the local bending is described by its local curvature 1 R R is the local radius for describing the bending of the belt which is related to the shape of the belt by 

Examining the contact between the AFM conductive tip with the stretched and compressed side surfaces of the belt shows that the compressed side of the semiconductor ZnO wire belt has negative potential V and the stretched side has positive potential V . This is the cause of the two distinct transport processes across the Schottky barrier at the interface as described below. When the tip contacts the stretched side surface the Pt metal tip has a potential of nearly zero V 0 the metal tip belt interface is negatively biased for V V V0. The interface is thus a positively biased Schottky diode and it is possible to have current flow from the tip through the belt . The flow of electrons is to neutralize the piezoelectric ionic charges distributed in volume resulting in a sudden increase in the output electric current. The output voltage measured on the load is negative in reference to the grounded root of the belt with consideration the flowing direction of the current.

The elastic deformation energy as created by the displacement force F is mainly dissipated in three ways creating mechanical resonance vibration after releasing the belt generating piezoelectric discharge energy for each cycle of the vibration and overcoming the friction and viscosity if any from the environmental and substrate. The mechanical resonance of the belt may continue for many cycles but it is eventually damped by the viscosity of the medium. The piezoelectric voltage output is generated in each cycle of the vibration but the AFM tip in the experimental design may be too slow to collect the electric signal output from each cycle of the belt vibration. It was found that the discharge signal can sometimes be collected for an extensive period of time during which the belt may have resonated for over 10 cycles producing a continuous and constant output DC voltage. As the resonance frequency of the wire was about 10 KHz and the scanning speed of the tip was about 10 m s it is feasible that the wire had contacted the AFM probe tip over 100 times before it departed to the point that it was too far away to make contact. It was observed that a piezoelectric output voltage is created in each cycle of vibration. Thus a DC power source can be created by continuously collecting the output voltage.

There is current flow only when the AFM tip is in contact with the compressed side of the belt wire. If the AFM probe tip contacts the stretched side no output current is possible even under extremely large elastic deformation. This expected result was observed where a ZnO wire was subjected to a large deformation but no output voltage was received.

By deflecting a wire belt using a conductive AFM tip in contact mode the energy was first created by the deflection force and stored by piezoelectric potential and later converted into piezo electric energy. The mechanism of the generator is the result of coupled semiconducting and piezoelectric properties of ZnO. The piezoelectric effect is required to create electric potential of ionic charges from elastic deformation the semiconducting property is required to preserve the charges and then release the potential via the rectifying behavior of the Schottky barrier at the metal ZnO interface which serves as a switch in the entire process. The good conductivity of ZnO makes current flow possible. This process may also be possible for wurtzite structured materials such as GaN and ZnS.

A second embodiment of a generator is shown in in which a first conductive contact is disposed at the first end and a second conductive contact is disposed at the second end . The second conductive contact could be either placed against the semiconductor piezoelectric structure or placed against the substrate if the substrate is made of a conductive material. A load is coupled between the first conductive contact and the second conductive contact so that when a force is applied to the first end in direction F a current I flows through the load .

A third embodiment is shown in . In this embodiment the first conductive contact has an uneven surface. As a downward force is applied to the first conductive contact as shown in part of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure makes contact with the first conductive contact . This causes the semiconductor piezoelectric structure to bend and a potential difference forms between the two sides of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure . Initially as shown in only the positive side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure is in contact with the first conductive contact which creates a reverse biased Schottky barrier through which no current flows. However once the first conductive contact has been pushed down far enough the negative side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure makes contact with the first conductive contact thereby forming a forward biased Schottky barrier and allowing current to flow through the load . The fact that the positive side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure may still be touching the first conductive contact makes no difference since the Schottky barrier between the positive side and the first conductive contact is still reverse biased and therefore no current will flow through the positive side.

The device in the forward biased state has an energy band gap diagram as shown in in which the conduction energy level E of the compressed side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure which is ZnO in the example presented is greater than the Fermi energy E of the metal. Given that a negative potential V exists between the metal and the compressed side current is able to flow from the metal to the semiconductor piezoelectric structure using the convention that current represents the flow of charge from positive to negative across the Schottky barrier . When the metal is in contact with the stretched side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure as shown in the conduction energy level E of the compressed side is not greater than the Fermi energy E of the metal and since the stretched side has a positive potential relative to the potential of the metal current is not allowed to flow across the Schottky barrier .

One embodiment as shown in employs an array of zinc oxide ZnO nanostructures with a corrugated conductor placed above the nanostructures . A load is coupled to the base of the nanostructure array forming an Ohmic contact therebetween and to the corrugated conductor . A micrograph of suitable ZnO nanostructures is shown in . In an alternate embodiment as shown in a sheet defining a plurality of nano bowls is used as the conductive contact. A micrograph of a plurality of nano bowls is shown in . Suitable nano bowls may be fabricated according to a method disclosed in detail in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0224779 A1 Ser. No. 11 010 178 filed on Dec. 10 2004 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. This embodiment could be employed in generating electricity from body movement. For example this embodiment could be applied to the soles of a pair of shoes to generated electricity while the person wearing the shoes walks.

An embodiment that employs an array of nanowires that are activated by a reciprocating contact is shown in . The reciprocating contact which is coupled to a load includes a metal contact blade that is driven by an actuator such as a piston type actuator.

A rotating generator is shown in in which a semiconductor piezoelectric structure includes a plurality of nanorods extending radially from a core and that is capable of rotating about an axis in rotational direction R. The conductive contact which is coupled to a load defines an opening that is disposed so that as the nanorods are drawn against edges of the contact as the semiconductor piezoelectric structure rotates. In this embodiment flowing fluid can cause the semiconductor piezoelectric structure to rotate much in the way that a windmill rotates. This embodiment could be used as a generator within fluid flow structures such as a blood vessel or a water pipe.

An embodiment for converting vibrational energy into electrical energy is shown in in which an array of semiconductor piezoelectric nanostructures is placed in an opposing relationship to an array of conductive nanorods and is coupled thereto via a load . A first end of at least some of the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods is adjacent to a first end of at least some of a set of the conductive nanorods so that as the conductive nanorods vibrate laterally in directions V and V with respect to the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods a forward biased Schottky barrier is formed by contact of at least one of the conductive nanorods and at least one of the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods thereby generating an electrical current. A micrograph of an array of semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods is shown in .

In one method of making a generator as shown in a plurality of catalyst particles such as gold particles is placed on a substrate . Zinc oxide nanowires are then grown from the catalyst particles using a process of the type disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0224779 A1. A deformable layer such as a layer of an organic polymer is deposited onto the substrate to a level so that the deformable layer surrounds each of the plurality of zinc oxide semiconductor piezoelectric structures to a predetermined level. An uneven conductive contact layer is placed above the nanowires so that as a downward force in the direction of the arrows is applied to the conductive contact layer forward biased Schottky barriers are formed in the manner discussed with reference to and a current is applied to the load . In this embodiment the deformable layer maintains the attitude of the nanowires keeps them separated and prevents them from peeling off of the substrate .

This embodiment may be subjected to extremely large deformation so that they can be used for flexible electronics as a flexible or foldable power source. One reason for choosing zinc oxide in this embodiment is that it is a biocompatible and bio safe material and thus it has a potential for being implanted as a power source in the human body. The flexibility of the polymer substrate used for growing zinc oxide nanowires makes it feasible to accommodate the flexibility of human muscles so that it can use mechanical energy body movement muscle stretching in the human body to generate electricity.

The embodiment shown in may also respond to acoustic wave or ultrasonic wave energy as shown in . Resonance of the nanowires as a one end free beam can also generate electricity.

The principles and technology demonstrated here have the potential of converting mechanical movement energy such as body movement muscle stretching blood pressure vibration energy such as acoustic ultrasonic wave and hydraulic energy such as flow of body fluid blood flow contraction of blood vessel dynamic fluid in nature into electric energy that may be sufficient for self powering nanodevices and nanosystems. The technology could have important applications in wireless self powered nanodevices by harvesting energy from the environment. It may also provide a method for indirectly charging of a battery. It may be possible to fabricate large power output electric generator by using arrays of ZnO wires belts which can be grown on substrates such as metal foils flexible organic plastic substrates ceramic substrates such as alumina and compound semiconductors such as GaN and AIN . The nano generator could be the basis for using self powering technology for in situ real time and implantable biosensing biomedical monitoring and biodetection. It could have the potential of solving key energy requirement for remote sensing and actuating.

In one embodiment as shown in the nanostructures could be patterned in clusters or as shown in individual nanostructures arranged in a pattern. In one embodiment as shown in the conductive contact could include an array of conductive pyramids .

In one experimental embodiment of a nanogenerator shown in an array of aligned ZnO nanowires was covered by a corrugated electrode that included a silicon structure coated with platinum. Force applied to the silicon structure is conveyed to the nanowires causing them to bend. The platinum coating not only enhanced the conductivity of the electrode platinum but also created a Schottky contact at the interface with ZnO nanowires . The nanowires were grown on either GaN or sapphire substrates that were covered by a thin layer of ZnO film which served as a common electrode for directly connecting with an external circuit. The density of the nanowires was approximately 10 m with heights of approximately 1.0 m and diameters of approximately 40 nm. The top electrode is composed of parallel zigzag trenches fabricated on a 001 orientated Si wafer and coated with a thin layer of Pt 200 nm in thickness . The electrode was placed above the nanowires and manipulated by a probe station under an optical microscope to achieve precise positioning the spacing was controlled by soft polymer film strips sandwiched in between at the four sides only two of which are shown for simplicity.

The resistance of the nanowires was monitored during the assembling process to ensure a reasonable contact between the nanowires and the electrode by tuning the thickness of the polymer film strips . Then the nanogenerator was sealed at the edges to prevent the penetration of water liquid.

The packaged device as shown in was supported by a metal plate which was direct in contact with water contained in the cavity of an ultrasonic generator . The operation frequency of the ultrasonic wave was around 41 KHz. The output current and voltage were measured by an external circuit at room temperature.

When subject to the excitation of an ultrasonic wave the zigzag electrode would move downwardly and push onto the nanowires which resulted in a lateral deflection of the nanowires creating a strain field across the width of each nanowire with the nanowire s outer surface being in tensile and its inner surface in compressive strain. The inversion of strain across the nanowire resulted in an inversion of piezoelectric field Ealong the nanowire which produced a piezoelectric potential inversion from V negative to V positive across the nanowire . When the electrode made contact with the stretched surface of a nanowire which had a positive piezoelectric potential the Pt metal ZnO semiconductor interface became a reversely biased Schottky barrier resulting in little current flowing across the interface. With further pushing of the electrode the bent nanowire would reach the other side of the adjacent tooth of the zigzag electrode which was also in contact with the compressed side of the nanowire where the metal semiconductor interface was a forward biased Schottky barrier. This resulted in a sudden increase in the output electric current flowing from the top electrode into the nanowire which is a discharge process.

The nanowires producing current in the nanogenerator are equivalent to a voltage source Vplus an inner resistance Rthat also contains the contact resistance between the active nanowires and the electrode . On the other hand there are a lot of nanowires that are in contact with the electrode but cannot be bent or move freely thus they do not actively participate in the current generation but they do provide a path for conducting current. These nanowires are simply represented by a resistance Rthat is parallel to the portion that generates power. A resistance Ris introduced to represent the contact resistance between the electrode and an external measurement circuit. The capacitance in the system is ignored in the circuit for simplifying modeling of DC measurement.

The current output of the nanogenerator is shown in with the ultrasonic wave being turned on and off regularly. A current jump was observed when the ultrasonic wave generator not shown was turned on and the current immediately fell back to the baseline once the ultrasonic wave generator was turned off.

The output electricity of the nanogenerator was continuous and reasonably stable. The output current was in the nano Ampere range. The current signal showed no direct coupling with the frequency of the ultrasonic waves being applied because the wave frequency was approximately 80 times less than the resonance frequency of the current generated by the nanogenerator . The size of the nanogenerator was approximately 2 mmin effective substrate surface area. The number of nanowires that were actively contributing to the observed output current was estimated to be 250 1000. The nanogenerator worked continuously for an extended period of time of beyond one hour.

This experimental design was tested in comparison to the experiments conducted using different materials or configurations. Using the design shown in but replacing the ZnO nanowire array with an array of carbon nanotubes CNTs no jump in current was observed when the ultrasonic wave was turned on. This was because CNTs are not piezoelectric. Similarly using a ZnO nanowire array but using a flat not zigzagged top electrode that totally covered the tips of the nanowires also resulted in no jump in output current.

In one embodiment shown in an n type ZnO nanowire can be used to produce a p n junction that serves as a diode by placing the nanowire on a substrate holding a first end in place with a first conductive nano probe tip and bending an opposite second end of the nanowire with a second conductive nano probe tip that remains in contact with the expanded side of the nanowire . If a voltage source is coupled to the first tip then current will flow through the nanowire into the second tip into a common voltage .

This design is based on mechanical bending of a ZnO nanowire . As a result the potential energy barrier induced by piezoelectricity across the bent nanowire governs the electric transport through the nanowire . To quantify the current voltage I V characteristics received at different level of the deformation were tied in with theoretical calculation. The magnitude of the piezoelectric barrier dominates rectifying effect. The rectifying ratio could be as high as 8.7 1 by simply bending a nanowire . The operation current ratio of straight and bent ZnO nanowire could be as high as 9.3 1 at reverse bias. It also shows that the nanowire can serve as a random access memory RAM unit.

The phase of nanowires is hexagonal quartzite structured ZnO. The growth direction of ZnO nanowire was determined to be 0001 .

In one experimental embodiment the performance of in situ I V measurements and the manipulation of ZnO nanowires were carried out in a multi probe nano electronics measurement MPNEM system. The two terminal method was applied for electrical transport measurements at high vacuum to minimize the influences from the environment. The W nano tip used for measuring the electrical transport of a nanowire was pre coated with a Ti Au 30 nm 30 nm film by electron beam evaporation for obtaining ohmic contact between Ti and ZnO. Creating ohmic contact is a key step for the measurements. Focusing the nanowire and the W nano tip in the MPNEM system simultaneously in the same focal plane guaranteed that they were contacted and placed at the same height on the surface of the SiNlayer.

The first nano tip is used to apply voltage from the voltage source and measure the current through the nanowire . By controlling lateral and longitudinal motions of two nano tips and with highly sensitive probing techniques the manipulation of nanowire and its I V measurements were carried out in situ in the SEM. For eliminating the effect from the electron beam in the SEM the electron beam of the SEM was turned off when measuring I V. The I V characteristics were measured by sweeping the voltage from 5 to 5 V. After the measurement the electron beam was turned on again to ensure the preservation of shape and position of the nanowire. Then the nanowire was bent further by moving upper nano tip under direct imaging condition. At the first contact of the nanowire with the second tip the nanowire was already bent a little because a pushing force was necessary for a good electrical contact. The corresponding linear and symmetric I V characteristic shows that the Ti Au to ZnO nanowire is an ohmic contact instead of a double back to back Schottky contact. As the bending proceeded the electric current dropped significantly with negative bias exhibiting the asymmetric I V behaviors with the increased strain. The nano tips and were firmly attached to the nanowire without sliding indicating the contacts was well retained during bending process and should not cause any change in contact resistance or contact area under bending process. The reverse current dropped severely at reverse bias voltage when the nanowire was bent further. When the nanowire was under significant bending the reverse current at 5 V bias could be as low as 6.6 A and the rectifying ratio at 5 V was up to 8.7 1 . Due to large elasticity of the nanowire the measurements of these devices are reversible. The details in electric current at reverse bias and rectifying ratio at 5 V under continuously changing bending curvature are listed in Table 1 below. The potential energy barrier height induced by piezoelectricity will be discussed in details later. The ZnO nanowire under bending shows certain rectifying I V characteristics similar to the result of a p n junction. The substantial bending of nanowire and absence of symmetric I V characteristic suggest that electric transport in nanowire may be governed by an internal field created by bending.

A bent ZnO nanowire can produce an piezoelectric electric field E along and across the nanowire due to strain induced piezoelectric effect. The discussion on observed phenomena is for illustrating the physical process and principle rather than a rigorous numerical calculation. Considering the piezoelectric effect introduced in a single nanowire as a result of elastic deformation for a simulated case in a nanowire of 490 nm thickness and 21 m length under the displacement of an external force F from the nano tip applied at the surface of nanowire the deflection of the ZnO nanowire creates a strain field. The outer surface is stretched positive strain and the inner surface is compressed negative at the area contacting with nano tip. The magnitude of the deflection increases with the increase of degree of bending resulting in an increase of strain field. An electric field Ealong the nanowire is then created inside the nanowire through the piezoelectric effect E d where d is the piezoelectric coefficient. The piezoelectric field direction is closely parallel to the nanowire direction z axis at the outer surface and antiparallel to the z axis at the inner surface. With the increase of the bending of the nanowire the density of the piezoelectric charges on the surface also increases. The potential is created by the relative displacement of the Zn cations with respect to the O anions a result of the piezoelectric effect in the wurtzite crystal structure. Thus these ionic charges cannot freely move and cannot recombine without releasing the strain. The potential difference is maintained as long as the deformation is in place.

Assuming that before bending there is no energy barrier but contact resistance between Ti and ZnO then the nano tip pushes a nanowire and bents it and a positive potential is produced at the stretched side of the nanowire due to piezoelectric effect. As a result an energy barrier is produced at the interface between the tip and the nanowire with the nanowire being at the higher potential. The actual potential distribution is not fixed due to the nonuniform distribution of strain. However for the ease of comprehension the potential distribution may be simplified. As shown in which is a plot of electron potential energy as a function of location on the nanowire for the bent ZnO nanowire under forward bias the electrons have not been blocked by this energy barrier. On the other hand under reverse bias electrons need to overcome the energy barrier resulted from piezoelectric electric field. This energy diagram corresponds well to the result of electric transport measurements on bent ZnO. Such an energy barrier is effectively served as a p n junction barrier at the interface that resists the current flow from the tip to the nanowire but current can flow from the nanowire to the tip . The magnitude of the barrier increases with the increase of degree of bending resulting in a drastic increase of rectifying effect due to piezoelectric potential energy barrier. This is a simple piezoelectric gated diode. To quantify the barrier height produced by piezoelectricity here it is assumed that electric current also follows the typical I V characteristics of diode. The reverse current is 1 where is potential energy barrier resulted from piezoelectricity Iis the reverse saturation current V the applied voltage k the Bolzmann s constant 8.617 10eV T T the absolute temperature and A constant. Considering electric current at 5 voltages and room temperature with bending degree the above equation could be simplified as follows since e 1 term is a constant. where A is constant. Assume that current is 61.4 A as is zero where there is no deflection observed Table 1 A is determined to be 61.4 A. Therefore by the given electric current from Table 1 this could lead to an estimation of to be 9.82 meV for sequence 2 and 27.37 meV for sequence 3 and 57.66 meV for sequence 4 respectively. Theoretical calculation conjunct with experimental measurements confirms that the magnitude of the piezoelectric barrier dominates rectifying effect. The barrier height estimated here agrees well to the electrical energy out from a single ZnO nanowire for NW based piezoelectric power nanogenerator.

Moreover mechanical force was applied to control the electric output to determine 1 and 0 states. Each nanowire array corresponds to a device element for memory application. With applied 5 V bias by applying mechanical force the operating current ratio of straight and bent ZnO nanowire could be as high as 9.3 1. These two appearance to well defined 1 and 0 states OFF and ON states that is the shape will be highly sensitive to electric current due to piezoelectricity. A device element could be switched between these 1 and 0 by mechanical force to receive different electric signals. On the basis of this switching mode one can characterize the elements as nanoscale electromechanical devices.

In summary nano manipulation was performed to measure the in situ I V characteristics of a single ZnO nanowire. The electric transport was dominated by piezoelectric characteristic of ZnO which is induced by stain. It has been demonstrated that a single ZnO nanowire can be a rectifier simply by mechanical bending similar to a p n junction based diode. To quantify the barrier height produced by piezoelectricity the I V characteristics received at different level of the deformation were tied in with theoretical calculation. In addition under appropriate bending and voltage control each nanowire array could correspond to a device element for RAM application.

The I V characteristic of a ZnO nanowire behaves like a rectifier under bending which is interpreted with the consideration of a piezoelectricity induced potential energy barrier at the conductive tip and the ZnO interface. Under appropriate bending and voltage control each nanowire could correspond to a device element for random assess memory diode and force sensor.

In one embodiment as shown in a nano scale gated electronic device corresponding to a field effect transistor FET may be made using a piezoelectric nanowire without using the gate electrode. By connecting a ZnO nanowire across two electrodes and that can apply a bending force to the nanowire the electric field created by piezoelectricity across the bent nanowire serves as the gate for controlling the electric current flowing through the nanowire when the electrodes and are coupled to a voltage source . This piezoelectric field effect transistor PE FET can be turned on off by applying mechanical force F . In one experimental embodiment it has been demonstrated as force sensor for measuring forces in nano Newton range and even smaller.

In the experimental embodiment experimental measurement was carried out in situ in the chamber of a scanning electron microscope SEM . Inside the SEM chamber an x y mechanical stage with a fine moving step of 50 nm was located beside the SEM sample stage. The mechanical stage can be controlled independently from the outside of the SEM. A tungsten needle with a machined and polished tip was attached on the stage and connected to the positive electrode of an external power source. ZnO nanowires were synthesized by the well established technique of thermal evaporation in a tube furnace. A single nanowire sample was prepared by aligning the nanowire on the edge of a silicon substrate using a probe station. The extended length of the nanowire was 100 m while the other side of the nanowire was fixed onto the silicon substrate by conductive sliver paint through which the nanowire was connected to the negative electrode of the power source. The silicon substrate was placed on the sample stage with the nanowire pointing at the tungsten needle tip. Both the silver paint and W have ohmic contact with ZnO. When the required vacuum was achieved in the SEM chamber the tungsten needle tip was first moved to the center of the image screen. The ZnO nanowire was then controlled to approach the needle tip by controlling the SEM stage. Focusing the nanowire and the needle tip at the same time guaranteed that they were aligned at the same height level.

Before making the contact the ZnO nanowire was examined under the SEM at a higher resolution. The length of the suspension part of the nanowire was 88.5 m. The tip of the nanowire was flat and clean and the faceted side surfaces could be clearly observed. The width of this nanowire was measured to be 370 nm. TEM analysis revealed the single crystal structure of the ZnO nanowire and the growth direction was along 0001 .

In order to achieve a good electrical contact between the ZnO nanowire and the tungsten tip a field emission process was introduced at the first stage to clean the nanowire tip and welding the connection. During the field emission the ZnO nanowire was kept at 10 m away from the tungsten surface where a 400 V was applied. Under this condition the emission current could reach as high as 1 A. After 1 minute emission the high voltage was turned off and the ZnO nanowire was quickly moved toward the tungsten surface to make a contact. This process was repeated several times and it was found to be effective for making the ohmic contact possibly due to the high temperature generated at the tip by the emission process as well as the desorption of the surface contaminant.

In the first contact of the nanowire with the W tip the nanowire was already bent a little bit because a pushing force was necessary for a good electrical contact. Then the electron beam of the SEM was turned off and the I V characteristic was measured by sweeping the voltage from 5 to 5 V. This is to eliminate the effect from the electron beam in SEM. After the measurement the electron beam was turned back on again and the nanowire was bent further by moving the SEM stage in situ under direct imaging. The bending of the nanowire was recorded. Following such a procedure a sequential measurement was carried out. The five typical bending curvatures of the ZnO nanowire and their corresponding I V curves are shown in . The symmetric shape of the I V curves indicates good ohmic contacts at the both ends of the nanowire . Among the five bending cases the current dropped significantly with the increasing of bending curves b to e indicating the decreased conductance with the increased strain.

Returning to this phenomenon was further confirmed by continuously changing the bending curvature under SEM observation. In this measurement the applied voltage was fixed at 5 V and the current was continuously recorded while the ZnO nanowire was pulled back from large bending to almost straight and then pushed down again. When the nanowire was under significant compression the current was only 5 nA stage I in . As the nanowire was slowly released and recovered its straight shape the current increased continuously with the decreasing of bending curvature and the current was stabilized at 40 nA. The current dropped immediately when the nanowire was bent further. This reveals a reversible sequence that the current passing through the ZnO nanowire at a fixed voltage was approximately inversely proportional to its bending curvature. Higher magnification SEM images were also taken at the contacting point when the nanowire was straight and highly bent. The nanowire was firmly attached to the tungsten needle surface without sliding indicating the contacting was well retained during bending process and should not cause any change in contact resistance.

Examining the mechanisms that are responsible for the change of conductance when a semiconductor crystal is under strain the change in electrical conductance is normally referred to as piezoresistance effect which is usually caused by a change in band gap width as a result of strained lattice. The change of resistance is given by where is the resistance l is the original length and is the piezoresistance coefficient. This equation is for a case of a crystal that is subjected to a homogeneous strain. Practically in order to achieve a detectable change in resistance a semiconductor strain sensor is normally affixed to the surface of the object of which the strain is to be measured. The built up strain in the object is equivalently picked up by the semiconductor slab which is either stretched or compressed homogeneously through its entire volume.

However in our experiment the strain in the bent ZnO nanowire is not homogeneous across its cross section. Finite element analysis was used to simulate the strain distribution in a bent nanowire with hexagonal cross section. The calculation was for a nanowire with aspect ration of 100. After subjecting to a bending the inner arc surface of the nanowire is compressed l l0 and area close to the center of the nanowire is strain free. This means that across the cross section l varies linearly from the maximum negative value to the maximum positive value. Moreover the total piezoresistance of the nanowire is an integration of l l across the nanowire cross section and its length. As discussed above the total piezoresistance of the bent nanowire is close to zero under the first order approximation because of the nearly anti symmetric distribution of the strain across the width of the nanowire . Therefore the change in resistance of the nanowire as a result of bending is negligible.

It is important to point out that ZnO is a material that simultaneously has semiconducting and piezoelectric properties. It is worth to examining the coupling between the two properties. A 75 decrease in in plane conductance of a semiconducting Si slab has been observed when it was sandwiched between two pieces of piezoelectric PZT crystals that were busted by an ac power across the thickness. The drop in the conductance of Si in the direction transverse to the propagation direction of the elastic wave in PZT was attributed to the trapping of free carriers at the surfaces of the silicon plate. This is a result of coupling between a semiconductor Si crystal and a PZT piezoelectric crystal. This coupling effect can now be achieved in a single ZnO nanowire due to its semiconducting and piezoelectric dual properties.

A bent ZnO nanowire can produce a positively charged and negatively charged surface at the outer and inner bending arc surfaces of the nanowire due to the stretching and compression on the surfaces respectively. The charges are induced by piezoelectric effect and the charges are static and non mobile ionic charges. The local electric field is E d where d is the piezoelectric coefficient. Thus a small electric field would be generated across the width of the ZnO nanowire. Upon the build up of the electric field two possible effects can be proposed to account for the reduction of the NW s conductance carrier trapping effect and the creation of a charge depletion zone.

When the piezo potential appears across the bent nanowire some free electrons in the n type ZnO nanowire may be trapped at the positive side surface outer arc surface and become non movable charges thus lowering the effective carrier density in the nanowire. On the other hand even the positive potential side could be partially neutralized by the trapped electrons the negative potential remains unchanged. Hence the piezo induced electric field is retained across the width of the nanowire. This situation is similar to the case of applying a gate voltage across the width of the ZnO nanowire as for a typical nanowire FET. The free electrons will be repulsed away by the negative potential and leave a charge depletion zone around the compressed side. Consequently the width of the conducting channel in the ZnO nanowire becomes smaller and smaller while the depletion region becomes larger and larger with the increase of the nanowire bending. These two effects are likely to contribute to the dramatic drop of the conductance of the ZnO nanowire with the increase of bending. The maximum width that the depletion zone can develop is up to the strain free plane close to central axis of the nanowire with consideration the piezoelectric field which naturally sets an upper limit to the effect contributed by the depletion charges.

The structure shown in is the working principle of a FET except that the gate voltage is produced by piezoelectric effect. Therefore the single ZnO nanowire across two ohmic contacts is a piezoelectric field effect transistor PE FET which is a unique coupling result of the semiconducting and piezoelectric properties of ZnO.

Since the bending curvature of the nanowire is directly related to the force applied to it a simple PE FET force pressure sensor is realized. The important step for calibrating the force pressure sensor is how to quantitatively determine the force applied to the nanowire . When the nanowire is pressed vertically under small deflection angle approximation the nanowire is deflected mainly due to the transverse force Fand the bending shape of the nanowire is given by 

With the increase of bending at higher transverse force 17 nN the dropping tendency of the conductance was reduced. This can also be understood from the two processes. At the beginning of bending both contributions from the carrier trapping effect and the depletion zone increased with the bending curvature thus producing a quick drop of the conductance. However unlike the normal gate controlled FETs there was a positive potential on the outer side of the nanowire which increased simultaneously with the negative potential at the inner side during the bending. The depletion region cannot extend beyond the neutral plane of the nanowire to the positive potential side. Thus when the nanowire was bent to a significant degree the piezoelectric field could not increase the size of the charge depletion zone hence cannot reduce the size of the conduction channel.

The calculations above generally assume a nanowire that is subject to a small degree of bending. A non linear effect has to be included if the degree of bending is large. This may cause significant change in the calibration of the measured force at larger applied forces. For practical application as force sensors the measurements are recommended to be carried out under small deflections.

One embodiment shown in is a sensor that is configured to sense both the amount of force or pressure applied to the sensor by an object and the location of the object. The sensor employs a nanowire array extending upwardly from a substrate . A pixilated electrode layer that includes an array of conductive and addressable electrodes which could be made out of gold or aluminum affixed to a thin flexible polymer film is placed above the nanowire array . A power source is coupled to the substrate and the electrodes through a current detector . The current detector may also transmit data to a display or other type of interface.

By laying the pixel side of the electrode layer downwards onto the ZnO nanowire array an ohmic contact will be formed between the ZnO nanowires and the electrodes after annealing. Depending on the spacing of aligned nanowires and the size of the pixels one or several nanowires will connect to each pixel electrode and independently act as force sensor device. The current detector is connected to the electrode array and scans across each pixel electrode collecting the current signal when a small DC voltage is applied between the bottom electrode substrate and top pixel electrode array . The sensor can act as a force imaging device with high sensitivity and resolution such as high resolution shape recorder

As shown in the sensor could be configured to detect fingerprints . Such a configuration could detect not only the location of the stylus but also the pressure being applied by it. When a finger is pressed onto the flexible top plate the extrusion of the figure surface will press the polymer film downwards at the contact region thus bends the nanowires underneath. The bending induced resistance change will reduce the current flowing through those pixels. The current signal from each pixel is colleted by the current monitor and compared with their original value. By converting the current variation into force signal according to the linear relationship the high resolution shape of the fingerprint can be mapped out.

As shown in the sensor could be used with a stylus and configured to detect a signature . The sensor could trace the motion and intensity of force applied by the stylus so as to record and recognize a digital signature . By keeping the current monitor scanning the pixel array at a relatively high frequency such as a few kHz the motion of the stylus on the top plate can be recorded. Meanwhile the intensity of the force applied at each point can also be identified through the amplitude of the current signal change. This technique will not only record the image of a signature but also the writing sequence and corresponding strength. With all of this information the authenticity of a digital signature would be highly enhanced and could add an additional layer of security in verifying signatures on line.

One method of making a force sensing sensor is shown in . Initially a plurality of ZnO nanowires is grown on a single crystal substrate such as through a vapor liquid solid process. By controlling the thickness of a gold catalyst layer a continuous ZnO bottom layer can be formed under the ZnO nanowires so that all of the nanowires are electrically connected. A layer of PMMA is spin coated with a thickness less than the height of the nanowires . A thin layer of an Al Au alloy about 50 nm thick is deposited on top of the PMMA layer so as to contact the tops of the nanowires . The size and location of the tip electrode can be controlled by using TEM grids as masks during the deposition process. The PMMA layer is completely removed by immersing it in a solvent such as acetone for about 24 hours or until the layer is completely removed. The edges are sealed with an insulating material such as epoxy. The top layer and the bottom layer are then connected to a current sensor and may be also coupled to a voltage source .

In this configuration when external pressure is applied on the top the electrode layer will bend down as shown in . The ZnO nanowires will bend also and a potential change will be induced between the top layer and the bottom conductive layer . A current flow can then be detected by the current sensor . This sensor can be made small e.g. about 10 square micrometers and can be implanted in vessels or cells to perform in vivo pressure measurements.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

