---

title: Capillary interconnect device
abstract: An interconnecting device for connecting a plurality of first fluid-bearing conduits to a corresponding plurality of second fluid-bearing conduits thereby providing fluid communication between the first fluid-bearing conduits and the second fluid-bearing conduits. The device includes a manifold and one or two ferrule plates that are held by compressive axial forces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08585986&OS=08585986&RS=08585986
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08585986
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071109
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 350 541 originally filed Jan. 24 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 311 882 entitled CAPILLARY INTERCONNECT DEVICE from which benefit of priority is claimed.

This invention was made with Government support under government contract DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

The present invention relates generally to microfluidic systems and more particularly to structures which facilitate the introduction of fluids into devices having microfluidic channels.

Microfluidic devices or substrates typically consist of two or more microchannels or capillaries that can range in size from about 5 100 m wide and 5 100 m deep etched or molded in a substrate that can be silicon plastic quartz glass or plastic. Microfluidic substrates may be fabricated using photolithographic techniques similar to those used in the semiconductor industry and the resulting devices can be used to perform a variety of sophisticated chemical and biological analytical techniques. Microfluidic analytical technology has a number of advantages including the ability to use very small sample sizes typically on the order of nanoliters. The substrates may be produced at a relatively low cost and can be formatted to perform numerous specific analytical operations including mixing dispensing valving reactions and detections.

Another recently developed class of sample receiving microfluidic substrates includes substrates having a capillary interface that allows compounds to be brought onto the test substrate from an external source and which can be advantageously used in a number of assay formats for high throughput screening applications. These assay formats include fluorogenic assays fluorescence polarization assays non fluorogenic mobility shift assays dose response assays and calcium flux cell based assays.

Other applications for microfluidic devices include diagnostics involving biomolecules and other analytical techniques such as micro total analysis systems. Such devices often referred to in the art as microchips also may be fabricated from plastic with the channels being etched machined or injection molded into individual substrates. Multiple substrates may be suitably arranged and laminated to construct a microchip of desired function and geometry. In all cases the channels used to carry out the analyses typically are of capillary scale dimension.

To fully exploit the technological advances offered by the use of microfluidic devices and to maintain the degree of sensitivity for analytical techniques when processing small volumes e.g. microliters or less connectors which introduce and or withdraw fluids i.e. liquids and gases from the device as well as interconnect microfluidic devices are crucial components in the use and performance of the microfluidic device. For example chromatographic applications require an injection port that can introduce a sample into a flow stream. The varied uses of these microfluidic devices require connectors that are both versatile and resilient. The physical stresses placed on these connectors can be demanding. Not only must the connectors be inert to reactive substances that are injected into the microchannels such as organic solvents but also they must remain leak free when exposed to pressures that can reach as high as 10 000 psi. Moreover these connectors must be able to act as an interface for connecting microscale devices such as injectors and fluid reservoirs to microscale capillary tubes. However because of the extremely small tolerances involved this has been difficult to achieve. Typically capillary tubes have outer diameters on the order of 150 to 365 m and nominal internal diameters of from 50 to 75 m or less with tolerances as small as a few microns yet these capillary tubes must be accurately aligned.

A common technique used in the past involves bonding a length of tubing to a port on the microfluidic device with epoxy or other suitable adhesive. Adhesive bonding is unsuitable for many chemical analysis applications because the solvents used attack the adhesive which can lead to channel clogging detachment of the tubing and or contamination of the sample and or reagents in or delivered to the device. Furthermore adhesive bonding results in a permanent attachment of the tubing to the microfluidic device which makes it difficult to change components i.e. either the microfluidic device or the tubing if necessary. Thus assembly repair and maintenance of such devices become labor and time intensive a particularly undesirable feature when the microfluidic device is used for high throughput screening of samples such as in drug discovery.

To avoid problems associated with adhesive bonding other techniques have been proposed e.g. press fitting the tubing into a port on the microfluidic device. However such a connection typically is unsuitable for high pressure applications such as HPLC. Additionally pressing the tubing into a port creates high stress loads on the microfluidic device which could lead to fractures of the channels and or device.

Other methods involved introducing liquids into an open port on the microfluidic device with the use of an external delivery system such as a pipette. However this technique also is undesirable due to the possibility of leaks and spills which may lead to contamination. In addition the fluid is delivered discretely rather than continuously. Moreover the use of open pipetting techniques does not permit the use of elevated pressure for fluid delivery such as delivered by a pump thereby further restricting the applicability of the microfluidic device.

Microfluidic devices generally comprise an array of micron sized wells or reservoirs and interconnecting channels disposed on a substrate. The wells are connected to distribution means for dispensing fluids to and collecting fluids from the array. Connection to the wells is typically by means of a micropipette end. While this serves for benign addition of fluids this means of fluid addition cannot be used for those applications where the access ports are exposed to a pressure differential or where it is desired to connect capillary tubes to fluid wells.

Typically in microscale devices the microchannels are terminated by ports or wells that provide access to the microchannels. Materials are added to the microchannels through these ports or wells. Access to the ports is typically by means of a micropipette end. While this serves for benign addition fluids it cannot be used for those applications where the access ports are exposed to a pressure differential or adverse environments.

Therefore a need exists for an improved microfluidic connector which is useful with all types of microfluidic devices and which provides an effective high pressure connector with low fluid dead volume seal. In general the connector should be able to connect a first set of capillaries to a second set of capillaries. The first set can be external capillaries whereas the second set can be from a microfluidic device.

The invention is based in part on the development of an interconnecting device for connecting a plurality of first fluid bearing conduits to a corresponding plurality of second fluid bearing conduits thereby providing fluid communication between the first fluid bearing conduits and the second fluid bearing conduits. In one embodiment the connector includes 

a manifold that is positioned on the support plate and that defines a plurality of recess regions within the manifold and having a plurality of channels wherein each channel has a first opening at a lower end of each recess region and a second opening at a lower surface of the manifold wherein each of the second fluid bearing conduits is positioned within one of the channels so that the distal end of each second fluid bearing conduit is positioned in or near the first opening 

a ferrule plate that is positioned on the manifold and that defines a plurality of protrusions wherein each protrusion fits into a corresponding recess region of the manifold and the ferrule plate has a plurality of passages with each passage traversing the height of the ferrule plate and through the protrusion and wherein each of the first fluid bearing conduits is positioned within one of the passages so that the proximal end of each first fluid bearing conduit abuts the distal end of a corresponding second fluid bearing conduit and

means for applying an axial force on the ferrule plate to cause the plurality of protrusions of the ferrule plate to contact a corresponding recess region of the manifold.

a lower ferrule plate that is positioned on the support plate and that defines a plurality of first protrusions 

a manifold that is positioned on the lower ferrule plate and that defines i a plurality of first recess regions within the manifold and ii a plurality of second recess regions within the manifold wherein each of the first recess regions is connected to a corresponding second recess region 

an upper ferrule plate that is positioned on the manifold and that defines a plurality of second protrusions wherein each second protrusion fits into a corresponding second recess region and wherein the upper ferrule plate has a plurality of second passages with each second passage traversing the height of the upper ferrule plate and through the second protrusions and wherein each first protrusion of the first ferrule plate fits into a corresponding first recess region so that each first passage of the lower ferrule plate is in communication with a corresponding second passage of the upper ferrule plate and wherein each of the first fluid bearing conduits is positioned within one of first passages and each of the second fluid bearing conduits is positioned within one of the second passages so that the proximal end of each first fluid bearing conduit abuts the distal end of a corresponding second fluid bearing conduit and

means for applying an axial force on the first and second ferrule plates to cause the plurality first protrusions to contact a corresponding first recess region and to cause the plurality second protrusions to contact a corresponding second recess region.

The connector is particularly suited for connecting two sets of capillaries but the connector device can also accommodate ferrules and vials. In use the connector device can be positioned on the surface of a microscale device so that the ports of the microscale device are in fluid communication with the connector.

The invention is directed to techniques for connecting two sets of capillaries together and for connecting capillaries and or other fluid conduits directly to inlet and or outlet ports of a microscale device. For convenience one set will be referred to as the inlet capillaries and the other set as the outlet capillaries. It is not intended that the structures and dimensions of the inlet and outlet capillaries be different. Preferred capillaries have circular inner diameters that range from 5 microns to 250 microns. Capillaries are available commercially from numerous sources including for example PolymicroTechnologies LLC Phoenix Ariz. .

The inventive interconnecting device is particularly suited for connecting inlet capillaries to outlet capillaries that are in turn connected to a microfluidic substrate or device. The outlet capillaries for example may be connected to sources of chemicals solvents and other fluids that are delivered to and used in the microfluidic device. Alternatively some or all of the outlet capillaries may be connected to waste containers other microfluidic devices and or other external bodies where fluids are sent.

The interconnect device is particularly suited for high pressure operations where the internal i.e. liquid fluid pressures within the capillaries are at least 500 psi. It has been demonstrated that the inventive interconnect device will withstand pressures of up to at least 5 000 psi.

Manifold also has a linear array of orifices that traverse the height of the manifold . As further shown in each orifice defines an upper recess region and a lower recess region . The recess regions preferably are cavities with conical shaped exterior surfaces however the cavities can have any external shape. The only limitation being that the contour of each interior surface substantially matches that of the exterior surface of the protrusions of the top and lower ferrule plates as described herein. As depicted in the diameter of the recess regions at their narrow ends are slightly less than the corresponding initial diameters of the protrusions . This angle difference allows compressive forces to be applied onto the tip of each capillary. In a preferred embodiment the inner surfaces of the recess regions define conical shaped cavities suitably contoured to receive corresponding conical shaped protrusions of upper ferrule plate and protrusions of and lower ferrule plate respectively. As shown in recess regions are connected by a narrow gap . The height of the gap preferably ranges from 50 m to 150 m. Manifold is preferably made of a rigid polymer material such as polyetherimide PEI sold under the tradename ULTEM by General Electric Co. polyether ether ketone and acetal e.g. DELRIN .

As shown in and upper ferrule plate which mates with manifold also has a linear array of apertures on its upper surface with each aperture defining a passage which traverses the height of the upper ferrule plate. A capillary is positioned in each passage. The upper ferrule plate has an underside with an array of conical shaped protrusions projecting from the underside such that each passage shown in as being occupied by capillary terminates at the end of a conical shaped protrusion .

The lower ferrule plate is essentially identical to the upper ferrule plate but its position is reversed. As shown in and lower ferrule plate which mates with manifold has a linear array of apertures on its lower surface with each aperture defining a passage which traverses the height of the lower ferrule plate . A capillary is positioned in each passage. The lower ferrule plate has a topside with an array of conical shaped protrusions projecting there from such that each passage terminates at the end of a conical shaped protrusion . It is preferred that the upper and lower ferrule plates be made of material that is both deformable under mechanical compression and that is easy to machine or mold.

While this embodiment of the connector device has been illustrated using inlet and outlet capillaries without ferrules the capillaries can also be attached preferably using one piece ferrules. Furthermore vials can also be employed and the connector device can be attached directly to a microscale device as further described herein.

Mechanical compression is applied to upper and lower ferrule plates by means of a rigid top interconnect plate which has an array of holes which are aligned to the array of apertures of the upper and lower ferrule plates . Threaded walls are drilled through the interconnect to provide passage for screws that serve to exert mechanical compression on the assembly.

In operation to connect a set of inlet capillaries to a corresponding set of outlet capillaries the distal ends of the internal capillaries are inserted through the passages of the lower ferrule plate and the channels of the manifold until the tips of the capillaries reach the lower portion of gap . Similarly a set of outlet capillaries are inserted through the holes of the top interconnect plate and through the passage of the upper ferrule plate until their tips reach the upper portion of gap . In this fashion each outlet capillary is aligned with a corresponding inlet capillary.

The screws are then tightened to assemble the interconnect device. As compressive forces are applied the conical shaped protrusions of the upper ferrule plate which are preferably made of a chemically inert material that readily deforms under mechanical compression are inserted into the mating cavities or channels of manifold . As a result the bottom surface of each conical shaped body deforms around the outer surface of each capillary thereby supporting and securing the outlet capillary. Deformation of the conical shaped bodies also provides a fluid tight seal. Similarly the conical shaped bodies of the lower ferrule plate which are also preferably made of a chemically inert material that readily deforms under mechanical compression are inserted into the mating cavities or channels of manifold . High pressure fluids can now flow through the two sets of capillaries.

The capillary interconnect device can also be employed to connect external capillaries and or other fluid conduits directly to the inlet and or outlet ports of a microscale device as illustrated in . As depicted in the device includes i a lower interconnect stiffening or support plate ii manifold iii ferrule plate and iv top interconnect plate . The support plate and top interconnect plate ensure uniform sealing of device as described further herein. Support plate is provided with threaded wells at both ends that receive screws that hold the various parts of the capillary interconnect device in proper orientation and that fasten the parts of the device together. Support plate has an internal cavity or slot that acts as a receptacle for a lower portion of manifold . Both support plate and top interconnect plate are preferably made of metal e.g. stainless steel or high strength ceramics.

As further shown in the lower portion of manifold fits into slot of support plate so that the lower planar surface of manifold rests on the surface of substrate e.g. microfluidic chip. The substrate includes a number of fluid channels with inlet and or outlet ports on the substrate surface. The manifold is preferably made of a polymer material that is rigid and that will adhere to glass which is the material of many conventional microscale devices. A preferred material is a polyetherimide sold under the tradename ULTEM by General Electric Co. Preferably manifold is bonded to substrate with a suitable adhesive.

As shown in the top surface of manifold has a linear array with recess regions which are preferably cavities with conical shaped i.e. tapered exterior surfaces . It is understood that the cavities can have any shape the only limitation being that the contour of each inner surface substantially matches that of the exterior surfaces of the protrusions from the ferrule plate as described herein. Preferably the two surface angles are not the same to permit enhanced deformation at the tip of the ferrule plate protrusions. As further shown in each conical shaped cavity is connected to channel sections that run to the bottom surface of the manifold. In this case the diameter of the upper portion of the channel is slightly larger than the remaining lower section .

As shown in and ferrule plate which mates with manifold also has a linear array of apertures on its upper surface with each aperture defining passages which traverse the height of the ferrule plate . The ferrule plate has an underside with an array of conical shaped protrusions projecting from the underside such that each passage terminates at the end of a protrusion . It is preferred that the ferrule plate be made of material that is both deformable under mechanical compression and that is easy to machine or mold. Suitable materials include for example polyether ether ketone high density polyethylene or polyamide. A preferred material is a solid abrasion resistant self lubricating polyamide available under the trade name VESPEL from Du Pont Corporation.

Mechanical compression is applied to ferrule plate by means of a rigid top interconnect plate which has an array of holes that are aligned to apertures of ferrule plate . Threaded walls are drilled through the interconnect plate to provide passage for screws that serve to exert mechanical compression on the assembly.

As illustrated in the interconnect device can be employed to deliver and or remove fluids from a microscale device . The device as assembled is preferably attached with adhesive on the upper surface of the microscale device which has inlet and outlet ports that are connected to internal channels . The dimensions and spacing of the ports match those of passages such that the lower surface of device can be attached e.g. bonded with epoxy directly onto the upper surface of the microscale device so that each passage of device will be aligned with an inlet and or outlet port of channel of microscale device . In this fashion no internal capillary is needed to connect device to microscale device that is passages are in direct fluid communication with channels . Capillary is depicted as being positioned within one of the passages .

In operation in one embodiment a set of external capillaries are connected by inserting their proximal ends through holes of the top interconnect plate and through apertures of the ferrule plate until their tips bottom out at the upper channel section of the manifold. In this fashion each external capillary serves as a source of fluid to the microscale device or as a conduit through which fluid is removed from the microscale device. As the screws are tightened and the compressive forces applied as shown in the conical shaped protrusions of ferrule plate which are preferably made of a chemically inert material that readily deforms under mechanical compression are inserted into the mating conical shaped cavities of manifold . As a result as shown in the bottom surface of each conical shaped protrusion deforms around the outer surface of the conical shaped cavities. Deformation of the conical shaped protrusions also provides a fluid tight seal around the capillary to the microscale device.

Each ferrule is machined from a block of material to fabricate a single integral piece ferrule. The bore is formed using conventional drills and threads are machined preferably on the exterior of the non taper portion of the elongated member. When using the ferrule no flange is needed. In addition a mating sleeve is not needed since the bore will collapse against the tube under compressive force. By mating sleeve is meant an extra tube that is inserted into the bore of the ferrule before the capillary tube that will be transferring a fluid of interest is inserted through the bore of the mating sleeve. Mating sleeves having an outer diameter that matches the inner diameter of prior art ferrules are used quite often but are not needed with the inventive ferrule. Machining permits exact tolerance to be maintained to improve fittings function. Because the ferrules are fabricated by machining that is they are not made by molding a wide range of materials including plastics ceramics and metals for example can be used depending on the expected operating conditions e.g. temperature pressure and type of fluids the ferrule will be exposed to. The ferrules are reusable and can be finger tightened to provide a seal that can withstand a minimum pressure of 5 000 psi.

The ferrule is particularly suited for high pressure operations to connect capillary tubes in microfluidic applications and therefore the ferrule is dimensioned accordingly. In this regard referring to the ferrule shown in the diameter of the distal portion of the bore is preferably 0.0145 in. 0.368 mm to 0.015 in. 0.38 mm and the diameter of the proximal portion of the bore is typically 0.018 in. 0.46 mm to 0.020 in. 0.51 mm .

While the embodiments illustrated show a plurality of capillary interconnections oriented linearly the device can be used for a single capillary interconnection and could be equally effective in a circular orientation to interconnect capillary bundles. Moreover the interconnect device can be used to connect at least two substrates together.

The reusable interconnecting device can be employed to provide fluid type communication between two sets of capillaries regardless of what the capillaries are ultimately connected. Typically at least one or more of the capillaries from one set will be connected to a substrate which refers to any microfluidic device that has an integrated network of microfluidic channels disposed therein. The particular design or configuration of the internal structure of the substrate is not critical. Such substrates are also referred as microfluidic or microscale wafers or chips.

The substrate includes microfluidic channels e.g. sealed enclosed groove depression and tube which are adapted to handle small volumes of fluid. Typically the channel is a tube channel or conduit having at least one subsection with at least one cross sectional dimension of between about 0.1 microns and 500 microns and typically less than 100 microns.

The substrate is preferably fabricated from glass quartz silicon or plastic by conventional techniques including LIGA an acronym for the German for lithography electroplating and molding deep x ray lithography silicon surface micromachining and lithography electric discharge machining and direct laser additive fabrication. In addition commercially available substrates can be modified with appropriate dimensioned inlet and or outlet ports as further described herein. The substrate may include reaction cells reservoirs and other structures that are interconnected by a network of microchannels and a series of micropumps. Such substrates are further described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 396 to Zanzucchi et al. which is incorporated herein.

Conventional mechanical pumps can be employed to transport liquid fluids through the capillaries although a preferred method employs a high pressure hydraulic system that has no moving parts for converting electric potential to hydraulic force and for manipulating fluids which are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 013 164 to Paul et al. 6 019 882 to Paul et al. 6 224 728 to Obomy et al. and 6 277 257 to Paul et al. and 6 290 909 to Paul et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

Although only preferred embodiments of the invention are specifically disclosed and described above it will be appreciated that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention.

