---

title: Method and apparatus for providing mobility for a voice over internet protocol service
abstract: A method and an apparatus for providing mobility for a Voice over Internet Protocol Service (VoIP) provided on packet networks are disclosed. For example, the method receives a register request from a user endpoint device and retrieves an Access Point-address parameter from a contact header in the register request. The method then determines a physical location of an access point device in accordance with the Access Point-address parameter and updates location information for the user endpoint device in accordance with the physical location of the access point device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08867526&OS=08867526&RS=08867526
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08867526
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070517
---
The present invention relates generally to communication networks and more particularly to a method for providing mobility for a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service provided on packet networks.

Internet services such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP services are becoming ubiquitous and more and more businesses and consumers are relying on their Internet connections for both data and voice communications needs. One of the advantages of obtaining services on an Internet Protocol IP based infrastructure is the flexibility of being able to access services from anywhere with an Internet connection. Namely customers are provided with more flexible options and can obtain the same service regardless of whether the call originated from a home a hotel a dormitory etc. When a customer requests for a service the customer s telephone number and device are associated with the service.

For example a VoIP customer may move the telephone adaptor to a new location and continue accessing services while away from home. However some services are provided based on the physical location of the caller. For example calls to obtain emergency service e.g. 911 service are routed to the closest center equipped to provide the emergency service. For example in North America when a customer dials 911 the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN uses the caller s telephone number to associate the call with a location address and provides the telephone number and location of the caller to the appropriate Public Safety Answering Point PSAP .

When 911 calls originate in a packet network such as a VoIP network the VoIP service provider is required by the Federal Communications Commission FCC to route the 911 call to the PSAP that serves the caller s present location. Further VoIP services providers are required to provide the telephone number and to make the physical location of the caller available to the proper PSAP. For example the VoIP service provider may obtain the service address when a customer subscribes to a VoIP service. However due to the flexible nature of the VoIP service the customer may at a later time move the customer endpoint device e.g. analog terminal adaptor softphone IP phone wireless phone etc. to another physical location and continue accessing services. Thus the address obtained during the service subscription may no longer be usable for calls that rely on the physical location of the caller e.g. E911 calls. FCC regulations require the VoIP service provider to either provide access to 911 services at the new location or restrict the customer s service at the new location.

In one embodiment the present invention discloses a method and apparatus for providing mobility for a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service provided over packet networks. For example the method receives a register request from a user endpoint device and retrieves an Access Point address parameter from a contact header in the register request. The method then determines a physical location of an access point device in accordance with the Access Point address parameter and updates location information for the user endpoint device in accordance with the physical location of the access point device.

In an alternate embodiment the method receives a register request from a user endpoint device where the register request is received by an access point device. The method determines whether or not an Access Point address parameter in a contact header of the register request is populated with an address of another access point device and populates the Access Point address parameter with an address of the access point device if the Access Point address parameter is not already populated.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

The present invention broadly discloses a method and apparatus for providing mobility for a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service e.g. as provided over IP Multi Media Subsystem IMS networks. Although the present invention is discussed below in the context of an IMS network the present invention is not so limited. Namely the present invention can be applied to all networks capable of supporting VoIP.

To better understand the present invention illustrates an example network e.g. a packet network such as a VoIP network related to the present invention. Exemplary packet networks include Internet protocol IP networks Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM networks frame relay networks and the like. An IP network is broadly defined as a network that uses Internet Protocol to exchange data packets. Thus a VoIP network is considered an IP network.

In one embodiment the VoIP network may comprise various types of customer endpoint devices connected via various types of access networks to a carrier e.g. a service provider VoIP core infrastructure over an Internet Protocol network. Broadly defined a VoIP network is a network that is capable of carrying voice signals as data packets over an IP network. The present invention is described below in the context of an illustrative VoIP network. Thus the present invention should not be interpreted as limited by this particular illustrative architecture.

The customer endpoint devices can be Time Division Multiplexing TDM based IP based or wireless such as cellular phones. For example TDM based customer endpoint devices and may comprise TDM phones or Private Branch Exchange PBX . IP based customer endpoint devices and may comprise IP phones or IP PBX. Wireless endpoint devices and may comprise cellular phones pocket PCs and the like that are capable of supporting protocols such as WiFi WiMax etc. It is important to not that cellular devices and may be dual mode e.g. operate in both Wireless Fidelity WiFi and Global System for Mobile GSM communications modes. In one embodiment the Terminal Adaptors TA and are used to provide necessary inter working functions between TDM customer endpoint devices such as analog phones and packet based access network technologies such as landline broadband access networks e.g. Digital Subscriber Line DSL and cable networks. TDM based customer endpoint devices may access VoIP services by using either a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or a landline broadband access network via the TA or . IP based customer endpoint devices may access VoIP services by using a Local Area Network LAN and or through the packet based access networks e.g. landline broadband access networks as shown in . Wireless endpoint devices may access VoIP services by using wireless LAN WAN access networks and or cellular networks and . The wireless access networks and LANs and and landline broadband access networks AND may be connected to the IMS through the service provider s IP network or any other 3party network. The IP network 3party network can then connect to the IMS through a border element or .

The PSTN networks and and the cellular networks and may be connected to the IMS through Media Gateway MGW Signaling Gateway SGW and Media Gateway Controller MGCF network devices and . The network devices and are devices with a combination of Media Gateway MGW Signaling Gateway SGW and Media Gateway Controller MGCF functionalities. For example the CSCF communicates with MGCF using SIP for call session control. The MGCF uses the international standard for media gateway control H.248 also known as MEGACO client server protocol to control MGW. MGCF may use Signal Transport SIGTRAN MTP 3 User Adaptation Layer M3UA or vendor proprietary Application Programming Interface API to control SGW. SGW is responsible for call signaling conversion between VoIP SIP and SS7 based signaling in PSTN e.g. Integrated Services Digital Network User Part also referred to as ISUP and in cellular networks e.g. Customized Applications for Mobile networks Enhanced Logic referred to as CAMEL CAMEL Application Part referred to as CAP etc. . MGW is responsible for media format conversion between VoIP Real time Transport Protocol based and TDM in PSTN and Cellular networks .

The access networks for wired devices can be either TDM or packet based. A TDM PSTN or is used to support TDM customer endpoint devices connected via traditional phone lines. A packet based access network such as Frame Relay ATM Ethernet or IP is used to support IP based customer endpoint devices via a customer LAN or over a landline broadband access network such as DSL and . A packet based access network or such as the landline broadband access network when used together with the TA or is used to support TDM based customer endpoint devices. The access networks for wireless devices and can be Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax Wireless Local Area Networks WLAN or Wireless Fidelity WiFi . The access networks for cellular devices and can be cellular networks and .

In one embodiment the core VoIP infrastructure is implemented in compliance with 3GPP IMS standard and comprises several key VoIP components such as the Border Elements BEs and the Call Session Control Function CSCF VoIP related Application Servers AS Media Server MS and Media Gateway MGW Signaling Gateway SGW and Media Gateway Controller MGCF network devices and . The Border Elements also known as session border controllers provide a secure traffic boundary for the VoIP service provider s network infrastructure. The access provider may expose its address addresses for Border Elements to user devices and hide the internal addresses of the VoIP service provider s network. The Access Session Border Controller is a container function that encompasses the 3GPP TISPAN IMS signaling functions Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF Interconnect Border Control Function IBCF and media functions Access Border Gateway Function A BGF Interconnect Border Gateway Function I BGF . The CSCF resides within the IMS infrastructure and is connected to the BEs and Media Gateway Controller MGCF using the Session Initiation Protocol SIP over the underlying IP based core network . The CSCF performs network wide call control related functions as well as interacts with the appropriate application and media servers when necessary. The CSCF functions as a combination of a SIP proxy server and a SIP registrar and is a signaling endpoint for all call legs between all BEs and the CSCF. The CSCF may need to interact with various Application Servers AS in order to complete a call that requires certain service specific features e.g. call forwarding.

For calls that originate or terminate in a different carrier they can be handled through the PSTN and or the Partner IP Carrier interconnections. For originating or terminating TDM calls they can be handled via existing PSTN interconnections to the other carrier. For originating or terminating VoIP calls they can be handled via the Partner IP carrier interface to the other carrier.

In order to illustrate how the different components operate to support a VoIP call the following call scenario is used to illustrate how a VoIP call is setup between two customer endpoints. A customer using IP device at location A places a call to another customer at location Z using TDM device . During the call setup a setup signaling message is sent from IP device through the LAN to BE . BE will then send a setup signaling message such as a SIP INVITE message if SIP is used to CSCF . CSCF forwards SIP messages to the necessary application server to allow application servers to apply any additional feature processes that may be used to complete this call. In one embodiment the Application Server AS functions as a back to back user agent. If BE needs to be involved in completing the call CSCF sends another call setup message such as a SIP INVITE message if SIP is used to BE . Upon receiving the call setup message BE forwards the call setup message via broadband network to TA . TA then identifies the appropriate TDM device and rings that device. Once the call is accepted at location Z by the called party a call acknowledgement signaling message such as a SIP OK response message if SIP is used is sent in the reverse direction back to the CSCF . After the CSCF receives the call acknowledgement message it will then send a call acknowledgement signaling message such as a SIP OK response message if SIP is used toward the calling party. In addition the CSCF also provides the necessary information of the call to both BE and BE so that the media streams for call session exchange can proceed directly between BE and BE . The call signaling path and the call media path are illustratively shown in . Note that the call signaling path and the call media path through the IMS network are different because once a call has been setup between two endpoint devices the CSCF does not need to be in the data path for actual direct data exchange.

Media Servers MS are special servers that may handle and terminate media streams and to provide services such as announcements bridges trans coding and Interactive Voice Response IVR messages for VoIP service applications. The media servers may also interact with customers for media session management to accomplish tasks such as process requests.

Note that a customer in location A using any endpoint device type with its associated access network type can communicate with another customer in location Z using any endpoint device type with its associated network type as well. For instance a customer at location A using IP customer endpoint device with packet based access network can call another customer at location Z using TDM endpoint device with PSTN access network . The MGW SGW and MGCF network devices and are responsible for the necessary signaling protocol translation e.g. SS7 to and from SIP and media format conversion such as TDM voice format to and from IP based packet voice format.

The above network is described to provide an illustrative environment in which packets are transported on packet networks such as VoIP networks. One of the advantages of obtaining services on an Internet Protocol IP based infrastructure is the flexibility of being able to access services from anywhere with an Internet connection. When a customer requests a service the service provider associates the request with the customer s telephone number and device e.g. a terminal adaptor . For example when a customer initiates a call the telephone service provider associates the received request with the telephone number assigned to the customer. One of the concerns customers have about relying on the IP based services for all voice and data services is the fact that some services need to be delivered based on the physical location of the user but the call may be originated from any location with an Internet access. For example calls for emergency services e.g. to a fire department a police station etc. are intended to be received by a Public Safety Answering Point PSAP that serves the caller s present location. PSAP serving area boundaries are defined by local 911 authorities e.g. city and county governments etc. . In order to clearly illustrate the teachings of the current invention the following terminologies will first be described 

A 911 call refers to a telephone call placed for the purpose of requesting emergency services. The public switched telephone network has been enabled to recognize specific telephone numbers as a call for emergency services. The universal emergency telephone number used in North America is 911. The emergency call is delivered based on geographical location of the caller to a public safety answering point as defined below.

A 911 tandem refers to a switch that is used to connect telephone switching centers to the various public safety answering points. For example when a wireless caller dials 911 the call is routed to a mobile switching center. The mobile switching center is connected to the 911 tandem that determines the public safety answering point that can best service the call and then routes the call accordingly.

Public Safety Answering Point PSAP refers to a location where emergency calls are received and distributed to the appropriate emergency services such as the fire department ambulance service police dispatch locations etc. The services that belong in a particular PSAP vary by community. The Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier ILEC manages the telephone equipment such as the 911 tandem that routes the call to the appropriate public safety answering point.

Enhanced 911 E911 refers to an enhancement of technology that routes emergency calls i.e. 911 calls to the PSAP that has been designated to serve the caller s location and delivers the caller s call back number Automatic Number Identification ANI and location Automatic Location Identification ALI .

Enhanced 911 calls are delivered over a dedicated E911 network to a Public Safety Answering Point PSAP . The dedicated E911 network is contained within the traditional PSTN network. It should be noted that there will be PSAP that supports IP in the future. The calls are delivered based on the geographical location of the caller to the PSAP designated to serve that location. Regardless of the network used to initiate the 911 call the 911 calls are eventually sent to the PSAP.

In one embodiment a VoIP service provider may store a service address for a customer in a database when the customer initially subscribes to the VoIP service. When the customer initiates a 911 call from the service address the VoIP service provider identifies the caller retrieves the caller s phone number and forwards the phone number to the 911 tandem that is located in the PSTN network. The VoIP service provider may also send an index that may be used to locate the customer s service address. The local exchange carrier with the PSTN network delivers the information from the 911 tandem to the proper PSAP. The call and the telephone number flow from the VoIP service provider towards the public safety answering point. The PSAP may use the index and the phone number to retrieve the caller s address.

In order to ensure that customers of VoIP service are able to access emergency services the FCC mandates VoIP services to be provided only at a location where E911 calls are supported E911 services . For example service providers may restrict access to the VoIP service only to the known service address of a customer. For example if a customer has a VoIP service at home a VoIP operator may suspend the customer s access to the service when he she attempts to access service from another location. For example if a customer attempts to access the VoIP service from another location and the service provider determines that the customer may have moved then the service provider may suspend access to the VoIP service. The customer may then contact the VoIP service provider to provide a new service address. However this process requires the customer to provide new service address whenever the customer endpoint device is moved. Thus the advantage of receiving services over an IP based network is diminished by the inconvenience of having to constantly provide the service provider with a new address when a user is traveling. For example a consultant may have a home office as the service address but may be accessing services mostly away from home. Furthermore a customer may not be permanently changing his her address e.g. the customer may temporarily be located at a hotel an airport a temporary office etc.

The current invention discloses a method and apparatus for providing mobility for a VoIP service using an Access Point address AP addr parameter. In one embodiment the AP addr parameter of the current invention is located in a contact header of a register request as further described below. For example the contact header contains a list of Universal Resource Locators URLs to be used to redirect future requests by routers that have application layer gateway functionality.

In one embodiment a register request refers to a request sent by user endpoint devices to a special type of user agent server called a registrar. A register request can be sent in support of a SIP discovery capability to enable sessions among users. More specifically the discovery capability refers to a process of determining where to send session requests based on knowledge of the location of a user e.g. an intended destination and sending the request towards the destination. In order to perform discovery SIP network elements may consult an abstract service called a location service. The location service provides address bindings for a domain. The address bindings map an incoming SIP message to one or more Uniform Resource Identifiers URI closest to the desired destination. The location service provides the address bindings based on data gathered when the users register to receive services via the registrars. The registration refers to a user sending a register request to a registrar. A registrar operates as a front end server to the location service that receives register requests from the users and places the information it receives in those requests into a location service for one or more domains it handles.

The current invention first implements access point devices with capability to populate an Access Point address AP addr parameter. For example the AP addr parameter is a parameter located in a contact header of a register request with its value set as an address e.g. the public Internet Protocol IP address of an access point device. It should be noted that the present invention is not limited to the use of the IP address of the access point device. Namely any other addressing scheme that will allow proper identification of the physical location of the access point device is within the scope of the present invention.

In turn the VoIP service provider is then able to record the physical locations of the access point devices and their public IP addresses in a database. For example the service provider may maintain the IP addresses and the physical locations of the access point devices. For example the IP addresses and the physical locations of hotspots for a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN may be recorded. In one embodiment the access network may be managed by another service provider. If the access network is managed by another service provider then the IP addresses and the physical locations of access point devices can be obtained by the VoIP service provider from the access service provider. In one embodiment the current invention also records access point identifiers and various update data e.g. a DNS name a serial number a time stamp of the last update a name of an administrator performing the update etc. Table 1 provides an example of a database table for storing location data for network access points. The access point s serial number or DNS name IP address for a specific access point interface validated street address record of last update and a record of administrator that made the update may be stored in the table.

In one embodiment when a user endpoint device is powered up and tries to connect to the VoIP provider network the user sends a VoIP register request via a customer or user endpoint device. The register request is received by an access point device that is closest to the customer endpoint device and it determines whether or not an AP addr parameter is already provided in the contact header of the register request. If the AP addr parameter does not exist in the contact header of the register request then the access point device populates the AP addr parameter in the contact header of the register request with its own public IP address. In turn subsequent access point devices that may handle the register request note that the AP addr parameter in the contact header has already been provided by the access point device closest to the user endpoint device originating the register request. As such subsequent access point devices may simply forward the register request without altering the content of the AP addr parameter.

In one embodiment the current invention enables the VoIP service provider to receive a register request from a user endpoint device and retrieve the AP addr parameter from the contact header in the register request. The value of the AP addr parameter is then used to identify the access point device closest to the user who initiated the register request. For example a VoIP user with a laptop computer may initiate a register request while physically located near a wireless access point device in the VoIP service provider s location database e.g. a hotspot for a WLAN . The AP addr parameter may then contain the public IP address of the wireless access point device closest to the user initiating the register request. The registrar may retrieve the value of the AP addr parameter to identify the access point device closest to the user. More specifically the physical location of the access point device corresponding to the public IP address extracted from the AP addr parameter is determined from the location database. The service provider may then use the physical location of the access point device as retrieved from the location database to update the location information for the user. For example if the physical location is different from the location used in a previous VoIP session the service provider may update a Location Information Server LIS database for the user. It should be noted that the LIS database can be implemented as a part of the National Emergency Number Association NENA i2 architecture. The updated LIS database may be utilized for providing services that are based on physical location of the user e.g. E911 services. In this manner the service provider may provide E911 service at the current physical location of the user without having to require the customer to change his her service address.

The IMS core network is also connected to a PSTN access network via an MGW SGW and MGCF network device . The IMS core is capable of routing 911 calls to a 911 tandem switch via MGW SGW and MGCF network device . In one embodiment the 911 tandem switch is connected to a plurality of Public Safety Answering Points PSAPs and . In one embodiment the PSAP can be broadly interpreted as a customer endpoint device. The 911 tandem switch forwards each 911 call to the closest public safety answering point based on the physical location of the caller. The public safety answering points and are in turn connected to various emergency service providers and . Each community will determine the emergency services such as the local police department ambulance service fire department and the like to be connected to the PSAP. Thus a user using an endpoint device or is able to originate an emergency call that will be routed to a proper PSAP that will be able to service the emergency call.

In one embodiment the VoIP service provider enables a customer to access the VoIP application server and subscribe to a VoIP service with mobility. For example the VoIP service provider may record the public IP addresses and physical location of the access point devices in the location database . When the customer endpoint device is in the vicinity of an access point device the customer endpoint device is able to access services through the access point device . For example a wireless connection can be made between the access point device and the customer endpoint device . Similarly when the customer endpoint device is in the vicinity of the access point device a wireless connection can be made between the access point device and the customer endpoint device

For example the customer endpoint device may send a register request to the registrar through the access point device . It should be noted that the access point device can be any device that can be assigned an IP address e.g. a router a switch and the like. The access point device will populate the AP addr parameter with its own public IP address and forwards the register request to the registrar . The registrar determines the value of the AP addr parameter in the register request and retrieves the physical location of the access point device corresponding to the IP address from the AP addr parameter . The registrar then updates the customer information in the location information server . The service provider is then able to provide the VoIP service to the customer at the current physical location. If the customer initiates an E911 call using the customer endpoint device then the call and the updated information from the location information server are forwarded to the tandem switch in the PSTN network .

In step method receives a register request from a user endpoint device. For example a SIP register request with a contact header containing an IP address of an access point device is received.

In step method performs standard network address translation at Layers 2 and 3 and performs application layer gateway functions in the received register message. The method then proceeds to step .

In step method determines whether or not the AP addr parameter in the received register request is already populated with an IP address of an access point device. For example the method determines whether or not the AP addr parameter contains an IP address for an access point device. If the AP addr parameter is already populated with an IP address of an access point device then the method proceeds to step . Otherwise the method proceeds to step .

In step method populates the AP addr parameter of the register request with its own public IP address. The method then proceeds to step .

In step method forwards the register request towards the registrar in the VoIP network. For example the access point device forwards the register request having an IP address in the AP addr parameter. The method then proceeds to step .

Note that if the access point device is not the access point device closest to the user it would find that the AP addr parameter has already been populated by the access point device closest to the user. Namely subsequent access point devices will not alter the value of the AP addr parameter.

In step method performs standard request handling functions. For example the method waits for a response to the register request.

In step method receives a final response and forwards the response to the user end device. For example the method may receive a 200 OK and forwards the response towards the user. The method then proceeds to step to end processing the current request or to step to continue receiving requests. Method ends in step .

In step method receives a register request from a user endpoint device. For example a customer moves his her endpoint device to a location near an access point device and originates a register request from said location. The register request is then forwarded towards a registrar by the access point device in the vicinity of the customer endpoint device.

In step method performs standard registration and authentication functions. For example the method may perform authentication such as processing a password a user ID etc. and determines the service or type of service for the customer.

In step method determines whether or not the authentication was successful. If the authentication fails the method proceeds to step to return an error message to the user. Otherwise the method proceeds to step .

In step method determines whether or not the received register request includes an AP addr. For example the value of the AP addr may be a default value or an IP number. If the received request includes an AP addr parameter the method proceeds to step . Otherwise the method proceeds to step .

In step method determines whether or not the user endpoint device is registering from a known address. For example the customer may be registering from the regular service address of record. If the user endpoint device is registering from the known address then the method proceeds to step to return a success message. Otherwise the method proceeds to step .

In step method instructs the user of the need to provide his her current physical address to access the VoIP service e.g. by calling a customer service number . The method then proceeds to step to place the user in a suspend mode and to allow the user to interact with service provider for updating his her address.

In step method retrieves the value of the AP addr parameter from the contact header of the register request. For example the method retrieves an IP address from the AP addr parameter.

In step method determines the physical address of the access point device whose public IP address corresponds to the value of the AP addr parameter in the register request. For example the method searches in a location database of physical addresses of access point devices for the access point device corresponding to the IP address retrieved from the AP addr parameter.

In step method determines whether or not a physical address of an access point device is found. For example the IP number may be valid but the VoIP service provider may not have the physical address in its record. If the physical address is not found then the method proceeds to step to place the user in a suspend mode and to allow the user to interact with service provider for updating his her address. Otherwise the method proceeds to step .

In step method compares the physical address of the access point device with the previous known address for the user. For example the previous VoIP session may have been from the same physical location.

In step method determines whether or not the physical address of the access point device is the same as the previous address for the registering user. If the address is the same as the previous address then the method proceeds to step to return a success message. Otherwise the method proceeds to step .

In step method updates a Location Information Server LIS database for the registering user endpoint device. For example the physical address of the access point device retrieved from a location database is used to update the current address for a user registering at a new location.

In step method determines whether or not the update was successful. If the update of the LIS database is performed successfully then the method proceeds to step . Otherwise the method proceeds to step to place the user in a suspend mode and to allow the user to interact with service provider for updating his her address.

In step method returns a success message to the user. For example the method returns a SIP OK message to the user endpoint device. The VoIP service is then provided at the current location of the user. The method then proceeds to step to end processing the current register request or to step to continue receiving other requests.

In step method returns an error message e.g. a SIP error response. The method then proceeds to step to end processing the current register request or to step to continue receiving other requests.

In step method places the user in a suspend mode and allows the user to interact with service provider for updating his her address. For example the method may provide a link to an operator or a website. The method then proceeds to step to return success message.

It should be noted that although not specifically specified one or more steps of methods and may include a storing displaying and or outputting step as required for a particular application. In other words any data records fields and or intermediate results discussed in the method can be stored displayed and or outputted to another device as required for a particular application. Furthermore steps or blocks in and that recite a determining operation or involve a decision do not necessarily require that both branches of the determining operation be practiced. In other words one of the branches of the determining operation can be deemed as an optional step.

It should be noted that the present invention can be implemented in software and or in a combination of software and hardware e.g. using application specific integrated circuits ASIC a general purpose computer or any other hardware equivalents. In one embodiment the present module or process for providing mobility for Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP services can be loaded into memory and executed by processor to implement the functions as discussed above. As such the present method for providing mobility for Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP services including associated data structures of the present invention can be stored on a computer readable medium or carrier e.g. RAM memory magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

