---

title: Differential pricing based on social network standing
abstract: A system and/or method that effectuates and facilitates the generation and provision of differential pricing policies based at least in part on the relative social network standing that a seller might have with a potential purchaser are provided. The system includes a component that receives data associated with a seller, a good, or a service that the seller lists for sale or barter in an online market place. The component determines, based at least in part on the particular good or service, a differential pricing policy that can be associated therewith. The differential pricing policy can then be utilized to selectively provide differentiated prices to a purchaser based on a relative social network standing that can be established between the purchaser and the seller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583564&OS=08583564&RS=08583564
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08583564
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070326
---
Computing and network technologies have transformed many aspects of everyday life. Computers have become household staples rather than luxuries educational tools and or entertainment centers and provide individuals and corporations with tools to manage and forecast finances control operations such as heating cooling lighting and security and store records and images in a permanent and reliable medium. Networking technologies like the Internet provide individuals virtually unlimited access to remote systems information and associated applications.

As computing and network technologies have evolved and have become more robust secure and reliable more consumers wholesalers retailers entrepreneurs educational institutions and the like are shifting paradigms and are employing the Internet to perform business rather than traditional means. For example today consumers can access their bank accounts on line e.g. via the Internet and can perform an ever growing number of banking transactions such as balance inquiries fund transfers bill payments and the like.

Typically an on line session can include individuals interfacing with client applications e.g. web services to interact with a database server that stores information in a database accessible to client applications. For instance a stock market web site can provide users with tools to retrieve stock quotes and purchase stock. Users can enter stock symbols and request stock quotes by performing mouse clicks to activate a query. Client applications can then query databases containing stock information and return appropriate stock quotes. Users based on returned stock quote information can thereafter purchase or sell stocks by supplying suitable information wherein submitting buy or sell orders initiate database queries to return current pricing information and order status.

Based on the ever increasing use of computers and or the Internet numerous transactions related to goods services and or commerce have become commonplace. Yet with the vast possibilities of the Internet a plethora of concerns and or suspicions can arise for a user and or client contemplating purchase of an item good service etc. over the Internet. In particular the level of trust or lack thereof related to a seller and or buyer involved in a transaction is a major concern in light of the various complications that can arise in completing a transaction. Moreover these Internet consumers and or suppliers may need additional reassurance that ensures a potential transaction is to be completed based on a preference priority and or importance.

Buying and selling merchandise and services via the Internet has become more widely accepted and more secure in recent years. Aside from established merchants and commercial retailers individuals have found a marketplace online for shopping and or peddling their new or used merchandise as well as seeking and or offering a variety of services. For example many employers seeking employees and those seeking employment have turned to the Internet for opportunities. Generally speaking this marketplace can be referred to as an online classified listing and or an online market place and many web sites specializing in this type of commerce currently exist. Most notably eBay and Craig s List are two of the more popular sites. Nevertheless national sites such as eBay lack the level of personalization that may be more closely associated with some more parochial sites such as Craig s List. For example eBay has traditionally focused on the ability to hold auctions across the country while Craig s List has currently adopted a message board type of framework that has a more local feel but limits users to search only a particular metropolitan area. On either site users are left wanting more. The national site can be too large scale and imposing for new or infrequent users and the more local based site too restrictive in terms of scope and ability to attract buyers and sellers.

Currently there are no facilities to incorporate differential pricing schemes based on social standing in social networks into pricing frameworks. Rather there only exist facilities to provide pricing schemes that allow individuals to set a single price applicable to all potential purchasers. In particular there are no facilities that accommodate the relative affinity that a potential purchaser might have with the individual to provide differential pricing based on their relative social standing within the social network.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The claimed subject matter in one aspect provides mechanisms and methodologies to allow individuals to decide upon a percentage or fixed discount they might wish to give to buyers who are either part of their social network e.g. friends social acquaintances family or coworkers or that have a high reputation or degree of trust within a marketplace e.g. on line classifieds on line social marketplace and the like . For example an individual can decide to sell his her guitar 450 to the general public but may choose to give his her friends and family a 10 discount off the listed price. Accordingly when the individual s friends and family search the marketplace and see the guitar listed in the marketplace they will notice that a special discount rate price is listed for them.

In accordance with an aspect of the claimed subject matter a pricing component can receive data associated with a user goods and or services the user may wish to list for sale or barter on an online market place. The pricing component upon receipt of such information can determine based at least in part on the goods and or services supplied by the user a differential pricing policy that can be associated with the goods and or services such that potential purchasers are selectively provided differentiated prices based at least in part on their relative social network standing with respect to the user.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed and claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be employed and is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject matter as claimed is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

Unlike conventional marketplaces the systems and methods described herein provide an online marketplace that takes advantage of an individual s social groups networks communities and or connections to facilitate the marketplace experience for the benefit of all parties in the transaction e.g. seller and buyer etc. . Whether buying or selling a good or service locating employees or and employer the social marketplace creates more trusted filtered views of items or services posted in the online social market place. Moreover the online social marketplace can leverage existing communications systems such as instant messaging and email systems to optimize more efficient communication between users.

Interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication pathways etc. to integrate the various components included in system into virtually any operating system and or database system and or with one another. Additionally interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication modalities etc. that provide for interaction with various components that can comprise system and or any other component external and or internal data and the like associated with system .

Pricing component in a further aspect of the claimed subject matter can establish and or generate differential pricing based at least in part on a social network standing affinity and or trust level that can exist between multiple actors in the social network and more particularly that are parties to an online market place transaction that can be carried out within the social network. Further pricing component can establish and or generate differential pricing based at least in part on online activity and or previous online transactions wherein such online transactions can comprise any suitable transaction that includes at least a portion of the transaction takes place online. For example a transaction can originate online and can then be completed at a physical site and or location away from the online activity e.g. industrial warehouse sport arena and the like . For example a first party can decide that he wishes to sell his extra tickets to a basketball game accordingly the first party can offer these items for sale and or barter on the online market place. A second party on seeing the tickets for sale can after appropriate negotiations between the first and second parties indicate to the first party that he wishes to purchase the proffered tickets at the set price but actual transfer of the tickets from the first party to the second party and exchange of money from the second party to the first party might take place at the basketball arena rather than the online marketplace. Additionally since there can be numerous segments related to a transaction it is to be understood that any and all such segments can be included within the purview of the single overall transaction.

Moreover pricing component can generate differential pricing based at least in part on a reputation assessment that can relate to at least one user client and or entity involved in the transaction. In other words the user client and or entity can be aware of a disparate user client and or entity involved in the transaction such that the reputation of the disparate user client and or entity within the social network can be assessed to provide an insight that can be used to generate appropriate differential pricing.

Further pricing component can generate differential pricing based on for example geographical location of the parties to the transaction or the location of the goods and or services that are the subject of the transaction. For example George who lives in New York City may wish to sell his vintage s electric guitar for 250.00 but in order to avoid incurring the additional expense of insuring and shipping the guitar across the country to San Francisco for example may provide an appropriate discount to members of his social network that reside in the vicinity of New York City. As a further illustration XYZ Inc. a multinational corporation may wish to due to economic expedience or to facilitate arbitrage rather than shipping a load of iron ore recently acquired in Australia to the United States to dispose of iron ore on the online market place. Accordingly XYZ Inc. can indicate that a discount will be provided to buyers in the online market place that are located in Australia or are willing to undertake shipment from Australia in addition to any discount that XYZ Inc. may typically provide buyers associated with the online market place.

In order to facilitate its aims pricing component in accordance with one illustrative aspect can receive from interface data from a user client and or entity regarding the good and or service on offer. Data regarding the goods and or services can include the type of good and or service the type of good and or the kind of service the dimensions of the good and or conditions to be placed on the service and other pertinent aspects associated with the good and or service on offer. Other information that can also be supplied to pricing component by interface can include but is not limited to online activity previous online transactions activity of across a disparate network activity across a network credit card verification membership duration of membership communication associated with a network buddy lists contacts questions answered questions posited response time for questions blog data blog entries endorsements items bought items sold products on the network information gleaned from a disparate website information gleaned from a disparate network ratings from a web site user profiles user information from a web site a positive factor from another service network a credit score geographical locations a donation to charity etc. In other words pricing component can receive any and all information data necessary to ascertain and thereafter generate a differential pricing scheme.

In a further aspect of the claimed subject matter pricing component can also obtain information from a user client and or entity regarding a suggested asking price e.g. a price that the user client and or entity may be willing to sell the item service on offer . Occasionally for reasons of sentimentality or due to lack of knowledge regarding the marketplace for a particular good service users clients and or entities may unwittingly over inflate their asking price e.g. set an asking price that is economically untenable a price the market will not bear . Where users clients and or entities set an asking price that is economically untenable and or is unreasonable pricing component can supply or suggest a range of suggested prices that the current market might reasonably bear. For example if the user client and or entity were selling an automobile pricing component can via interface retrieve a blue book value for the automobile at issue. Additionally staying in the illustrative automotive context pricing component can further obtain one or more auction price from recent automotive auctions e.g. from online listings from established auction houses from online auction sites etc. from online car dealership sites etc. in order to provide an appropriate range of suggested asking price. Further pricing component can assay and provide suggestions regarding a reasonable asking price based on the rarity and or age of the good and or specialty service on offer e.g. works of fine art first edition books vintage musical instruments antique cars vintage wines artesian well boring services and the like .

In a further illustrative aspect pricing component can request via interface that the user client and or entity supplier range of discounts that might be acceptable for various trust affinity social network levels. For example a user may wish to sell his collection of English Gold Sovereigns at a particular set price but nevertheless is amenable to accepting a reduced price from certain individuals. For instance the user may be willing to accept a reduced price from his uncle and an even lesser price from his twin brothers and a further discounted price from his parents. Moreover because the user recognizes that interest in his collection may be particularly high from potential purchasers in the United Kingdom the user can stipulate that an augmented price in excess of a set price will be required from those purchasers located in the United Kingdom. In this regard pricing component upon receiving the user supplied discounts can if necessary provide or suggest a range of more reasonable and probably more realistic discounts based on a number of factors such as for example geographical locations. For instance prices of goods can vary between different geographical markets e.g. down filled parkas may be popular in Des Moines Iowa but may not necessarily be as popular in Houston Tex. . Accordingly pricing component can indicate to a user greater or lesser discounts may be necessary to provide suitable incentives to certain users in the social network. In this manner pricing component can establish and maintain the differential pricing structure based on social network standing and more particularly based on established trust levels geographic locations shared interests familial affinities and the like.

Trust component can categorize determine and or assign a trust level to one or more users based on the one or more users associations within one or more online communities geographical area of residence personal affinities e.g. common interests familial ties etc. between members of the community. The trust level of each user facilitates determining what content is displayed or hidden from them. Further trust component can categorize determine and or assign a trust level to users based at least in part on other factors such as familial affinity geographic location standing within the online community and or marketplace and the like.

Many different frameworks may be possible to establish or create trust levels. One approach involves employing users circles of trust whereby each concentric circle indicates a different relationship with those included therein and thus perhaps a different trust the shared between the user and those in that particular circle. Presumably the outer circles are further from the user and thus the amount of trust between the user and the circles of occupants is commensurately lower. Conversely the inner circles bear a closer relationship with the user and hence are deemed to be more trusted by the user.

A further approach that can be employed by trust component can include constructing social network diagrams that can map relationships in terms of nodes and ties wherein nodes indicate individual actors groups of actors and or entities within the social network and ties indicate relationships between the actors groups of actors and or entities. There can be many kinds of ties between the nodes but in its simplest form a social network diagram is a map of all relevant ties between the nodes under observation and as such can be utilized to establish or create trust levels.

A boosting system not shown can also be employed in conjunction with trust component to further boost or diminish an entity s level of trust. The boosting system can either promote the user and or the group to which the user may belong to a higher level of trust or demote the user and or the group as a whole to a lower level of trust. Moreover boosting system can also boost or diminish levels of trust based on geographical locations of particular users. For instance users A and B might ordinarily exist in close proximity to one another s innermost circle of trust for most purposes despite being geographically remote from one another. However this level of trust may be temporarily and dynamically diminished by the boosting system where A decides that the boat that she is selling will be of no interest to B given that he currently resides in a location where ownership of a boat is impractical. Similarly where B decides that he wishes to sell the life preservers that he acquired on his last visit to A boosting system can automatically enhance user A s trust level to indicate that A might have a more than passing interest in purchasing the life preservers for her boat.

Ranking component can receive information from trust component and automatically assign and rank appropriate pricing points based at least in part on information supplied by trust component and other information that may have been conveyed to pricing component such as for example online activity previous online transactions activity of across a disparate network activity across a network credit card verification membership duration of membership communication associated with a network buddy lists contacts questions answered questions posited response time for questions blog data blog entries endorsements items bought items sold products on the network information gleaned from a disparate website information gleaned from a disparate network ratings from a web site user profiles user information from a web site a positive factor from another service network a credit score a donation to charity etc. Ranking component can thus use this information to provide a suitable ranking necessary to determine an appropriate differential pricing scheme that can be used by pricing component .

It is to be appreciated that store can be for example by the volatile memory or non volatile memory or can include both volatile and non volatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can act as external cache memory. By way of illustration rather than limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM . Store of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In addition it is to be appreciated that store can be a server a database a hard drive and the like.

It is to be understood that intelligence component can provide for reasoning about or infer states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x x x x xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian Networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

Pricing component can further employ a presentation component that can provide various types of user interface to facilitate interaction between a user and any component coupled to pricing component . As depicted presentation component is a separate entity that can be utilized with pricing component . However it is to be appreciated that presentation component and or other similar view components can be incorporated into pricing component and or a standalone unit. Presentation component can provide one or more graphical user interface command line interface and the like. For example a graphical user interface can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present the results of such. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialog boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes popup menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. For example the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled and or incorporated into pricing component .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse roller ball keypad keyboard pen and or voice activation for example. Typically the mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example nearly highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can then provide suitable information such as alphanumeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a graphical user interface and or application programming interface API . In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of and . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers.

The claimed subject matter can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more components. Generally program modules can include routines programs objects data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined and or distributed as desired in various aspects.

The claimed subject matter can be implemented via object oriented programming techniques. For example each component of the system can be an object in a software routine or a component within an object. Object oriented programming shifts the emphasis of software development away from function decomposition and towards the recognition of units of software called objects which encapsulate both data and functions. Object Oriented Programming OOP objects are software entities comprising data structures and operations on data. Together these elements enable objects to model virtually any real world entity in terms of its characteristics represented by its data elements and its behavior represented by its data manipulation functions. In this way objects can model concrete things like people and computers and they can model abstract concepts like numbers or geometrical concepts.

The benefit of object technology arises out of three basic principles encapsulation polymorphism and inheritance. Objects hide or encapsulate the internal structure of their data and the algorithms by which their functions work. Instead of exposing these implementation details objects present interfaces that represent their abstractions cleanly with no extraneous information. Polymorphism takes encapsulation one step further the idea being many shapes one interface. A software component can make a request of another component without knowing exactly what that component is. The component that receives the request interprets it and figures out according to its variables and data how to execute the request. The third principle is inheritance which allows developers to reuse pre existing design and code. This capability allows developers to avoid creating software from scratch. Rather through inheritance developers derive subclasses that inherit behaviors that the developer then customizes to meet particular needs.

In particular an object includes and is characterized by a set of data e.g. attributes and a set of operations e.g. methods that can operate on the data. Generally an object s data is ideally changed only through the operation of the object s methods. Methods in an object are invoked by passing a message to the object e.g. message passing . The message specifies a method name and an argument list. When the object receives the message code associated with the named method is executed with the formal parameters of the method bound to the corresponding values in the argument list. Methods and message passing in OOP are analogous to procedures and procedure calls in procedure oriented software environments.

However while procedures operate to modify and return passed parameters methods operate to modify the internal state of the associated objects by modifying the data contained therein . The combination of data and methods in objects is called encapsulation. Encapsulation provides for the state of an object to only be changed by well defined methods associated with the object. When the behavior of an object is confined to such well defined locations and interfaces changes e.g. code modifications in the object will have minimal impact on the other objects and elements in the system.

Each object is an instance of some class. A class includes a set of data attributes plus a set of allowable operations e.g. methods on the data attributes. As mentioned above OOP supports inheritance a class called a subclass may be derived from another class called a base class parent class etc. where the subclass inherits the data attributes and methods of the base class. The subclass may specialize the base class by adding code which overrides the data and or methods of the base class or which adds new data attributes and methods. Thus inheritance represents a mechanism by which abstractions are made increasingly concrete as subclasses are created for greater levels of specialization.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Artificial intelligence based systems e.g. explicitly and or implicitly trained classifiers can be employed in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects of the claimed subject matter as described hereinafter. As used herein the term inference infer or variations in form thereof refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

Furthermore all or portions of the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and or representations are the means employed by those cognizant in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others equally skilled. An algorithm is here generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of acts leading to a desired result. The acts are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Typically though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the disclosed subject matter discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and or displaying and the like refer to the action and processes of computer systems and or similar consumer and or industrial electronic devices and or machines that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical electrical and or electronic quantities within the computer s and or machine s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the machine and or computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission and or display devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed system. In order to provide additional context for various aspects thereof and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the claimed subject matter can be implemented. While the description above is in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter as claimed also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and nonremovable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

With reference again to the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the claimed subject matter.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the disclosed and claimed subject matter.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adaptor may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet .

Wi Fi networks can operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands. IEEE 802.11 applies to generally to wireless LANs and provides 1 or 2 Mbps transmission in the 2.4 GHz band using either frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS or direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS . IEEE 802.11a is an extension to IEEE 802.11 that applies to wireless LANs and provides up to 54 Mbps in the 5 GHz band. IEEE 802.11a uses an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM encoding scheme rather than FHSS or DSSS. IEEE 802.11b also referred to as 802.11 High Rate DSSS or Wi Fi is an extension to 802.11 that applies to wireless LANs and provides 11 Mbps transmission with a fallback to 5.5 2 and 1 Mbps in the 2.4 GHz band. IEEE 802.11g applies to wireless LANs and provides 20 Mbps in the 2.4 GHz band. Products can contain more than one band e.g. dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computing environment for processing the differential pricing based on social network architecture in accordance with another aspect. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the claimed subject matter for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the claimed subject matter for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed and claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

