---

title: Multimedia spam determination using speech conversion
abstract: Determining unwanted multimedia message originated from a multimedia call. An interface receives a multimedia message from a telecommunication service operator, and multimedia message is stored on a storage area. A unified communication system manages communication message delivery to at least one of the following access points for the recipient, and the unified communication system includes a processor configured to execute computer-executable instructions for identifying a voice portion from content of the received multimedia message. An anti-spam engine is applied to analyze a textual representation of the identified voice portion, and a confidence ranking of the representation is generated in response to the analyzed representation. It is determined whether the multimedia message is an unwanted multimedia message as a function of the confidence ranking and the analyzed representation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08144841&OS=08144841&RS=08144841
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08144841
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071205
---
With omnipresence of the Internet and the availability of high speed Internet connections multimedia content rendered on computers has become popular and accessible with less hassle. In addition voice over internet protocol VOIP services have emerged as a new technological innovation in using the foundation of the Internet to provide voice communication services.

The popularity of multimedia and VOIP services also brings unwanted messages to the users. Similar to electronic mail e mail spam these so called multimedia spam messages arrive at users voicemail or videomail inboxes answering machines and the like. Even more so than its e mail spam counterpart multimedia spam is more intrusive and annoying because the multimedia spam messages may ring a person s home telephone video phone or mobile phone while the users are at sleep. E mail spam messages may congest a user s inbox at 2 00 A.M. but as long as a user does not open or access the inbox the user is not immediately disturbed by the e mail spam messages.

Existing solutions to this problem attempt to provide a content agnostic spam detection system. Some of the solutions involve identifying multimedia spam messages delivered through a telecommunication network based on the time of the day the caller identification ID information of the call or the like. Such solutions while stopping the user s telephone from ringing in the first place fail to allow a user to have more determination or control in the spam decision making process.

Embodiments of the invention overcome the shortfalls of existing solutions by providing a content based or content dependent determination of multimedia messages when a call is received from a caller. Aspects of the invention identify a voice portion of a multimedia message and perform a speech to text conversion so that the converted text can be analyzed by anti spam engines. The intended recipient will be notified whether the multimedia message is a spam or not. Alternative embodiments enable the user to set additional parameters in addition to the parameters associated with the anti spam engines.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the invention improve processing of multimedia messages and determine whether a given multimedia message is considered as a spam or unwanted multimedia message. Referring first to a block diagram illustrates an exemplary system for determining a multimedia spam message from a call according to an embodiment of the invention. The system includes a telecommunication network or service operator for providing a portion or all telecommunication services to a caller and a recipient . For example the telecommunication network or service operator may be a telephone company or telephone service provider that facilitates and provides telephone services for the caller and the recipient . In one example the telecommunication network or service operator may be a voice over internet protocol VOIP service provider. In another example the telecommunication network or service operator may be a cable or Internet service provider.

The system also includes a unified communication system for providing enhanced services to the caller or the recipient in addition to the telecommunication network or service operator . In one embodiment the unified communication system includes a processor a storage area and an interface . For example the processor may be a microprocessor a central processing unit a cluster of processing units or the like for processing computer executable instructions. The storage area may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example the storage area include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by the unified communication system . The interface may include at least a network interface for communicating the unified communication system with other devices or components and or a user interface UI or graphical UI GUI for interacting with the caller or the recipient .

In an alternative embodiment the unified communication system may be part of a cluster or a collection of computing devices that provide various services to the caller or the recipient . For example the unified communication system provides services through a mail access point a voice access point and a portable phone access point to the recipient . It is to be appreciated that other services may be provided by the unified communication system to the recipient or the caller without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

For example the mail access point may include an electronic mail e mail account and service provided for the recipient . In other words the recipient may access e mail messages sent or received from the mail access point . Other services such as address book calendar tasks or other activities or features may be provided within the mail access point . The voice access point may include voice or telephone services such as VOIP service. The recipient may use the voice access point to place a voice call to a telephone number or an internet protocol address identifying a receiving computing or electronic device. The portable phone access point may include services provided for a portable or mobile phone accessible by the recipient . For example the portable phone access point may provide short message system SMS or text messages between portable and mobile telephones or between a portable telephone and an e mail address. Hence the unified communication system provides various services to the recipient and the caller .

Referring now to a diagram illustrates process flows for determining whether a multimedia message is characterized as spam according to an embodiment of the invention. The process initially begins from the caller when the caller places a call destined for the recipient . In one embodiment the caller may wish to send a multimedia message such as a message with voice content or a video content. The caller first places the call at A and the telecommunication network service operator receives the call. Through its network or networks the telecommunication network service operator forwards the call to the recipient at B. In this illustration the recipient is unavailable to answer the call from the caller . As such a notification is sent from the recipient to the telecommunication service network operator at C. The telecommunication service network operator subsequently notifies the caller at D that the recipient is unavailable to answer the call.

In this instance the caller agrees to leave a multimedia message as illustrated in for the recipient . As such the caller forwards the multimedia message to the telecommunication service network operator at E. The telecommunication service network operator next sends the multimedia message to the unified communication system at F.

Telephone network operators typically use information that identifies the source of the call or the multimedia message without regard to content as the basis for determining whether the multimedia message is considered as an unwanted multimedia message. For example various methods exist to identify unwanted callers based on the caller s phone number i.e. CallerID Blocking or block callers who refuse to identify their phone number i.e. Anonymous Call Blocking . However these methods CallerID blocking and Anonymous Call Blocking are often insufficient to identify unsolicited multimedia messages because they are agnostic to the multimedia message content.

In contrast embodiments of the invention determine whether a multimedia message should be considered as an unwanted message by identifying the audio content of the multimedia message to identify unsolicited undesired messages or SPAM within the multimedia message. Embodiments of the invention include highly accurate Speech to Text processing output with known Bayesian filtering algorithms used to identify text SPAM it becomes possible to block multimedia SPAM messages before they are delivered to the recipient s access point provided by the unified communication system. In an alternative embodiment multimedia messages may be tagged as suspicious when delivered into the subscriber s mailbox if the determination method cannot conclude with high confidence that a multimedia message is SPAM. Additionally multimedia messages may be automatically deleted or even not delivered at all if the unified communication system is highly confident that they are SPAM.

Therefore at G the processor of the unified communication system identifies a voice portion of the multimedia message . In another example the multimedia message includes some combination of text and or speech and or video. As described above the multimedia message may include a purely voice message or a video message having both motion picture portion and a voice portion. Aspects of the invention thus identify the necessary voice portion of the multimedia message for process.

As an example referring to a diagram illustrates identification of a voice portion from the multimedia message . A content included in the multimedia message includes an audio portion. Once the voice portion of the audio portion is identified the unified communication system generates a representation from the identified voice portion and the representation includes at least one of the following a text transcript and an annotated extensible markup language XML file. In another example the unified communication system may reduce an audio stream into an annotated text stream and even a structured annotated text stream denoting particular parts of speech i.e. dates proper names phone numbers etc represented in XML. In one embodiment the unified communication system may include computer executable instructions that represent a known speech to text engine and such speech to text engine may analyze the caller s voice first through an acoustic model that attempts to determine words and then through a language model that attempts to combine words from the acoustic model into parts of speech and ultimately sentences and paragraphs usually represented as a parse tree the language model is very similar to how compilers assemble parse trees for programming languages like C or C . As such the speech to text engine generates the representation of the content of the multimedia message at .

Once the unified communication system generates the representation of the multimedia message the representation is analyzed by applying an anti spam engine to the generated representation. In one embodiment the anti spam engine employs a Bayesian filter to analyze the representation. For example the unified communication system employs a Bayesian filter which examines the generated representation for specific keywords statistically likely to be associated with SPAM for a specific written language. By examining the total number of occurrences of those keywords and weighting them appropriately a probability that a given text based message is SPAM can be assigned. In one embodiment a confidence ranking e.g. from 0 to 100 is generated based on the probability.

In another example Bayesian keyword filtering assigns a probability that any given multimedia mail is SPAM and ultimately notify the recipient . The output of this method may be a text video or audio annotation combined with the original multimedia message indicating there is high probability that the multimedia message contains unsolicited undesired or SPAM content. This annotation can be used to proactively delete the multimedia message or simply alert the recipient .

Based on this confidence ranking the unified communication system determines whether the multimedia message is considered as an unwanted message.

In one embodiment if the multimedia message is a voicemail or is determined to contain voice media only the unified communication system generates a text transcript or annotated XML representation for the voice media using a speech to text engine. On the other hand if the multimedia message is determined to be a videomail the unified communication system extracts the voice portion and generates a text transcript or annotated XML representation for the voice portion of the videomail using a speech to text engine. Once the text transcript and or annotated XML representation of the voice media has been produced the unified communication system may generate a confidence ranking or ranking using an anti SPAM engine expressed as a confidence percentage e.g. 0.00 to 100.00 based on the qualitative ranking produced and two ranking thresholds such as a deletion threshold and a suspicion threshold. In one embodiment the deletion threshold and the suspicion threshold may be defined by the unified communication system or the recipient .

In one embodiment depending on the outcome of the determination above aspects of the invention proactively filter the multimedia message and do not deliver it to the recipient . Alternatively the unified communication system may deliver the multimedia message to the recipient with a visual e.g. text cue stating that the message is deemed or highly likely to be spam or an audio e.g. spoken cue saying that the message is deemed or highly likely to be SPAM notification. An audio notification may be combined with the multimedia message as a prefix. For example The following message is SPAM spoken followed by the original audio of the multimedia message may be used as the notification.

At a determination is made as to whether the confidence ranking is greater than a deletion threshold. If the determination is positive the multimedia message is removed from the unified communication system and the multimedia message is not delivered to the recipient at . On the other hand if the determination is negative i.e. the multimedia message is not a clear spam message and the confidence ranking is less than the deletion threshold a next determination is made as to whether the confidence ranking is greater than a suspicion threshold at . If the determination is positive a notification and the multimedia message and representation are delivered to the recipient at . At if the determination is negative i.e. the multimedia message is not identified as a spam the multimedia message is delivered to the recipient .

In operation a caller e.g. caller leaves a voicemail or videomail message for a recipient after being unable to deliver an original call to a recipient. For example the caller may wish to call the recipient s phone number associated with a portable phone or landline network operator. The telecommunication network service operator utilizes a published application programming interface API exposed and implemented by the unified communication system to transmit the voicemail or videomail content in the multimedia message . The unified communication system determines if it has received a voicemail or videomail message by examining the media content.

In one embodiment if the unified communication system determines that a voicemail has been received it will proceed to process the voicemail. On the other hand if the unified communication system determines that a videomail has been received it will extract the voice component of the videomail and proceed to process the videomail.

The unified communication system may use a speech to text engine to convert the voicemail or voice component of a videomail into a text transcript and or annotated XML voice representation. The unified communication system may use a Bayesian filter based anti spam engine to analyze the text transcript and or annotated XML voice representation and produce a numerical ranking such as confidence ranking. This numerical ranking represents the probability that the multimedia message is SPAM 0.00 to 100.00 .

If the confidence ranking produced is larger than a deletion threshold defined by the unified communication system the multimedia message may be deleted and not delivered to the recipient. Furthermore if the confidence ranking produced is larger than a suspicion threshold defined by the unified communication system but is lower than a deletion threshold the multimedia message may be delivered to the recipient with a voice annotation or a notification indicating that the multimedia message is considered SPAM. This voice annotation may include spoken words in the recipient s selected language i.e. English Spanish French etc . An example may be This message is considered SPAM followed by the original voicemail or videomail multimedia message received from the telecommunication network service operator.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

