---

title: Softstart valve means
abstract: A softstart valve means comprises a main valve member which is only switched over after a certain time from a closed position into an open position. The opening force required for switch over of the main valve member can be produced selectively in a manner dependent from pressure obtaining in a secondary duct or in a time dependent fashion. The respective operational mode can be selected by actuation of switch over means.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07891375&OS=07891375&RS=07891375
owner: Festo AG & Co. KG
number: 07891375
owner_city: Esslingen
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071130
---
The invention relates to a softstart valve means comprising a main valve member placed between a primary duct conducting pressure medium at a primary pressure and a secondary duct said main valve member being biased or able to be biased by a closing force into a closed position disconnecting the connection between the primary duct and the secondary duct said main valve member being able to be switched over by an oppositely acting opening force overriding the closing force into an open position opening the connection between the primary duct and the secondary duct the opening force being derived in a secondary pressure controlled operational mode of the valve means by the gradually increasing secondary pressure of the pressure medium such pressure medium flowing bypassing the main valve member by way of a choke means from the primary duct into the secondary duct.

Such a softstart valve means designed for secondary pressure controlled operation is described in the textbook Pneumatische Steuerungen by Werner Deppert and Kurt Stoll published by Vogel Verlag 10th edition 1994 pages 160 and 161. The main valve member of a shut off valve in the form of a two position valve is in this case placed on the connection between a primary duct connected with a pressure source and a secondary duct connected with the loads to be supplied and selectively can shut off closed position or open open position the connection. Normally the main valve member is in this case biased into the closed position by a closing force based on the primary pressure.

Following the switching on of the valve means the pressure medium flowing by way of primary duct may bypass the closed main valve by way of a first choke means into the secondary duct it flowing by way of a choke means into the secondary duct. The secondary pressure obtaining in the secondary duct is returned for producing a servo or setting force acting on the main valve and switches the main valve into the open position when the secondary pressure and the said setting force has reached a predetermined opening force. Thus it is possible to ensure that the softstart valve means only permits unchoked passage of fluid when the secondary pressure has risen to a certain pressure level. Accordingly all in all a relatively slow build up of pressure is achieved in the connected loads and the occurrence of pressure surges is prevented which could lead to damage or accidental rapid movements of the connected loads.

There are however applications in which using a softstart valve controlled in a manner dependent on the secondary pressure only an insufficient operational mode is possible. If for example on the secondary side a relatively high rate of fluid consumption occurs it may in certain circumstances last a long time before the secondary pressure necessary for producing the opening pressure is built up on the secondary side something which may considerably delay the putting plant into operation. Under unfavorable conditions there may be no switching of the main valve member into the open position at all.

In order to deal with such unsatisfactory condition purely time controlled or timed softstart valves have being become known in which the main valve member is switched gradually and in a manner independent of the currently obtaining secondary pressure after a predetermined period of time into the open position. As an example for such a softstart valve reference may be had to the product catalog Der Pneumatik Katalog issue of 1997 1998 of FESTO AG Co page 9.1 42 1 with a description of a so called pressure build up valve. Since in the case of such a purely time controlled valve no interrogation of the secondary pressure and accordingly of the pressure obtaining at the connected loads takes place there is however the risk in the case of improper use of a premature opening of the main valve member being entailed possibly with resulting damage owing to an excessive pressure surge.

In many cases account could be taken of the respective application by having an appropriate selection of the type of softstart valve utilized. In the case of changing operational conditions this has however turned out to be impractical. As a rule there is no realistic possibility of modification of a plant to suit different applications.

The present invention has the aim of proposing measures which in most cases render possible a specific gradual build up of pressure tailored to requirements.

In order to achieve this aim a softstart valve means of the type initially mentioned is provided with switch over means which permit the switching over of the operational mode of the valve means between an operational mode controlled by the secondary pressure and a time controlled operational mode switching over the main valve independently of the secondary pressure purely time dependent into the open position.

The switch over means of this softstart valve means in accordance with the invention preferably comprise a switch over valve able to be actuated to change the operational mode and which dependent on the switching position causes the internal switching of the components of the softstart valve means for the respective operational mode.

In the case of such a softstart valve means the user has the possibility of selecting the operational mode in a manner dependent on the respective case of application specifically without replacing or modifying the softstart valve means or. Even in the event of frequently changing conditions of use it is accordingly simply and quickly possible to switch over between the secondary pressure controlled operational mode and the purely time controlled operational mode.

The softstart valve means may be utilized in all cases in which during starting up plant or equipment a gradual build up of pressure is strived at. For instance the softstart valve means can be a component of a valve cluster joined together with several multiway valves to form a subassembly. A further particularly advantageous application is use as a component of a preferably modularly designed compressed air conditioning device employed for servicing compressed air. In this case the softstart valve means may more particularly when it is designed as a compact valve unit perform the function of a valve.

The softstart valve means is more especially so designed that during the time controlled operational mode the secondary pressure does not exert any resulting setting forces on the main valve member. To produce the necessary opening force the main valve member is instead of this acted upon in its open position by a pressure medium which flows to it in a choked manner without a connection with the secondary duct.

In the case of a convenient further development the softstart valve means is so designed that during the time controlled operational mode the choked supply responsible for producing the opening force of the pressure medium takes place by way of that choke means which during the operational mode dependent on secondary pressure is responsible for the build up of pressure in the secondary duct. During the time controlled operational mode the connection between this choke means and the secondary duct is disconnected so that a build up of pressure independent of the secondary pressure may take place for the production of the opening force.

In this connection it is an advantage if the main valve member is gradually switched over into the open position by the choked supply of fluid the build up of pressure in the secondary duct not taking place by way of a parallel choke means but rather by way of the transfer cross section increasingly upregulated by the main valve member so that the choke function is practically transferred to the main valve member.

In the fluid connection present in the time controlled operational mode between the choke means and the main valve member there is preferably a further choke means termed an auxiliary choke means. The flow rate permitted by same is preferably less than that of the upstream choke means. Since in the time controlled operational mode the fluid volume required for the buildup of the necessary opening force is generally substantially less than during the secondary pressure controlled operational mode it is possible in this fashion for there to be a predetermination suited to the particular application of the pressure build up time.

The deprivation of effect aimed at in the time controlled operational mode of the secondary pressure as regards the main valve member may more particularly be achieved if the secondary pressure is applied in addition to application to the opening face of the of the main valve member during secondary pressure dependent mode operation also to an oppositely orientated compensation face of equal area of the main valve member. This will mean the main valve member is balanced as regards pressure force for the secondary pressure.

In the case of a further embodiment of the softstart valve means during the time controlled operational mode the choked supply flow of the pressure medium responsible for producing the opening force finds its way by way of a choke means termed a further choke means which is present in addition to that choke means via which the build up of pressure occurs in the secondary duct during the operational mode dependent on secondary pressure. In this case however the fluid connection present during the secondary pressure dependent operational mode between the secondary duct and the main valve member is interrupted.

In all cases there is preferably a provision such that the closing force acting on the main valve member results from a fluid control pressure which is more particularly due to a pressure medium tapped from the primary duct. The control pressure may in particular correspond to the primary duct. Nevertheless for reasons of strength as a rule it is best to have an additional spring means with a smaller setting force.

For switching the softstart function on and off the softstart valve means preferably has a control valve means associated with the secondary duct. It can be selectively positioned in a working position permitting fluid flow or a discharge position when the valve is turned off. In the in the discharge position there is a relief of pressure more especially venting the secondary duct to the atmosphere.

The control valve means may in principle be designed for manual activation. It is particularly preferred however to have operation by means of an auxiliary valve.

To the extent that the switching over means comprise a switch over valve it is also preferred to provide for a manual or electrical manner of operation.

In the following the invention will be explained with reference to the accompanying drawings in detail.

Both the first working example depicted in and also the second working example illustrated in of the softstart valve means generally referenced are designed as a valve unit in which all components are collected together as a subassembly. This facilitates the installation at the site of use and more particularly the integration as a module in a modularly designed compressed air conditioning or servicing device.

The softstart valve means simply termed a softstart valve comprises a housing which in the working example in accordance with is only indicated in chained lines on which a fluid inlet port and a fluid outlet port are provided.

The inlet port belongs to a primary duct running in the housing and renders possible the connection of a pressure source not illustrated in detail which supplies a fluid pressure medium at a primary pressure P and in more particularly in form of compressed air. As an alternative the softstart valve may also be operated with another gas or with some other fluid pressure medium.

The outlet port belongs to a secondary duct running in the housing by way of which the pressure medium supplied by way of the primary duct leaves the softstart valve at a secondary pressure P again in order to be supplied to one or more loads not illustrated . In the case of the at least one load it is a question for example of a valve a drive run on fluid power or some other means.

On the connection between the primary duct and the secondary duct a preferably linearly moving main valve member is placed. Same controls an associated transfer opening which is only depicted in more detail in the second working example. In this case the main valve member may be in the form of a valve spool with a peripheral switching face or more preferably and as in the working example in the form of a seat valve member which can cooperate with a valve seat surrounding the transfer opening .

By dint of performing a linear switching over movement indicated by a double arrow the main valve member is able to be switched over between a closed position to be seen in the and and an open position illustrated in . In the closed position the direct fluid connection between the primary duct and the secondary duct is shut off and in the open position it is available for flow.

The softstart valves are so designed that as from a switching on time with the main valve member still in the closed position pressure medium may flow subject to a choking effect into the secondary duct in order to cause a gradual build up of pressure there. It is only when as a result the secondary pressure gets near the level of the primary pressure or reaches it that the main valve member is opened to make the full flow cross section available. In this case the softstart valve may be selectively operated in either of two modes i.e. in a secondary pressure controlled operational mode or in time controlled operational mode. In the former case the main valve member switches over in a manner dependent on the level of the secondary pressure into the open position and independently of the time elapsing. A limit value of the secondary pressure may be set on reaching which the main valve member is switched over into the open position. In the second mentioned case the switch over of the main valve member into the open position is purely timed or time controlled i.e. after the expiry of a predetermined time and independently of the pressure obtaining in the secondary duct .

The softstart valve is fitted with switch over means which render possible a switch over between the two operational modes. An essential component of the switch means is in this case and in both working example a switch over valve which is able to be shifted into the first switching position for the secondary pressure controlled operational mode and a second switching position for the time controlled operational mode it producing in these switching position different internal fluid circuit connections for the softstart valve which are responsible for either a secondary pressure dependent or a time dependent generation of an opening force Fto switch over the main valve member against the closing force Finto the open position.

For the switching on and switching off of the softstart valve means a control valve means is present. Its switch over into a working position constitutes the switch on point in time relevant for the start of softstart functionality. In this respect it can readily be a control valve means able to be switched over by a purely manual force. Preferably however it has an associated electrically controlled auxiliary valve for its actuation which may practically act as a pilot valve for the control valve means. In the particular working example it is a question of an electrically operated 3 2 way valve and more especially a solenoid valve.

In order to produce the closing force Fthe main valve member is provided with a closing face able to be acted upon by a control fluid at a certain control pressure. In the case of both working examples the control fluid is constituted by a pressure medium which is tapped from the primary duct . The control pressure therefore preferably corresponds to the primary pressure.

The control pressure is supplied to the closing face by way of first actuating duct . In the working example of this takes place through a direct connection between the closing face and the primary duct with the result that the closing force is always present independently of the switching condition of the auxiliary valve when the primary duct is under pressure.

In the working embodiment illustrated in the auxiliary valve is placed on the first actuating duct . An input branch of the actuating duct joins the primary duct with the input of the auxiliary valve whereas an output branch of the first actuating duct joins the output of the auxiliary valve with a first actuating chamber which inter alia is delimited by the closing face . In the non actuated home state of the auxiliary valve the connection between the input branch and the output branch is interrupted so that the main valve member is not act upon by a fluid closing pressure. This will only be the case when the two duct branches and are joined together.

The closed position is also the home position of the main valve member. It is assumed by the main valve member in the completely pressureless state of the softstart valve . This is ensured by a first spring means which actuates the main valve member in the closed position.

In the working embodiment illustrated in the first spring means constantly acts in the closing direction on the main valve member . In the working embodiment illustrated in the closing action of the first spring means is restricted to a condition in which the control valve means is in its discharge position.

In the case of both working examples the gradual build up of pressure in the secondary duct occurs at least during the secondary pressure controlled operational mode by way of a bypass duct circumventing the main valve member and on which a preferably adjustable choke means is placed. The choke means limits the flow rate so that the supply of the pressure medium into the secondary duct occurs more slowly than when the main valve member is open.

In the case of both working embodiments an actuating face termed the opening face is present on the main valve member facing in the opposite direction to the closing face such opening face being subjected at least during the primary pressure controlled operational mode to a gradually increasing actuating pressure from which the opening force Fresults. If this opening force Fexceeds the oppositely acting closing force Fthe main valve member will switch over into the open position.

In the case of both working embodiments the actuating pressure effective during the secondary pressure controlled operational mode at the opening face is derived from the secondary pressure gradually building up in the secondary duct it being preferably equal to this secondary pressure. The pressure medium in this case can be tapped directly from the secondary duct .

The two working examples will be described separately in the following in the absence of any indication to the contrary.

In the working embodiment illustrated in the control valve means is placed on the secondary duct . Using spring means it is biased into the discharge position indicated in the drawing and in which it interrupts passage of fluid through the secondary duct and at the same time connects the terminal duct branch leading to the outlet port of the secondary duct with a discharge duct leading to the atmosphere R. The bypass duct opens between the main valve member and the control valve means into the secondary duct and is shut off in the closed position of the control valve means .

The control valve means is able to be switched over by a fluid pressure signal into a working position in which it opens the fluid passage through the secondary duct and at the same time disconnects the outlet duct . The fluid pressure signal is able to be supplied by way of a control duct branching from the primary duct and on which the auxiliary valve is placed. In the non actuated home position of the auxiliary valve the control duct is interrupted and the duct branch leading to the control valve means is joined by way of a discharge duct with the atmosphere R.

In the actuated open position of the auxiliary valve the passage for fluid through the control duct is opened up and the discharge duct is disconnected.

In the case of both operational modes the actuating pressure is switched to the opening face by way of an actuating duct . The latter is connected at the other end with the outlet of the switch over valve .

The switch over valve possesses two inlets and of which the first inlet is joined directly with the secondary duct to wit in particular with the terminal duct branch . The second inlet is joined via a further choke means with the terminal duct branch of the control duct .

During operation of the softstart valve when the auxiliary valve is in the open position and accordingly the control valve means is in the operating position the secondary pressure will be present at the first inlet whereas the second inlet is supplied via the further choke means with pressure medium from the primary duct . If there is no auxiliary valve the duct with the further choke means on it can be also directly joined with the primary duct .

The switch over valve may selectively be set in the first switching position as illustrated in the drawing for the secondary pressure controlled operational mode or in a second switching position for the time controlled operational mode. In the actual working example actuation takes place manually although electrical operation would be possible as well. The switch over valve is a bistable valve and therefore remains automatically in the respectively set position.

As a rule the softstart valve will be operated with a design such that there is a heavier choking effect at the further choke means than at the choke means associated with the main valve member .

The switched state of the switch over valve is without effect on the fluid actuation effective at the closing face . Here there is always the control pressure producing the closing force F i.e. in the present case the primary pressure. Dependent on the switching position of the switch over valve the source of actuating fluid for the opening face will be changed. The face will be supplied in the first switching position of the switch over valve from the secondary duct and in the second switching position via the further choke means from the primary duct . The respectively other source of actuating fluid is in this case disconnected from the opening face or respectively from the actuating duct .

The softstart valve in may be secondary pressure controlled if the switch over valve is shifted into the first switching position. Accordingly the secondary pressure is switched to the opening face and the main valve member will only switch out of the closed position so far assumed into the open position when an opening force Fobtains exceeding the opposite closing force. By selection of suitable area relationships between the opening face and the closing face the threshold value of the secondary pressure the switching over may be set. It is preferred to have a setting at a threshold value corresponding to half the primary pressure.

In order to operate the softstart valve with time control the switch over valve is shifted over into the second switching position. Accordingly the secondary pressure no longer affects the switch over behavior of the main valve member . As the actuating pressure the pressure obtaining downstream from the further choke means functions which gradually increases in a time dependent fashion with the fluid of pressure medium via the further choke means from the primary duct to the opening face . Once again the main valve member will switch over into the open position when the actuating pressure as set by the area ratios has reached a predetermined threshold value.

For turning off the softstart valve the auxiliary is shifted back into the home position. Accordingly via the control duct and the discharge duct there will be a discharge of pressure at the second outlet and furthermore a reduction of the fluid pressure signal responsible for setting the working position of the control valve means . The reduction will entail a switch over of the control valve means into the discharge position with the result that the terminal duct branch leading to the outlet port of the secondary duct and the first inlet will be relieved of pressure by way of the discharge duct .

Irrespectively of the position assumed by the switch over valve on such turning off of the softstart valve there will be a relief of pressure in the actuating duct and accordingly at the opening face with the result that the main valve member will move back into its closed position.

It will be clear that a significant feature of the softstart valve is that the secondary pressure is switched to be without an effective force during the time controlled operational mode as regards the main valve member and the main valve member will instead for producing the opening force be subjected to pressure medium supplied in a choked manner without. This will also apply furthermore for the second working example of described in the following.

In the case of this second working embodiment the switch over valve is placed on the bypass duct i.e. on the terminal duct branch arranged downstream from the choke means leading to the secondary duct . It divides up this terminal duct branch into a first duct branch portion leading to the choke means and furthermore a second duct branch portion opening into the secondary duct . The switch over valve may assume the first switching position illustrated in for secondary pressure controlled operation in which it joins the two duct branch portions and with each other and accordingly creates a fluid connection bypassing the main valve member by way of which a choked fluid flow may take place into the secondary duct . In this case the current secondary pressure acts as an actuating pressure on the opening face which is preferably constituted by the end face adjoining the transfer opening of the main valve member .

If the opening force Fshould exceed the oppositely acting closing force F the main valve member which so far has been in the closed position in accordance with will shift into the open position indicated in . As in the working example of a threshold value for the secondary pressure may be set by the area ratio between the opening face and the closing face such threshold value being the value at which the main valve member is switched over in the open position.

The closing face in the working embodiment of is preferably formed by the end face opposite to the opening face of the main valve member . It delimits the first actuating chamber which via the intermediately placed auxiliary valve is joined via the already mentioned first actuating duct with the primary duct . The auxiliary valve furthermore has a discharge duct leading into the atmosphere. If the auxiliary valve is in the non actuated home position depicted in the terminal duct branch extending between the first actuating chamber unit auxiliary valve of the first actuating duct will be relieved of pressure by way of the discharge duct and simultaneously the initially placed duct branch leading to the primary duct will be disconnected.

In the actuated open position of the auxiliary valve the condition depicted in and will result in which the first actuating chamber will be subjected to a control pressure arriving through the primary duct producing the closing force F such control pressure in this case corresponding to the primary pressure.

In the case of the second working embodiment the first actuating duct has a double function. It acts in a manner similar to the control duct of the first working example also as a duct via which the control valve means is operated.

The control valve means in the second working example of the softstart valve comprises a control valve member preferably coaxially extending through the main valve member and being able to be switched over in relation to the main valve member parallel to the direction of the switch over movement between two switching positions. An actuating portion formed opposite to the closing face and for instance in the form of a round plate of the control valve member constitutes like the main valve member a moving wall portion of the first actuating chamber and is subjected to the fluid located in the first actuating chamber in a closing direction . The control valve member accordingly shifts into the above mentioned working position in which by a closure portion thereof axially opposite the main valve member on the opposite side like the actuating portion it shuts off a discharge opening communicating with the secondary duct see and .

In the condition connected to be free of pressure of the first actuating chamber the control valve means will assume with the cooperation of the above mentioned first spring means the discharge position depicted in in which its closure portion is lifted clear of the discharge opening so that the secondary duct is connected with the atmosphere R.

If the primary pressure obtains in the primary duct and if the auxiliary valve is in the non actuated home position the control valve member will be additionally held by a fluid pressure signal in the discharge position. This will act on the actuating portion on the side opposite to the first actuating chamber to wit via a control duct branching off from the initially placed duct branch of the bypass duct an additional auxiliary valve member being placed on the control duct .

The additional auxiliary valve member is so designed that it may be switched over between two switching position. Spring means acting on it hold it in the first switching position when the auxiliary valve is not actuated. In this case the passage through the control duct is open and fluid pressure signal which holds the control valve member in the discharge position obtains. This first switching position will be seen from .

When the auxiliary valve is operated the pressure obtaining in the terminal duct branch of the first actuating duct will act oppositely to the spring means on the additional auxiliary valve member and will switch same into the second switching position illustrated in and in which the passage through the control duct is shut off and the duct branch leading to the actuating portion of the controlled duct is connected by way of a discharge duct with the atmosphere. Accordingly on switch over of the auxiliary valve by cooperation with the additional auxiliary valve member there will always be an opposite fluid action on the control valve member .

The additional auxiliary valve member has a double function since it furthermore controls fluid flow through the first duct portion of the initially placed duct branch of the bypass duct . In the first switching position in accordance with the fluid flow is interrupted and simultaneously the duct portion leading to the switch over valve by way of the discharge duct is relieved of pressure. In the second switching position the fluid connection is open.

In addition to the opening face which in the following is also termed the first opening face there is an identically orientated second opening face axially spaced from the main valve member . The face delimits together with the valve housing an actuating chamber which is joined via an actuating duct with the switch over valve .

Furthermore on the main valve member there is a compensation face which is oppositely orientated to the first opening face and with the valve housing delimits a compensation chamber which is also connected with the switch over valve a by way of a compensation duct .

In the switching position of the switch over valve predicating the secondary pressure controlled operational mode the switch over valve frees the passage through the bypass duct by connecting the two duct portions and with each other. Simultaneously the actuating chamber and the actuating chamber are connected with the atmosphere R by way of a respective discharge opening and for relief of pressure.

In the second switching position setting the time controlled operational mode of the switch over valve the switch over valve will have connected the compensation duct with the second duct portion of the bypass duct with the result that in the compensation chamber the same pressure obtains as in the secondary duct and accordingly owing to the identical size of the first opening face and of the compensation face there will be a force related compensation of the secondary pressure as regards the main valve member . The secondary pressure is therefore so disconnected that it is without effect as regards force on the main valve member .

At the same time in the second switching position of the switch over valve the actuating duct is connected with the first duct portion of the bypass duct coming from the choke means . Accordingly the second opening face is acted upon by pressure medium flowing in from the choke means and accordingly choked thereby so that the opening force Fis produced. By selection of a suitable area ratio between the second opening face and the opposite closing face the switching properties of the main valve member may be influenced.

On the actuating duct an additional choke means is preferably placed which limits the flow rate of the pressure medium into the actuating chamber . It is preferably a question of an additional choke means able to be adjusted as regards the intensity of its choking action.

Preferably the additional choke means has a check valve connected with it in parallel. This valve turns off in the direction toward the actuating chamber and permits free fluid flow in the opposite direction.

The switch over valve may as illustrated be designed for manual operation. An electrically operated modification would however also be possible. However it is best to have a bistable design of the valve which remains in the respectively set position without application of energy until reswitched.

As regards closing spring it is to be noted that in the non actuated state of the auxiliary valve it may act via the control valve member on the main valve member . The actuating portion of the control valve member acted upon by it is thrust against the closing face and holds the main valve member accordingly in the closed position.

In the following the normal manner of operation of the second working embodiment of the softstart valve means will be explained with reference to .

If the auxiliary valve is not actuated then there will be identical basic conditions of the two operational modes which are illustrated in . The pressure medium in the primary duct is prevented by the additional auxiliary valve member from flowing through the bypass duct and is simultaneously switched through to the control valve member as a fluid pressure signal with the result that the control valve means assumes the discharge position.

The secondary duct is consequently relieved of pressure and the main valve member is in the closed position.

On actuation of the auxiliary valve the control valve member is switched over into the working position. The additional auxiliary valve member opens the passage through the bypass duct so that the pressure medium choked by the choke means will transfer via the bypass and via the switch over valve into the secondary duct . Owing to such choking action the secondary pressure will only gradually increase so that the connected loads are supplied with pressure relative gently and there are no undesired pressure surges.

The gradually increasing secondary pressure will from the start act on the first opening face the setting force exerted by it acting against the closing force. The latter results from the primary pressure obtaining in the first actuating chamber and acting on the closing face .

Should the setting force resulting from the secondary pressure exceed the opening force F the main valve member will switch over from the closed position assumed in into the open position depicted in . Since the main valve can move in relation to the control valve member the latter is not affected by the switch over movement.

Since the main valve is now open fluid may flow without hindrance at the maximum rate directly between the primary duct and the secondary duct .

In order to relieve the secondary duct of pressure again it is sufficient to deactivate the auxiliary valve . Then the conditions of will obtain again.

In order to change into the time dependent operational mode a simple switch over of the switch over valve into the second switching position indicated in is sufficient. Starting with the home position of there will in this operational mode on actuation of the auxiliary valve the following course of events see . The bypass duct is interrupted by the switch over valve so that through it no passage of fluid is possible from the primary duct to the secondary duct . The second duct portion opening into the secondary duct is joined by the switch over valve with the compensation chamber so that the secondary pressure is compensated in force at the main valve member and it does not have any further effect on the position of the main valve member .

Simultaneously the first portion lying downstream from the choke means of the bypass duct is joined with the actuating chamber . Accordingly choked pressure medium will flow into the latter from the primary duct such medium exerting a gradually waxing setting force on the second opening face .

Owing to this gradual increase in setting force the main valve member will perform a continuous opening movement in the course of which it opens direct fluid passage between the primary duct and the secondary duct . At a randomly selected intermediate position of the main valve member is indicated which same assumes on its way into the open position depicted in for a short time.

In the case of this gradual opening of the main valve member the secondary pressure gradually rises and entails a gentle action of pressure on the connected loads.

It is only when owing to the action of pressure in the actuating chamber the opening force Fis reached as determined by the area ratio between the second opening face and the opening face that the main valve member switches over into the open position as illustrated in so that now unchoked and direct fluid transfer is possible between the primary duct and the secondary duct .

The opening of the main valve member takes place in this operational mode purely under time control i.e. dependent on the time which is required by the pressure medium flowing via the two choke means and into the actuating chamber to attain the necessary opening pressure. It is in this manner that a reliable opening may be ensured even if the build up of the secondary pressure is delayed for some reason. Under such unfavorable conditions a switch over into the open position may be entailed.

Since the additional choke means is arranged in the actuating duct it is only effective in the time controlled operational mode. Accordingly for this mode a special or independent flow rate can be set which as a rule is substantially smaller than that which is required for secondary pressure controlled operation and in this case is set by the choke means . The different flow rates are to be aimed at because the volume of the compensation chamber to be filled in the time controlled operational mode for causing the switch over movement of the main valve member is substantially less than the volume to be filled in secondary pressure dependent operation namely the volume of the loads connected with the secondary duct .

In the time controlled operational mode as well the basic condition illustrated in may be quite simply restored by switching the auxiliary valve back into the non actuated position. The actuating chamber is then relieved of pressure by way of the actuating duct the first duct portion and the discharge duct . The check valve ensures in this case a rapid venting at the additional choke means .

In the two working examples it is an advantage if all components of the softstart valve are collected together as a valve unit so that as regards fluid flow only the inlet port and the outlet port must be connected with corresponding lines. In this case the first actuating duct depicted as partially extending outside the valve housing may be a component of the valve unit.

The design of the softstart valve as a valve unit also involves the substantial advantage of a possibility of employment as a module in a modularly designed compressed air servicing device.

