---

title: Out-flow margin protection for a gas turbine engine
abstract: A cooled turbine exhaust case assembly includes a plenum defined at least in part by a forward outer diameter flowpath ring and a turbine case, a probe positioned at a probe opening formed in the forward outer diameter flowpath ring, and an inlet opening in the turbine case for introducing cooling air to the plenum.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07798765&OS=07798765&RS=07798765
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07798765
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070412
---
The invention was made with Government support under N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to cooling gas turbine engine components and more particularly to cooling gas turbine engine components at or near exhaust system hot gas flowpaths.

Gas turbine engines generally include an exhaust system located at an aft end of the engine. These exhaust systems can include a turbine exhaust case TEC that is located aft of the turbine section or sections of the engine. In low bypass ratio engines and engines for military applications the TEC is important for straightening hot gas flow for an afterburner system located aft of the TEC for improving the engine s radar profile etc. TEC assemblies generally include a forward outer diameter ring FODR located at a forward portion of the TEC that defines a portion of a hot gas flowpath.

Probes or sensors may be positioned to extend through the FODR during engine testing and during regular flight cycles. These probes extend into the hot gas flowpath in order to gather desired data. Often such probes are positioned in a hole defined through the FODR and a boss assembly having a slider seal plate is positioned to seal a gap formed between the probe and the edges of the hole in the FODR. The slider seal plate can be retained by tabs located at a radially outer surface of the FODR.

Exhaust system components are often subject to adverse pressure gradients and high temperature levels during operation. Those conditions can lead to undesirable stress wear and damage to engine components. Over time this can lead to relatively short lifespans of affected components and lead to significant expenditures of time effort and money to repair or replace those affected components. In addition inadequate pressurization of a FODR plenum at the hot gas flowpath can produce a negative pressure difference and lead to undesirable inflow of hot gases into the FODR plenum at the slider seal plate of the boss assembly and other locations.

A cooled turbine exhaust case assembly includes a plenum defined at least in part by a forward outer diameter flowpath ring and a turbine case a probe positioned at a probe opening formed in the forward outer diameter flowpath ring and an inlet opening in the turbine case for introducing cooling air to the plenum.

In general the present invention provides a cooled turbine exhaust case TEC assembly for a gas turbine engine and a method for cooling the same. The TEC includes a forward outer diameter ring FODR plenum into which a cooling gas is introduced. The cooling gas can be introduced to the FODR plenum through one or more cooling openings defined in a turbine case or optionally through a bent cooling sleeve assembly supported by the turbine case. The cooling gas can also be delivered to the FODR plenum at an angle in order to help avoid directly impinging cooling gas upon surfaces of the FODR for example where the cooling gas is delivered in a direction that is substantially tangential to an inner surface of the turbine case. In addition one or more cooling holes can be defined in a forward region of the FODR for allowing cooling air to exit the FODR plenum to a hot gas flowpath of the engine in order to provide film cooling. The present invention provides a number of benefits that include reducing inflow of hot gases into the FODR plenum providing effective film cooling to the FODR at a hot gas flowpath margin attenuating pressure cyclic oscillations and limiting thermal gradients in the FODR and turbine case. These benefits and others will be understood in conjunction with the more detailed discussion of the present invention that follows below.

A probe or sensor is exposed to the hot gas flowpath at an opening in a generally aft or downstream region of the FODR . The probe is supported at a conventional boss assembly which includes a slider plate seal retained by tabs for sealing a gap between the probe and edges of the opening . is a perspective view of a portion of the FODR and the boss assembly showing a radially outward surface of the FODR . As shown in the slider plate seal has a opening formed therein to seal around the probe yet still allow the probe to be exposed to the hot gas flowpath. The probe can be of nearly any known type for collecting data relevant to gas turbine engine operation. For example the probe can be an exhaust gas temperature EGT probe a pressure sensing probe or other type of probe. In some embodiments a plurality of probes which can be of the same type or of different types can be circumferentially spaced about the FODR . For instance additional probes can be installed in test engines for gathering additional data while those additional probes may be omitted in engines intended for regular use.

Because the FODR and the FODR plenum are exposed to or in close proximity to the hot gas flowpath both are subject to heating during engine operation. Such heating is traditionally especially problematic at the boss assembly where the probe is supported because of the divergent shape of the TEC assembly . That divergent shape causes hot gases in the hot gas flowpath to decelerate and increase pressure which can present hot gas stagnation and recirculation problems in that area that further contribute to undesired heating of nearby engine components. It is effectively impossible to move the boss assembly and the probe upstream to a more forward region of the FODR of the TEC assembly because access within the engine for installing and maintaining those components typically from radially outward locations is only available at the aft region of the FODR . However according to the present invention cooling is provided relative to the FODR plenum in order to limit thermal damage and undesired thermal gradients. Furthermore the cooling process pressurizes the FODR plenum which helps reduce undesired hot gas inflow.

Turning again to the LPT case includes a number of cooling fluid inlet openings that connect the FODR plenum to a cooling fluid supply region in the LPT case not shown in its entirety . The cooling fluid can be bleed air from a relatively low temperature section of the engine such as a compressor or fan section and that bleed air can be collected and routed to the LPT case in a conventional manner. The inlet openings can be circumferentially spaced and arranged in a single row as shown in or arranged in multiple rows with or without clocking between adjacent rows in alternative embodiments. Pressure of the cooling fluid can be approximately twice that of a forward or upstream portion of the FODR plenum in order to produce suitable flows of cooling fluid through the inlet openings into the FODR plenum which will typically produce sonic unity Mach number cooling jets into the FODR plenum . However those skilled in the art will recognize that the particular pressure ratios can vary for particular applications.

Cooling fluid introduced into the FODR plenum can be exhausted from the FODR plenum into the hot gas flowpath through one or more film cooling openings defined through the FODR . The film cooling openings provide film cooling along a radially inner surface of the FODR in order to help protect the FODR from accepting thermal energy present in the hot gas flowpath. It should be noted that the number and size of the film cooling openings should be selected such that a desired pressure ratio between the FODR plenum and the hot gas flowpath is maintained in order to reduce a risk of hot gas inflow to the FODR plenum . The film cooling openings can be located in a generally upstream or forward region of the FODR and can be circumferentially spaced and arranged in a number of rows with or without clocking between adjacent rows as desired for particular applications. Greater film cooling effectiveness is generally provided where the film cooling openings are located in a forward region of the FODR rather than an aft region closer to the boss assembly and the probe because openings formed further aft or downstream pose a significant risk of undesired hot gas inflow due to the divergent shape of the TEC assembly across the FODR . This may appear counter intuitive but is the optimal result of a trade off between a desire to provide effective film cooling across substantially the entire FODR and the risk of undesired hot gas inflow.

The angle at which the cooling fluid flows are delivered can be determined by defining the inlet openings in the LPT case at the angle . Alternatively additional structures can be optionally provided to deliver the cooling fluid flows at a desired orientation.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

