---

title: Seating unit with adjustable lumbar device
abstract: A chair includes a lower back frame, a back construction, including a back support attached to the lower back frame, a cushion assembly attached to the back support, and a vertically adjustable lumbar frame positioned between the back support and the cushion assembly. The lumbar frame includes a transition shell and a vertically sliding lumbar device having a plurality of horizontal flexible wires. A lower edge of the transition shell is positioned on top of an uppermost horizontal flexible wire of the lumbar device. The lumbar device is operably slidably mounted between the outer shell and cushion assembly and the transition shell upper edge slides between the outer shell and the upholstery cushion assembly. Also disclosed is a chair including a Y-shaped lower back frame having two uprights and a cross-piece attached to the back support. The uprights and cross-piece of the lower back frame include an overlap flange and the back support includes a channel-shaped flange having detents. The overlap flange and channel-shaped flange mate to form an overlap joint, including a box beam for added structural support.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07857388&OS=07857388&RS=07857388
owner: Steelcase Inc.
number: 07857388
owner_city: Grand Rapids
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070601
---
This application is related to co assigned co pending application Ser. No. 11 757 187 filed on even date herewith entitled HEIGHT ADJUSTABLE ARMREST and also related to co assigned co pending application Ser. No. 11 757 169 filed one even data herewith entitled CHAIR BACK ATTACHMENT AND METHOD OF ASSEMBLY the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a chair incorporating an adjustable lumbar assembly and device and an overlap joint connection. More particularly the present invention relates to a chair having a back support an upholstery cushion assembly and a vertically adjustable flexible live back lumbar assembly and device positioned therebetween and a chair back support connected to a lower frame having an overlap joint connection.

Chair users and seating manufacturers have recognized the value and health benefit of providing good adjustable lumbar support. However new lumbar devices are desired which provide optimal comfort but are simple to manufacture and assemble are easily adjustable operate smoothly and are durable and robust. A lumbar device is desired that slides more fluidly and smoothly between adjusted positions yet is secure in its selected position and effective in its function.

Accordingly an adjustable lumbar assembly and device are desired that solves the aforementioned problems and that has the aforementioned advantages.

In one aspect of the present invention a chair back construction includes an outer shell a lumbar assembly positioned over the outer shell and a cushion assembly positioned over the lumbar assembly and attached to the outer shell. The lumbar assembly includes a lumbar frame including a transition shell having an upper edge and a lower edge and a vertically sliding live lumbar device having a plurality of horizontal flexible wires where the transition shell lower edge is positioned on top of an uppermost horizontal flexible wire of the lumbar device. The lumbar device is operably slidably mounted between the outer shell and cushion assembly and the transition shell upper edge slides between the outer shell and the upholstery cushion assembly.

In another aspect of the present invention a lumbar device is provided which includes a pair of wire retainers and a plurality of flexible wires. Each retainer includes a convex front surface which has a plurality of wells an outside surface including oppositional tabs for slidably engaging a wave ridge of a back support to hold the lumbar device in a selected position and a rear surface which is shaped to slidably engage a front surface of the back support. The plurality of flexible wires are positioned in the wire retainer wells and held in a horizontal position and form a curved surface which pushes in the direction of the cushion assembly to provide live lumbar support.

In yet another aspect of the present invention a chair includes a lower back frame having two uprights and a cross piece where the uprights and cross piece each include an overlap flange. The chair also includes a back construction having a back support attached to the lower back frame. The back support includes two sides and a bottom where the sides and bottom each include a channel shaped flange. The overlap flanges of the uprights and cross piece and the channel shaped flanges of the back support mate to form a U shaped overlapped joint.

In another aspect of the present invention a chair includes a lower back frame having two uprights and a cross piece where the uprights each include an overlap flange. The chair also includes a back support attached to the lower back frame where the back support has two sides each including a channel shaped flange having detents. The overlap flange of the uprights and the channel shaped flanges mate to form a box beam on each side.

These and other aspects objects and features of the present invention will be understood and appreciated by those skilled in the art upon studying the following specification claims and appended drawings.

For purposes of description herein the terms upper lower rear front vertical horizontal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the invention as oriented in . The terms right and left shall relate to the invention as oriented relative to a person in a seated position. However it is to be understood that the invention may assume various alternative orientations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments of the inventive concepts defined in the appended claims. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics relating to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting unless the claims expressly state otherwise.

As illustrated in one embodiment of a chair of the present invention includes a base a lower back frame a seat and a back construction . The base includes a leg assembly and a control housing attached to the leg assembly . The control housing includes a fixed support structure which extends laterally and upwardly on either side of the control housing . An armrest is attached to each side of the support structure. The seat is attached to the control housing . The lower back frame is attached to the control housing and extends outwardly and upwardly. As shown in the back construction is attached to the lower back frame and includes a back support also referred to as an outer shell and a cushion assembly including an inner shell attached to the back support . The back construction also includes a lumbar assembly which is disposed between the back support and the cushion assembly . The cushion assembly is attached to the back support shell with a quick attach hooking top and side connections described further below and a ZIP LOCK type bottom connection. The back construction also includes an upholstery attachment clip which is wedgingly engaged between the back support and the cushion assembly . The upholstery attachment clip makes assembly and disassembly of the back construction easier and less time consuming.

The lower back frame is Y shaped and includes two uprights and a cross piece which connects the two uprights . The lower ends of the two uprights meet at a vertex . A lower back frame structure extends laterally from the vertex and attaches to the control housing . The lower back frame includes an inside face which engages the back support and an outside face . The inside face of the uprights and the cross piece attach to the back support and include an overlap flange and apertured bosses . The outside face of the cross piece includes a horizontal recess on the cross piece s bottom edge.

The back support or outer shell comprises a molded polypropylene material or similar engineering type structural material and includes relatively stiff thoracic and pelvic sections. Referring to FIGS. and the back support includes an inside face and an outside face . The back support also includes an upper or thoracic section and a lower or lumbar pelvic region . The upper section of the inside face of the back support includes a lip along its top and side edges. A series of hooks are evenly spaced laterally below the top lip . The hooks project forwardly and then upwardly. . Although illustrate one embodiment of the present invention including a series of five hooks laterally spaced below the top edge it is contemplated that the number of hooks can be more or less than five preferably three to seven hooks and more preferably four to six hooks. Also the shape length style and angle relative to the back support of the hooks may vary depending on the amount of upholstery on the cushion assembly and the shape of the back support . In one embodiment it is contemplated that the center hook would be longer than the remaining hooks. In an alternative embodiment the center hook is the longest with the hooks adjacent to the left and right of the center hook being shorter than the center hook and the remaining hooks being the shortest. In a preferred embodiment the hooks are all the same length and are angled about 15 to about 20 degrees relative to the back support . A hook on the right and left sides of the upper section adjacent to the side lip of the upper section projects upwardly and then inwardly toward the middle of the upper section. In an alternative embodiment the hooks may project upwardly and outwardly. Adjacent to hooks are ribs . The ribs are generally parallel to the side lip . When force is applied to the sides of the cushion assembly the ribs prevent the cushion assembly from disengaging from the back support.

The inside face of the back support also includes a pair of alignment stops and a pair of wave ridges . The wave ridges are generally in the shape of a cosine or sine wave and allow for smooth and fluid adjustment of the lumbar assembly . The alignment stops and wave ridges are in the lower section of the back support and extend into a lower portion of the upper section . The wave ridges terminate at a horizontal stop . The area between the alignment stop and the wave ridges defines a first vertical band . The first vertical band is in the lower section of the back support and extends into a lower portion of the upper section and includes a ramp and two vertical lips . The two vertical lips provide support to the back support . The height of the ramp is greatest at the bottom and gradually reduces to the height of the two vertical lips at the top of the first vertical band . The area between the wave ridges and the sides of the lower section of the back support define a second vertical band . The second vertical band is in the lower section of the back support and extends into a lower portion of the upper section . Within the second vertical band are apertures which are used to fasten the back support to the lower back frame . Above the apertures are a first recess and a second recess . The first recess is in the lower section of the back support and the second recess is in the upper section of the back support . The first recess is defined as an indentation within the second vertical band . As illustrated in the first recess is rectangular however it is contemplated that the first recess can be square or circular in shape. The first recess includes an aperture for attaching the clip discussed further below to the lower section of the back support . Alternatively the clip may be integral with the back support or may be attached to the inner shell rendering the aperture optional. When attached to the back support a flange of the clip is disposed within the first recess and the remaining portion of the clip is disposed within the second recess . .

On the outside face of the back support the side and bottom edges of the lower section include a channel shaped flange and and apertures and and . As shown in on the side edges of the lower section apertures are located within a recess . To attach the lower frame to the back support the inside face of the lower back frame is placed in contact with the lower section of the outside face of the hack support such that the overlap flange on the lower frame and channel shaped flange and on the back support mate to form an overlap joint. See . The overlap flanges of the uprights and the cross piece and the channel shaped flanges of the back support mate to form a U shaped overlap joint. Fastening means such as screws are inserted through apertures and and anchored in the apertured bosses . The resulting overlap joint formed on the bottom edge of the back support is illustrated in . On the side edges of the outside face of the back support the overlap flange of the lower back frame mates with the channel shaped flange of the back support to form an overlap joint including a box beam . The box beam provides additional structural support to the lower section of the back support. Notably this overlap joint configuration allows for variations in manufacturing tolerances of the lower back frame and back support thereby facilitating assembly of the back construction .

As illustrated in in one embodiment of the present invention a vertically adjustable lumbar assembly is positioned between the cushion assembly and the back support . Referring to the lumbar assembly is vertically adjustable to provide optimal comfort to a seated user and includes a lumbar frame including a transition shell a lumbar device support including side handles and a lumbar device including lumbar energy wires . The transition shell includes slits which extend from near a transition shell upper edge to a transition shell lower edge to form vertical strips . In another embodiment the transition shell is not a part of the lumbar frame but rather is separate and attached to the wires of the lumber device . The lumbar device support includes a first vertical flange which projects outwardly from the lower portion of the lumbar frame and a second vertical flange which is oriented approximately perpendicular to the first vertical flange . Projecting outwardly from the second vertical flange are handles . The second vertical flange also includes fastening apertures for attaching the lumbar device to the lumbar device support . The lumbar device support also includes openings located where the first and second vertical flanges and intersect to form a corner.

The lumbar device includes a pair of lumbar energy wire retainers and in which a plurality of flexible lumbar energy wires are held in a horizontal position. In a preferred embodiment the length of the lumbar energy wires are longer than a distance D between the wire retainers and such that the wires slightly bend when placed in the wire retainers. See . The slightly bent wires form a curved surface which when the lumbar device is attached to the lumbar frame pushes in the direction of the back support of the back construction to provide active lumbar support. Also in this embodiment the wires exert an outward force on the wire retainers and which facilitates contact between tabs and the wave ridges . In alternative embodiments the curved surface can be formed using a center vertical strap spanning the front of the wires a central vertical strap wrapped around the lumbar assembly or a tensioning element placed in front or back of the lumbar assembly which includes a plurality of loops wrapped around the wires . As the strap or tensioning element is tightened the wires will push in toward the back support.

Referring to and the lumbar energy wire retainers and include a convex front surface a rear surface an outside side surface and an inside side surface . The convex front surface includes apertures used in attaching the lumbar device to the lumbar device support and wells for holding the lumbar energy wires in the lumbar retainers and . Preferably the front surface includes four wells however if is contemplated that the front surface could include three or more wells. As presently configured each well includes a pair of lumbar energy wires . The pair of horizontal wires are formed using a single wire bent into the shape of a rectangle with one end of the rectangle including the two ends of the wire. To facilitate assembly of the lumbar device the two ends of the wire may be connected by means such as resistance welding. However alternatively the ends may be left separated. One end of the rectangle is positioned in a well of wire retainer with the opposite end of the rectangle positioned in an opposite well of wire retainer . In another embodiment of the present invention one or more single wires may be positioned in a given well however this is not preferred. When using individual wires the ends of the wires are attached to the wire retainers by means of a hook which increases the depth of the wire retainers.

The rear surface of wire retainers and is slidably engaged to the ramp of the back support . Notably the rear surface and the ramp are concentric which allows the lumbar device to remain engaged with the ramp when the device is vertically adjusted. This concentric configuration prevents the formation of gaps between the lumbar assembly and back support thereby providing smooth adjustment of lumbar support. The rear surface also includes tabular flanges . The tabular flanges are on both ends of the rear surface and extend inward. The tabular flanges provide structural stability to the wire retainers and . When the lumbar assembly is in contact with the back support the tabular flanges abut the alignment stops of the back support . The rear surface also includes apertured bosses used in attaching the lumbar device to the lumbar device support . The outside surface of the pair of wire retainers includes oppositional detents . The detents include tabs which slidably engage the wave ridges to hold the lumbar assembly in a selected position.

As assembled the wire retainers and are positioned under the lumbar device support . A fastening means is inserted through apertures and apertures and into apertured bosses . One end of a rectangle providing a pair of lumbar energy wires are positioned in a well of the lumbar wire retainer . The pair of horizontal lumbar energy wires pass through an opening in the lumbar device support extend across the lumbar device support pass through an opening on the opposite side of the lumbar device support allowing the second end of the rectangle providing the pair of lumbar energy wires to be positioned in a well of the lumbar wire retainer positioned under the opposite side of the lumbar device support. The lower edge of the vertical strips of the transition shell is positioned on top of the uppermost lumbar energy wires . To vertically adjust the lumbar assembly a user engages at least one handle preferably two handles and moves the handle in either an upward or downward direction. As noted above the wire retainers are slidably engaged to ramp of the back support . As the lumbar assembly is adjusted upward the wire retainers also slidably engage vertical lips . The tabs on wire retainers and slidably engage the wave ridges on the back support to hold the lumbar assembly in a select position. Vertical adjustment of the lumbar assembly is limited in an upward direction by the horizontal stop on the back support and in a downward direction by the lower end of the ramp . The transition shell upper edge slides between the back support and the cushion assembly when the lumbar assembly is adjusted vertically. Notably the transition shell allows the horizontal wires of the lumbar device to slide vertically between the cushion assembly and the back support without objectionable friction. The transition shell also distributes stress across the horizontal wires .

The cushion assembly includes a cover assembly similar to the cover assembly disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 220 661 issued Apr. 24 2001 entitled CHAIR BACK AND METHOD OF ASSEMBLY the entire contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety by reference for its teachings a cushion and an inner shell . The cover assembly includes an upholstery front panel and a rear panel forming a sock that can be inverted and pulled upwardly onto the cushion and inner shell as the cover assembly is inverted. The rear panel includes a fabric section which hangs downwardly from the front panel and has a strip of stiff material sewn along its lower edge to form a stiffened edge flange. The strip of stiff material such as polyethylene and is generally in the shape of an inverted J . See . The stiffened edge flange can be pressed or zipped into and frictionally retained in a horizontal recess of the lower back frame .

The cushion comprises a polyethylene terephthalate PETE matting preferably including recycled content or alternatively polyurethane foam and includes a rear surface shaped to mateably receive the inner shell .

The inner shell comprises a polypropylene panel and is adhered to the cushion as needed to maintain the stability of the cushion assembly . As illustrated in the inner shell includes a top section and side perimeter bands and a bottom perimeter band that extend down the side edges and along the bottom of the inner shell which define an opening . The inner shell also includes evenly spaced apertures including an overhang across the top that correspond to hooks and an aperture including an overhang located on the upper left and upper right portions of the inner shell which correspond to hooks . . The front side of the bottom perimeter band includes ridges and valleys . . The ridges and valleys provide structural support to the inner shell . On the rear side of the inner shell illustrated in adjacent to apertures are ribs . The ribs are parallel to the side edges of the inner shell . A pair of horizontal ribs connect the overhang and the rib . The horizontal ribs provide structural support to the overhang and ribs . As illustrated in when the back construction is assembled ribs on the inside face of the back support and ribs on the rear side of the inner shell are parallel and abut longitudinally. This configuration prevents the sides of the cushion assembly from excessively pulling in towards the center of the back construction and causing gaps between the cushion assembly and back support.

The top section of the inner shell may also include slits which extend upwardly from the opening and terminate below apertures . The area between the slits defines a flap . The slits and flap enhance the flexibility of the inner shell. The inner shell also includes two or more apertures on the side perimeter bands and an associated hook adjacent an aperture extending downwardly and outwardly from each aperture . Preferably the inner shell includes two apertures and hooks however it is contemplated that the inner shell may include more than two apertures and hooks . Notably the hooks extending from each aperture are oriented perpendicular to the hooks located across the top of the back support . The hooks can be oriented in an outboard or inboard direction preferably an outboard direction. This configuration prevents the hooks in the back construction from disconnection caused by the application of forces on the chair during use. In an alternative embodiment the more than two apertures and hooks may be on the back support .

A clip is attached to the back support as illustrated in . In another embodiment it is contemplated that the clip is not connected to the back support by means of fasteners but rather the clip is a part of and integral with the back support. In yet another embodiment the clip may be either attached or integral with the inner shell . The clip is preferably made of steel but may also be composed of any stiff metal or plastic material. The clip includes a main body portion and a side flange . When the clip is attached to the back support or inner shell the clip also includes a fastening flange . As illustrated the main body portion includes a side edge and an angled edge and is in approximately the same plane as the fastening flange . The main body portion and fastening flange are connected by a bent portion . The geometry of the bent portion may vary depending on the construction of the back support or inner shell . The fastening flange includes an aperture through which a fastening means attaches the clip to the back support . Where the clip is integral with the back support or inner shell the bent portion and the fastening flange are optional. An edge of the main body portion abuts an edge of the side flange. The side flange is approximately perpendicular to the main body portion and includes at least one angled ramp . In a preferred embodiment the clip includes two or more angled ramps . The side flange also includes at least one stop where the width of the side flange is greatest and at least one indentation located between a stop and a subsequent angled ramp where the width of the side flange narrows and an end portion . Preferably the side flange includes two or more stops and indentations . As noted above the clip may be attached to or integral with either the back support or inner shell . When the clip attaches to the back support the fastening flange of the clip is placed into the first recess allowing the remainder of the clip namely the main body portion and side flange to be disposed within the second recess and then a fastening means is inserted through the aperture of the fastening flange and into the fastening aperture of the back support . . When disposed within the second recess the main body side edge abuts the back support lip .

To assemble the back construction first the clip is attached to the back support as discussed above or alternatively attached to the inner shell . Where the clip is integral with the back support or inner shell this step is not necessary. Next for a chair including a lumber assembly the lumbar assembly is positioned over the back support such that the wire retainers and are positioned on the ramps the tabular flanges abut the alignment stops and the tabs on the wire retainers are slidably engaged with the wave ridges on the back support . . Alternatively the lumbar assembly can be positioned over the back support first and then the clips attached to the back support. If the chair does not include a lumbar assembly this step is not necessary.

Next the cushion assembly including the inner shell is positioned above the back support and optionally the lumbar assembly . . By moving the cushion assembly downward over the back support the hooks slide through the clips . . In particular a lower hook of the inner shell passes through the angled edge and the uppermost angled ramp of the clip until the lower hook reaches a stop . Notably the angled edge and the angled ramp allow each hook to slide easily through the clip . The stop suspends forward movement of the hook to allow positioning of the cushion assembly back support and optionally the lumbar assembly . The stop makes it difficult but not impossible for the hook to move backward to allow disassembly of the back construction if desired. Partial assembly positioning of the hooks on the back support through the apertures on the inner shell is accomplished when an associated hook reaches an indentation . Where the inner shell includes two apertures and hooks assembly of the back construction includes three stages. Once the cushion assembly back support and optionally the lumbar assembly are positioned as desired first stage application of additional downward force will cause the hook to pass through the stop to reach the indentation . As each hook slides through the upholstery attachment clip the assembler is able to first place hooks located on the upper left and upper light portions of the back support through apertures located on the upper left and upper right portions of the inner shell second stage and then place hooks across the top of the back support through apertures across the top of the inner shell third stage . . Forward movement of the hooks is finally stopped when the end portion of the clip is reached. As the number of hooks increases the possible number of assembly stages also increases. Where the clip is attached to or integral with the inner shell and the back support includes the more than two apertures and hooks assembly of the back construction is similar to that discussed above.

Referring to the base includes a center hub a leg assembly having a plurality of radially extending legs and a leg cover adapted to cover the legs inside the center hub is a cylinder which is attached to a control housing . The legs include a vertical tube section at the leg outer end for receiving a pintle of a caster . The leg outer end has a concave shape to mateably engage tire vertical tube section thereby partially encircling the vertical tube section . In a preferred embodiment the vertical tube section is welded to the leg outer end . The legs also each have a top surface divided by a weld along its centerline and have an aperture offset to one side of the centerline near the leg outer end of the respective legs.

The apertures have an oblong shape and each side includes two tines that extend about one third to one half of the way into the aperture . The tines on each side are spaced apart so that they define a space for receiving a respective boss but so that the fines frictionally engage the sides of the boss to prevent its removal. By locating the apertures offset to one side of the tubular section of legs the complete apertures can be preformed in the sheet metal before forming the tube and therefore the apertures can be more accurately formed. Also the weld line in the tube does not have to skip or avoid the apertures . Also the weld line can be located in a symmetrical location on the tubular section so that the forming and welding processes for forming the tubular legs are more consistent and controllable. The leg cover includes reinforcement ribs that stiffen side flanges of the leg cover .

As shown in the control housing includes a primary energy mechanism and a top plate . The primary energy mechanism is similar to that disclosed in co assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 991 291 filed Feb. 1 2005 entitled BACK CONSTRUCTION FOR SEATING UNIT HAVING SPRING BIAS the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for its teachings. The mechanism includes an elongated horizontal tab across the front of the mechanism and a pin on each side of the mechanism. The top plate includes a slit across the front of the plate . On each side of the top plate is an aperture and a fixed side support to which the armrest is attached. To attach the top plate to the primary energy mechanism the horizontal tab is inserted into slit . The top plate is then pivoted such that the aperture on the top plate is aligned with the pin on the mechanism. The pin is then inserted through the aperture.

It is to be understood that variations and modifications can be made on the aforementioned structure without departing from the concepts of the present invention and further it is to be understood that such concepts are intended to be covered by the following claims unless these claims by their language expressly state otherwise.

