---

title: System and method for obtaining responses to tasks
abstract: A method of automatically forwarding a response to a message to the sender of the message, wherein the sender is prompted to provide a message, the sender is prompted to identify a recipient, the recipient having a plurality of associated contact numbers, a user is prompted to rank the identified associated contact numbers relating to the recipient from highest to lowest, the message is sent to the highest ranked associated contact number to which the message has not yet been sent, the recipient of the message is prompted to provide a reply to the message, at least a predetermined amount of time is waited, until a response is received or the message has been sent to all associated contact numbers, the message is repeatedly sent to the next highest ranked associated contact number (and the recipient is prompted and the predetermined amount of time is waited), and the response is forwarded to the sender.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868769&OS=08868769&RS=08868769
owner: 
number: 08868769
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070131
---
This is a division of co pending application No. 09 666 509 filed Sep. 20 2000 incorporated herein by reference which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 189 089 filed Mar. 14 2000.

Individuals frequently desire to obtain short answers to simple questions yet spend an inordinate amount of time obtaining such answers. For example an individual may desire to determine whether one or more other people are available for a meeting at a specified time and place or whether one or more people are in favor of a previously distributed proposal. Placing one or more telephone calls to the other person or persons manually involves with respect to each person to be called retrieving the telephone number dialing the telephone number exchanging pleasantries possibly discussing items on the other party s agenda stating the question or message and possibly restating it if the other party does not Immediately understand it or is inattentive and receiving an answer or being told that the other party will call back later with an answer . If the other party does not take the telephone call the individual may need to repeat the call at a later time if the other party fails to respond to a message or has no means of taking a message at that number. The end result is the expenditure of a great deal of time and effort to communicate a brief message and receive a simple response. Moreover if multiple parties must be contacted the effort must be duplicated with respect to each such party.

E mail provides some time savings if each party to be contacted has a known e mail address in that extraneous discussions may be minimized or ignored. However e mail messages are easier to ignore than telephone calls if actually answered and may result in the need to send a substantial number of follow up messages to obtain the needed information. Moreover some individuals do not regularly check their e mail accounts for messages. A method of automatically sending messages and obtaining responses and sending follow up messages if no reply is received is therefore desirable.

A second problem with manual placement of telephone calls or other messages is that many individuals possess a number of contact numbers such as home office and mobile telephone numbers pager numbers home and office facsimile numbers and home and office e mail addresses. Sending a message to each contact number of an individual until the individual answers can be a time consuming process. A method of automatically retransmitting a message to each such contact number until a response is received would therefore be desirable.

A third problem is that an individual who needs to send a single message to and receive a reply from a group of individuals using more than one channel of communication such as telephone facsimile and e mail must repeatedly provide the message in oral or written form and must manually tabulate the replies of the message recipients. A method of automatically sending a single message to a group of people utilizing more than one channel of communication without the need for repetitive entry of the message is therefore desirable.

Similarly receiving telephone calls from multiple callers regarding a single subject such as telephone calls from the users of a new product regarding their assessments of the new product can involve considerable time and effort. The party receiving the calls needs to indentify the caller and the subject of the call as well as to receive the caller s comments. The caller may not have all of the required information available at the time of an initial telephone call requiring a subsequent telephone call to provide all of the information or may provide extraneous comments thereby extending the length of the call. A method of automatically receiving such telephone calls and compiling the data received would therefore be desirable.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a method of automatically forwarding a response to a message to the sender of the message wherein the sender is prompted to provide a message the sender is prompted to identify a recipient the recipient having a plurality of associated contact numbers a user is prompted to rank the identified associated contact numbers relating to the recipient from highest to lowest the message is sent to the highest ranked associated contact number to which the message has not yet been sent the recipient of the message is prompted to provide a reply to the message at least a predetermined amount of time is waited until a response is received or the message has been sent to all associated contact numbers the message is repeatedly sent to the next highest ranked associated contact number and the recipient is prompted and the predetermined amount of time is waited and the response is forwarded to the sender.

In another embodiment the call time of the sender is less than the call time of the recipient. In yet another embodiment the call time of the sender is less than the call time of the sender would have been had the sender communicated with the recipient by multi party telephone call. In certain embodiments the channel of communication utilized by the recipient for sending the response is the same as the channel of communication utilized by the sender for sending the message while in other embodiments the channel of communication utilized by the recipient for sending the response is different from the channel of communication utilized by the sender for sending the message. In various embodiments the channel of communication utilized by the sender for sending the message is e mail paging automated telephone call facsimile postal mail other forms of communication or any combination of such forms of communication.

In another embodiment the method further includes prompting the recipient to reply to the telephone call at a later time if the automated telephone call is connected but no response to the message is received.

In another embodiment the method further includes repeating the method with respect to additional recipients of the same message.

In various embodiments each response is forwarded separately to the sender the responses from different recipients are forwarded separately or responses from several recipients are forwarded together. In certain embodiments responses forwarded together are forwarded as a composite report. In one embodiment the composite report comprises a listing of each successful message transmission. In another embodiment the composite report instead or in addition comprises a listing of each response. In another embodiment the composite report instead or in addition comprises summary data relating to all of the responses.

In another embodiment the method further includes prompting the current recipient to indicate whether to send the current recipient s response to the other recipients of the sender s message and sending the current recipient s response to the other recipients of the sender s message if the current recipient indicates that the response should be sent to the other recipients.

In another embodiment the user prompted to rank the plurality of associated contact numbers is the sender. In another embodiment the user prompted to rank the plurality of associated contact numbers is the recipient. In another embodiment the user prompted to rank the plurality of associated contact numbers is neither the sender nor the recipient.

In another embodiment if the user fails to provide a ranking of associated contact numbers a default ranking is used.

In another embodiment the method further includes prompting a user to rank the associated contact numbers relating to the identified recipient from highest to lowest in a second ordering and to supply a condition wherein if the user does so provide a second ranking the ordering utilized is selected based on the condition. In another embodiment the condition comprises a criterion relating to the time of day at which the message is being sent. In another embodiment the condition comprises a criterion relating to the day of the week on which the message is being sent. In another embodiment the condition comprises a criterion relating to the identity of the sender. In another embodiment the condition comprises a criterion relating to the content of the message.

In another embodiment the method further includes prompting a user to provide an expiration time for at least one associated contact number wherein if the expiration time of an associated contact number has passed prior to the sending of a message using the associated contact number such associated contact number is not utilized.

In another embodiment the method further includes prompting a user to provide a commencement time for at least one associated contact number wherein if the sending of a message occurs prior to the commencement time of an associated contact number the associated contact number is not utilized.

In another embodiment the method further includes prompting a user to provide a start time wherein if a user provides a start time the sending of the message is delayed until the start time.

In another embodiment the predetermined amount of time is equal to zero seconds. In another embodiment the predetermined amount of time exceeds zero seconds. In another embodiment the predetermined amount of time depends on the channel of communication used for sending the message. In another embodiment the method further includes prompting a user to provide an amount of time wherein if the user provides an amount of time the predetermined amount of time is equal to the amount of time provided by the user.

In another embodiment the method further includes converting a verbal message provided by the sender into textual form.

In another embodiment the method further includes converting a verbal response provided by the recipient into textual form.

In another embodiment the sender is prompted to provide a message over the Web such prompting includes prompting the sender to provide a message subject a message body one or more prompts to be provided to the recipient a type of data to be collected and a message to be provided if the message is sent by telephone call and the telephone call is answered by a voicemail system the response of the recipient to the message is received using automatic speech recognition if the message is sent to a telephone number a searchable address book is provided to the sender and the sending of the message includes in the case of a message being sent to an associated contact number that includes a telephone extension automatically dialing both the telephone number and the telephone extension.

In another embodiment if the transmission of a message using an associated contact number is not successful the message is retransmitted to the same associated contact number until the message is successfully transmitted to the associated contact number or until a predetermined number of transmissions have been unsuccessful.

In another embodiment the method further includes prompting the recipient to indicate the recipient s response is urgent wherein if the recipient indicates that the response is urgent the response is sent to the sender within a predetermined amount of time.

In another embodiment the method further includes prompting a user to contact an operator wherein the operator has access to data relating to the sender s message.

In another embodiment the message provided by the sender comprises a plurality of questions and the recipient is prompted to provide an answer to each question in the sender s message.

In another embodiment a method of automatically forwarding a response to a message to the sender of the message wherein a message and a ranked set of associated contact numbers are received from the sender the message is sent to the recipient at the highest ranked associated contact number to which the message can be successfully sent a reply to the message is received from the recipient and the response is forwarded to the sender.

In another embodiment a system for automatically forwarding a response to a message to the sender of the message including means for prompting the sender to provide a message means for prompting the sender to identify a recipient the recipient having a plurality of associated contact numbers means for prompting a user to rank the associated contact numbers relating to the recipient identified by the sender from highest to lowest means for sending the message provided by the sender to the highest ranked associated contact number to which the message has not yet been sent means for prompting the recipient of the message to provide a reply to the message means for waiting at least a predetermined amount of time means for repeatedly sending the message provided by the sender to the highest ranked associated contact number to which the message has not yet been sent prompting the recipient of the message to provide a reply to the message and waiting at least a predetermined amount of time until a response is received or the message has been sent to all associated contact numbers if no response to the message is received and means for forwarding the response to the sender.

In another embodiment a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions for prompting the sender to provide a message prompting the sender to identify a recipient the recipient having a plurality of associated contact numbers prompting a user to rank the associated contact numbers relating to the recipient from highest to lowest sending the provided message to the highest ranked associated contact number to which the message has not yet been sent prompting the recipient of the message to provide a reply to the message waiting at least a predetermined amount of time repeatedly sending the message to the next highest ranked associated contact number until a response is received or the message has been sent to all associated contact numbers and prompting the recipient to provide a response and waiting a predetermined amount of time if no response to the message has been received and forwarding the response to the sender.

In another embodiment a system for automatically forwarding a response to a message to the sender of the message including a processor a memory connected to the processor at least one communication interface in communication with the processor a display in communication with the processor and an input device in communication with the processor wherein the processor causes the sender to be prompted to provide a message the processor causes the sender to be prompted to identify a recipient the recipient having a plurality of associated contact numbers the processor causes a user to be prompted to rank the associated contact numbers relating to the identified recipient from highest to lowest the processor causes the message to be sent to the highest ranked associated contact number to which the message has not yet been sent the processor causes the recipient of the message to be prompted to provide a reply to the message the processor waits at least a predetermined amount of time the processor repeatedly causes the message provided by the sender to be sent to the highest ranked associated contact number to which the message has not yet been sent the processor causes the recipient of the message to be prompted to provide a reply to the message and the processor waits at least a predetermined amount of time until a response is received or the message has been sent to all associated contact numbers if no response to the message is received and the processor causes the response to be forwarded to the sender.

In various embodiments the communication interface comprises an Internet connection a facsimile device a telephone connection or voice recognition code.

In various embodiments the input device comprises a keypad a microphone a keyboard or a pointing device.

In another embodiment the system further includes at least one database stored in the memory. In another embodiment the at least one database comprises at least one table for storing associated contact numbers at least one table for storing unsent messages and at least one table for storing data relating to expected responses to messages.

In another embodiment a method of processing messages wherein each of a plurality of users is prompted to send a message using one of a plurality of interfaces including at least a telephone interface and an e mail interface a recipient is prompted to select an interface by which messages are to be forwarded to the recipient from a plurality of interfaces including at least a telephone interface and an e mail interface and each message sent by the plurality of users is forwarded to the recipient utilizing the selected interface.

In another embodiment a method of processing inbound and outbound messages wherein an inbound recipient is prompted to provide at least one associated contact number a sender is prompted to provide a message the sender is prompted to identify a recipient the recipient having at least one associated contact number and the message is sent to at least one associated contact number wherein if the message is an outbound message the sender is prompted to provide the message over the Web and wherein if the message is an inbound message the recipient is prompted to provide at least one associated contact number. In one embodiment the identified recipient is the inbound recipient. In another embodiment the recipient is an outbound recipient.

In another embodiment a method of processing inbound messages wherein a sender is prompted to provide a message in voice form the sender is prompted to identify a recipient the recipient having at least one associated contact number the message provided by the sender is converted to text form and the message is sent to at least one associated contact number.

In another embodiment a method of processing outbound messages wherein a sender is prompted to provide a message in voice form the sender is prompted to identify a recipient the recipient having at least one associated contact number the message provided by the sender is converted to text form and the message is sent to at least one associated contact number.

In another embodiment a method of automatically forwarding a response to a message to the sender of the message wherein a sender is prompted to provide a message the sender is prompted to identify a recipient a telephone call is placed to the recipient the message and a set of prompts are provided to the recipient if the recipient answers the telephone call a message including a telephone number to call back if the telephone call is answered by a voicemail system is automatically recorded and the message and a set of prompts are provided to the recipient if the recipient places a telephone call to the provided telephone number.

In another embodiment a method of processing outbound messages wherein a sender is prompted to provide a message the sender is prompted to identify a recipient the recipient having at least one associated contact number the sender is prompted to customize at least one of the time at which the message will be sent the text of at least one prompt the number of prompts in the set of prompts to be provided to the recipient the number of iterations of the set of prompts and the type of data to be received in response to at least one prompt the message is sent to at least one associated contact number and at least one prompt is provided to the recipient.

In another embodiment the method further includes validating data received in response to a prompt provided based at least in part on a received data type relating to the prompt.

In another embodiment a method of processing inbound messages wherein a sender is prompted to provide a message the sender is prompted to identify a recipient the recipient having at least one associated contact number the recipient is prompted to customize at least one of the text of at least one prompt the number of prompts in the set of prompts to be provided to the sender the number of iterations of the set of prompts and the type of data to be received in response to at least one prompt at least one prompt is provided to the sender and the message is sent to at least one associated contact number.

In another embodiment the method further includes validating data received in response to a prompt based at least in part on a data type relating to the received prompt.

In yet another embodiment the invention relates to a method and system for performing a task via a computer network. Means are provided for receiving a request to perform a task from a task assigner via at least one first communication medium converting the request from the at least one first communication medium to digital text using the text to determine the task requesting additional information if required to complete the task performing the task via a host and data in a computer network and responding to a recipient with information from the completed task via at least one second communication medium. In various forms of this invention the request includes contact information for network hosts databases and recipients. The first and second communication mediums may be different or the same. The communication mediums may be speech communication via a public service telephone system or an IP network. The communication mediums may be via a landline phone a mobile phone email a fax a pager or a database.

The contact information may be used to determine the task and wherein the contact information is obtained from at least one of the network hosts databases and recipients. The step for determining the task may include querying a database and or a remote host. The task can be changed during the execution of the task.

The conversion step may include translating speech to text. The invention may also include the step of converting the information from the completed task into the second communication medium which may also include translating text to speech.

In one preferred version of the invention the task assigner and the recipient includes a plurality of concurrent task assigners and recipients. The task assigner may even be the recipient.

The following terms shall have for the purposes of this application the respective meanings set forth below 

Associated Contact Number An identifier relating to a particular message recipient used to address a message to that recipient such as a telephone pager or facsimile number or an e mail address. In a preferred embodiment the associated contact number includes both the identifier itself such as a telephone number or an e mail address and a designation of the type of the identifier such as telephone number or e mail .

Call Time With respect to a message sender the call time is the amount of time spent by the sender in speaking typing or otherwise entering a message and in reading listening to or otherwise reviewing a response thereto if any . With respect to a message recipient the call time is the amount of time spent by the recipient in reading listening to or otherwise reviewing the message and in speaking typing or otherwise entering a response thereto if any response is entered .

Channel of Communication A medium for sending a message or a response thereto in analog digital or other form such as e mail page live telephone call automated telephone call using a recorded or computer generated voice message or facsimile.

Communication Interface Hardware software or a combination of hardware and software enabling a processor to receive and send messages using one or more channels of communication.

Current Recipient In connection with the method illustrated in the recipient to whom a message is currently being sent.

Message An oral written recorded or other communication uttered sent or otherwise transmitted from one person to one or more other persons. The term message includes without limitation a live recorded or computer generated voice message as well as written or otherwise recorded textual or graphical content and can optionally be encrypted or otherwise protected. Specific examples of a message within the context of the present application include without limitation a statement or question uttered in a multi party telephone call a statement or question entered using instant messaging a groupware or meeting support tool or in a chat room a recorded or computer generated voice message textual or graphical content delivered by e mail or by pager textual or graphical content delivered by facsimile or textual or graphical content in hard copy form such as paper delivered by postal mail hand delivery or otherwise.

Unsuccessful A message is considered to be unsuccessful if it is not delivered. The success of a message does not depend on whether the recipient responds to the message or even whether the recipient gains personal knowledge of the message. A telephone call is considered to be unsuccessful if the call does not connect e.g. no dial tone a busy signal or no answer after a predetermined number of rings . A telephone call is considered to be successful if answered by a voice mail system or answering machine or by a person other than the recipient at the intended telephone number e.g. a coworker or family member . An e mail message is considered to be successful if delivered to the recipient s e mail account regardless of whether the recipient actually views the e mail message.

User Any person who sends or receives a message or who enters data regarding a message a recipient or a sender. The term user includes but is not limited to senders and recipients.

Provisional application 60 189 089 filed Mar. 14 2000 which describes certain embodiments of the present invention is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety as fully as though set forth here at length.

Referring to a block diagram of a system in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. Server includes processor and memory connected to processor . Server can be a microcomputer including a personal computer workstation or server minicomputer mainframe computer or other computing device but is preferably a multiprocessor server. Processor can be one or more Intel Pentium family or equivalent processors but is preferably at least two 800 megahertz Intel Pentium III microprocessors. Although a single or lesser processor can be utilized doing so would slow system performance or decrease the number of messages that could be simultaneously handled. Memory can be permanent storage such as a hard drive temporary memory such as random access memory or a combination of permanent storage and temporary memory. Memory is typically at least 128 megabytes of random access memory and at least one hard drive although multiple redundant hard drives are desirable in order to decrease the likelihood of data loss from a hardware failure.

Message software is stored in memory . Message software can be written in C utilizing object oriented methodologies and can utilize one or more application programming interfaces hereinafter API s to communicate with one or more of the interfaces described below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate however that many alternative programming languages such as Assembly C Java or Pascal can be substituted for C and alternative methodologies can be utilized such as structured programming depending in part on the choice of programming language or vice versa . Database is optionally used in conjunction with message software . Database can be Oracle version 8 or any suitable custom or commercial off the shelf relational object oriented or other database. Alternatively data used by message software can be stored in other memory structures such as flat files and data management functionality can be incorporated into message software . Message software and database are described in greater detail below in connection with and tables 1 through 7.

In certain embodiments of the present invention operator terminal can optionally be utilized to provide a human operator access to certain message and related data. If operator terminal is used it is in communication with server through a local or wide area network connection such as an Ethernet connection through a telephonic connection or by other means such as a non telephonic Internet connection . Operator terminal which can be a personal computer or other microcomputer dumb terminal network computer Internet appliance mainframe computer microcomputer or other computing device includes at least display such as a cathode ray tube monitor or liquid crystal display and input device such as a keyboard. Alternatively operator terminal can be dispensed with or combined with server so long as server includes a display and an input device .

Processor is also in communication with one or more interfaces . The one or more interfaces can include any or all of telephone interface e mail interface facsimile interface wireless interface paging interface and Web interface as well as other interfaces. Telephone interface can include a digital signal processing card such as the Anteras card available from the Dialogic corporation and digital signal processing software including speech recognition libraries such as Speechworks from the Phillips corporation. E mail interface can be an ip connection such as a T 1 or T 3 line. Facsimile interface can include a fax board however if facsimile traffic is expected to be relatively light a commercial off the shelf software program such as Winfax Pro from the Symantec corporation can be utilized instead. Wireless interface can include dedicated wireless reception facilities in a first preferred embodiment however no separate wireless interface is utilized and wireless calls are received using telephone interface . Similarly paging interface can include dedicated page reception facilities but in a first preferred embodiment no such facilities are utilized and pages are received utilizing telephone interface . Web interface can include an ip connection such as a T 1 or T 3 line.

Referring to the relationship between selected components of message software and database in an exemplary implementation are illustrated. Sender accesses the system using an Internet protocol hereinafter ip connection or public switched telephone network hereinafter pstn connection . Either or both of ip connection and pstn connection can be utilized in a system in accordance with the present invention. Moreover although a connection is described as an ip or pstn connection with respect to the character of the connection at the site of the system or a portion thereof the sender of the message can himself utilize a different type of connection. For example a sender might utilize an Internet telephone to place a call from his computer over an ip connection. This call might arrive at the system via a pstn connection. In addition other connections or receptors might be present. For example the system might include a wireless receiver.

User interface can include a set of Web pages written in html and Javascript perl or other Web development language. Several Web pages utilized in an exemplary implementation of the present invention are illustrated in FIGS. A through  . Alternatively other content viewable using a Web or other browser can be utilized or a Windows or other interface such as a terminal emulator interface can be utilized. User interface includes interface elements such as text boxes dropdown list boxes command buttons menus and command line prompts depending on the style of user interface implemented to allow the sender to enter information about himself about recipients and about messages and to view the results of the attempted transmission of a message.

User manager provides much of the functionality for initiating processing of information submitted by the sender and can include sub modules such as registration manager logon manager contact manager and message manager . Registration manager receives data such as any or all of a sender s name address telephone number facsimile number e mail address log in name password and payment information and stores such data in user tables which are described below in tables 1 and 7. Of course user tables can be combined into a single table divided into more than two tables in certain embodiments hereunder and the information stored in user table need not be stored in a separate table or tables or any table at all if a non relational database is utilized or no database at all is utilized. Similarly the other tables described below can be divided or combined in different combinations and need not be utilized in all implementations of the present invention. Login manager authenticates the sender upon login to the system by comparing login information submitted at that time with information previously stored in user tables .

Contact manager receives data such as any or all of a recipient s name home business and mobile telephone numbers facsimile number pager number and e mail address as well as beginning and ending dates for the validity of such data times of day and days of the week on which such data is to be used and one or more orderings by which the various contact numbers are to be utilized and stores such data in acn table which is described below in table 2.

Message manager receives message information such as any or all of the text of a message the subject of the message information identifying its intended recipients information relating to when the message is to be sent and information relating to the format and method by which the replies are to be communicated to the sender and stores such information in message table which is described below in table 3. In some embodiments hereunder a single message record can be generated for each message regardless of the number of recipients of the message in other embodiments however a separate record can be generated for each recipient.

Filter periodically checks message table for messages needing processing and creates attempt records from the data stored in message table and acn table and stores the attempt records in attempt table which is described below in table 4. Dispatcher periodically checks attempts table for messages to attempt to transmit to recipients. Each such message is dispatched to the appropriate interface of the one or more interfaces which are software forming part of interfaces in . Each of interfaces formats any messages sent to it for transmission and initiates transmission of such messages. The dispatcher or the appropriate interface can monitor whether a message is successfully transmitted and can ensure that a predetermined number of attempts to send each message are made until the message is successfully sent or the attempt is regarded as a failure and an appropriate entry can be made in the attempts table . An attempt can fail due to the lack of a dial tone a busy signal the failure of a recipient to answer a call the unavailability of a server or other reasons. If the attempt fails the dispatcher can optionally extract another associated contact number from the acn table or the filter or another module can do so or can utilize a different table for such purpose and attempt to contact the recipient using the other associated contact number.

If a message is successfully transmitted the dispatcher creates an expected reply entry inn replies tables described below in tables 5 and 6. The dispatcher periodically monitors replies tables to determine whether more than a predetermined amount of time has elapsed since the underlying message was transmitted. If so dispatcher can make an entry in messages table and can optionally extract another associated contact number from the acn table or the filter or another module can do so or can utilize a different table for such purpose and attempt to contact the recipient using the other associated contact number.

If one of interfaces receives a reply from a recipient such reply is forwarded to dispatcher or another module for forwarding to the sender or compilation into a composite report.

Referring to and tables 1 through 7 a portion of an exemplary database usable in conjunction with the present invention is illustrated. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a production database would contain a greater number of tables and of fields and that the database might be fully normalized. Such details have been omitted in order to illustrate the inventive concepts of the present invention without obscuring such concepts with an excessive amount of detail.

Table Registrant illustrated below in table 1 contains information regarding senders including the name address telephone number e mail address facsimile number and payment status of each sender. It also contains references to pending message tasks relating to the sender. The latter category of information in particular might be stored in a separate table depending on the particular implementation of the present invention. Table Registrant is related to Table Registrant Security described below in table 7 in a one to one relationship and to Tables Task and Unprocessed Contact in one to many relationships with each Registrant record potentially relating to many Task or Unprocessed Contact records.

Table Task illustrated below in table 2 contains information regarding each task including references to the sender to whom it relates and the contact record to be used in sending it. It also contains the subject and text of the message. Table Task is related to Table Unprocessed Contact described below in table 4 in one to many relationships with each Task record potentially relating to many Unprocessed Contact records.

Table Contact illustrated below in table 3 contains information regarding recipients including the name telephone number and e mail address of each recipient as well as status information regarding contact attempts. Table Contact is related to Tables Expected Calls described below in table 6 and Expected Email described below in table 5 in many to one relationships with each contact record potentially relating to many Expected Calls or Expected Email records.

Table Unprocessed Contacts illustrated below in table 4 contains references to tables Task Contact and Registrant as well as information relating to the communications channel to be used in a particular contact the time when the task was created and the time when the task is to be abandoned if not earlier completed.

Table Expected Email illustrated below in table 5 contains information regarding e mail messages expected to be received in response to messages including the e mail address of the recipient and references to the Task and Contact tables.

Table Expected Calls illustrated below in table 6 contains information regarding telephone messages expected to be received in response to messages including the telephone number of the recipient and references to the Task and Contact tables.

Table Registrant Security illustrated below in table 7 contains information regarding senders that must remain secure including their usernames passwords and credit card numbers. Optionally this table can be protected by more thorough security measures than the other tables in the database.

Referring to A and B a method in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. In step a sender is prompted to provide a message. The sender can be prompted using whichever one of interfaces the sender is using to contact message software . For example the sender can access message software by calling a predetermined telephone number using a mobile telephone or a traditional landline telephone. In such a case the sender will be prompted to provide a message by the playing of a recorded message giving the sender the option to provide a message and instructions for doing so typically pressing or saying one or more numbers uttering the message and pressing or saying one or more numbers . The sender can first be prompted to identify himself by entering or saying one or more numbers or words such as a username or account number and a password or PIN. If the sender accesses message software over the Web the sender typically navigates to a predetermined Web site where the sender is so prompted by the display of a message or one or more interface elements such as text entry or memo boxes menu choices or a command line such as memo control illustrated in . In addition to prompting the sender to provide the text of a message the sender can be prompted to provide a message subject a type of data to be collected from the recipient such as yes or no answers dates dollar amounts integers or other forms of data a message to be left if the message is sent by telephone and the telephone call is answered by a voicemail system and a series of custom prompts to be provided to the recipient such as press or say one for yes two for no three for no opinion . . . .

In step which can occur before at the same time as or after step the sender is prompted to identify one or more recipients of the message. If the sender is accessing message software over the Web the user can be prompted to enter for each contact a name one or more of a telephone number e mail address or other contact number or address the order in which contact numbers should be utilized if more than one is given optionally a starting date and time when this contact number will be valid optionally an expiration date and time when this contact number will no longer be valid and optionally a delay period to elapse prior to the forwarding of the message to the recipient. In a first embodiment all such information is entered by the sender in other embodiments however other users can enter a portion or all of such information. For example each recipient can be prompted to enter his or her data which can be stored in an address book subsequently made available to the sender. Similarly in an intra company or intra organizational embodiment a system administrator or a manager can be prompted to enter all such data or merely a ranking of contact numbers entered by the recipients.

The user is prompted to enter such information by the display of a message or one or more interface elements such as text entry or memo boxes menu choices or a command line such as contact entry controls illustrated in . If the sender is accessing message software using a telephone interface the sender can be prompted to enter similar information orally or using a telephone keypad. In any case if the user has previously entered any contacts or if contacts have been imported the user can be prompted by providing the user with a searchable address book.

In step the sender is prompted to rank the associated contact numbers in the order in which the sender desires the associated contact numbers to be used in sending the message to the recipient or recipients. Typically the sender will rank the associated contact numbers only once for each recipient and will reuse such rankings from message to message although the ranking can depend on a condition such as the day of the week and the time of the day. For example a sender might choose to rank a particular recipient s associated contact numbers in the following order from highest to lowest 1 business telephone number 2 mobile telephone number 3 business e mail address 4 business facsimile number 5 home telephone number and 6 home e mail address for contacts initiated during business hours and 1 home telephone number 2 mobile telephone number 3 home e mail address 4 business facsimile number 5 business e mail address and 6 business telephone number for contacts initiated other than during business hours. The sender can be prompted to rank the associated contact numbers by presenting a list of such associated contact numbers to the sender together with a series of text entry controls into which rankings can be entered if the sender is accessing message software over the Web or by a recorded message reading such a list to the sender and offering the sender the opportunity to rank each associated contact number using a telephone keypad if the sender is accessing message software using a telephone.

In step the message is sent to the highest ranked associated contact number. The appropriate interface of interfaces formats the message for transmission depending on the type of the associated contact number. For example if the associated contact number is a telephone number a recorded message will be played to the recipient. The main body of this message will be the message recorded by the sender using a telephone the message entered by the sender using e mail after conversion to voice format using text to voice software or the message as formatted following entry by other means. Also included in the transmitted message can be any or all of a subject line a set of reply options such as yes no do not call here again and send reply message and an explanation of the messaging system. If the message is transmitted to a telephone number that includes an extension the extension will be automatically dialed. Optionally if a message is not successfully transmitted message software retransmits the message but no more than a predetermined number of times or for no longer than a predetermined period of time . The message may not be successfully transmitted if no dial tone is available a busy signal is received a telephone call is not answered an Internet resource is unavailable etc.

In step the recipient is prompted to provide a reply by the display or playing of a visual or audible set of reply options such as yes no do not call here again and send reply message . In step message software waits a predetermined amount of time which can be as little as zero seconds but typically is an amount of time deemed reasonable for the preparation of a reply to the message by the recipient. In step following the conclusion of the waiting period steps through are repeated if no response has been received by message software using the next lower ranked associated contact number until a reply is received or each associated contact number has been used without receiving a reply. In step the reply is forwarded to the sender. Typically the reply is forwarded using a communication channel previously selected by the sender. Moreover the reply can be forwarded when received or as part of a composite report forwarded periodically or after receipt of a predetermined number or percentage of replies from all recipients. A composite report can include a listing of all replies and failures to reply composite statistics regarding such data or both. An exemplary composite report is illustrated in . The method then terminates.

Referring to a second method in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. In step a sender of an inbound message is prompted to send a message. The sender is presented with one or more sets of prompts typically including questions. For example if the sender is a consumer of a product and the recipient is the product s manufacturer or a related party the prompts may include questions relating to the identity of the product demographic data relating to the consumer and the consumer s level of satisfaction with the product. If the sender is a consultant providing hours worked and the recipient is responsible for entering such information into a billing system the questions might relate to the amount of work performed a description of the type of work performed the identity of the client for whom the work was performed and the date and location at which the work was performed.

In step the recipient is prompted to select an interface by which forwarded messages are to be received by the recipient. This interface need not utilize the same medium of communications as that utilized by the sender. For example a recipient could provide multiple associated contact numbers including a telephone number and an e mail address. The recipient could nevertheless choose in step to receive all messages by e mail. Any message received from a sender calling the telephone number would be converted to text and sent as e mail to the recipient either as an individual message or as part of a composite report depending on the implementation of the present method and optionally the recipient s preferences.

In step each message is forwarded to the recipient using the selected interface. In some implementations each message is forwarded individually as it is received. In other implementations messages are forwarded periodically to the recipient as part of a composite report. This composite report can include each message in its entirety summary data relating to the messages or both the individual messages and the summary data. In yet other implementations the recipient can select whether to receive the message individually or as part of periodic composite reports or both.

Referring to a third method in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. In step an inbound recipient is optionally prompted to provide at least one associated contact number if the message being sent is an inbound message. Inbound messages can be used to provide customer feedback regarding products to collect specific information on a regular basis such as numbers of hours worked by professionals and sales figures of salesmen among other uses. Accordingly in some implementations only a single associated contact number is necessary. Additional associated contact numbers can be used to provide a choice in the medium of communication to be used such as e mail or telephone or to provide redundant alternative contact numbers to alleviate anticipated load problems. At least one associated contact number is then provided to anticipated senders of inbound messages. Step if it is performed can be performed as an initial step or at any other time prior to the performance of step .

In step an inbound recipient is optionally prompted to customize at least one of the number of prompts to be provided to a sender the text of each prompt the type of data expected to be received in response to each prompt the number of sets of such prompts and optionally other properties. Step if it is performed can be performed at any time prior to the performance of step .

In step the sender is prompted to provide a message. If the sender is the sender of an outbound message the sender can be prompted in a manner similar to that described in connection with step of the method illustrated in . If the sender is the sender of an inbound message the sender is presented with one or more sets of prompts typically including questions. For example if the sender is a consumer of a product and the recipient is the product s manufacturer or a related party the prompts may include questions relating to the identity of the product demographic data relating to the consumer and the consumer s level of satisfaction with the product. If the sender is a consultant providing hours worked and the recipient is responsible for entering such information into a billing system the questions might relate to the amount of work performed a description of the type of work performed the identity of the client for whom the work was performed and the date and location at which the work was performed.

In step an outbound sender is optionally prompted to customize if the message is an outbound message. The outbound sender can be prompted to customize one or more of when the message will be sent the number of prompts to be provided to a sender the text of each prompt the type of data expected to be received in response to each prompt the number of sets of such prompts and optionally other properties. Step if it is performed can be performed at any time prior to the performance of step .

In step a message received from the sender in voice form can optionally be converted to text form using automatic speech recognition. Prompts and other data received from the sender in voice form can also optionally be converted to text form using automatic speech recognition. If messages prompts and other data are to be used in the form received conversion is not necessary. For example a message received in voice form can be replayed without conversion if the message is to be delivered by telephone or can be stored in a .wav or other file as part of an e mail message allowing the recipient to replay the message using a computer. Of course messages can be required to be provided in text form in some embodiments eliminating the need to convert from voice to test or can be required to be provided in the form to be used eliminating the need for any conversion. If messages or prompts need to be converted from text to voice such conversion may be performed as a part of step or at another time. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that conversion of text to voice is less complicated than conversion of voice to text and can be performed with greater accuracy. Step if it is performed can be performed at any time subsequent to the receipt of the data to be converted and prior to the performance of step .

In step the sender is prompted to select a recipient. If the message is an inbound message the sender is so prompted by providing to the sender at least one associated contact number at which the sender can provide a message to the recipient. If the message is an outbound message the sender is so prompted in a manner similar to that in which the sender is so prompted in step of the method illustrated in .

In step the message is sent to at least one associated contact number. If the message is an outbound message the message can optionally be sent repeatedly to different associated contact numbers until a reply is received as described in connection with above. If the message is an inbound message the message is typically sent to only one associated contact number unless transmission of the message is unsuccessful in which case the message can be retransmitted to the same or a different associated contact number in different implementations of the present method.

In step if the message is an outbound message sent by means of a telephone call and the recipient answers the call the recipient is provided with the message and a series of prompts such as press or say one for yes press or say two for no . . . . In step if the message is an outbound message sent by means of a telephone call and a voicemail system answers the call a message is automatically recorded on the voicemail system including a telephone number for the recipient to call. For example when the telephone call is answered by a human or a machine the answering party can be prompted with an appropriate prompt e.g. push or say one to continue and the absence of a response to such a prompt can be interpreted as indicating the presence of a voicemail system in which case a message can be recorded after the detection of an appropriate voicemail tone or beep. Optionally a party other than the recipient answering a telephone call can be offered the choice of receiving a telephone number for the recipient to call by means of an appropriate answer to an appropriate prompt e.g push or say one to continue or push or say two to receive a telephone number to call back at a later time . In step if the recipient places a call to the telephone number provided in step the recipient is provided with the message and the series of prompts that would have been provided to the recipient in step had the recipient then answered the telephone call.

In step data received from an outbound recipient in response to prompts provided to the recipient are optionally validated. Step can be performed at the time that each datum is received or subsequently. The validation can be based on a data type provided by the sender in response to step . For example if the data type is date and a date data type consists of eight digits in a particular implementation with the first two digits indicating the month the next two indicating the day and the last four indicating the year a response might be checked to ensure that 1 it contained eight digits 2 that the first two digits together formed a number between one and twelve 3 that the next two digits formed a number between one and thirty one or optionally between one and twenty eight to thirty one depending on the month and 4 that the last four digits formed a number between a reasonable beginning year such as 1880 and a reasonable ending year such as 2100 . If invalid data are received the recipient may be prompted to re enter the data if validation is performed during the telephone call or the invalid data may be noted in a report supplied to the sender. After validation if any is performed any data received is forwarded to the sender. The method then terminates.

While this invention has been described with an emphasis upon preferred embodiments it will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art that variations in the preferred devices and methods can be used and that it is intended that the invention can be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications encompassed within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

