---

title: Graphical communication user interface with graphical position user input mechanism for selecting a display image
abstract: New devices, systems and methods are hereby provided that enable a user to open a communication channel by selecting an image on a monitor. A device that includes a monitor and a graphical position user input mechanism is configured to display one or more images on the monitor, to receive a graphical position user input selecting one of the images, and to open a communication channel directed to a contact information element associated with the selected image. For example, this may include placing a phone call to a selected recipient, or opening an email, instant messaging, or text message composition panel addressed to a selected recipient, by touching, clicking on, or otherwise selecting an image of the recipient, or an image that is associated with the recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08711102&OS=08711102&RS=08711102
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08711102
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070615
---
Opening a channel of contact with someone in current telephone and instant messaging is largely based on direct input of a phone number a name or a username such as by pressing or typing on buttons for individual numbers and letters or by scrolling through and selecting from a list of contacts. Such methods are often not intuitive requiring close attention to small buttons and or a screen that is often also small requiring multiple operational steps and or requiring memorization of numbers or usernames or browsing through a sometimes very long list of potential contacts. Browsing a contact list also requires a substantial amount of dedicated screen space and intensive user attention which may be found inconvenient and non intuitive by many users and which may present an undesired requirement for space and an unaesthetic presence in a household environment. Another method for opening a channel of contact is with voice recognition which sometimes interprets voice inputs inconsistently or suffers impaired performance in noisy environments.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

New devices systems and methods are hereby provided that enable a user to open a communication channel by selecting an image on a monitor. A device that includes a monitor and a graphical position user input mechanism is configured to display one or more images on the monitor to receive a graphical position user input selecting one of the images and to open a communication channel directed to a contact information element associated with the selected image. For example this may include placing a phone call to a selected recipient or opening an email instant messaging or text message composition panel addressed to a selected recipient by touching clicking on or otherwise selecting an image of the recipient or an image that is associated with the recipient.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

Communication device is configured to then respond to a user selection of one of category icons or thumbnail contact images by taking an appropriate action. Category icons represent different groups of contacts who have been sorted by how the user knows them. They include an icon of a home to represent contacts who are family members and relatives a basketball and basketball hoop to represent contacts who are personal friends and an office building to represent contacts who are professional colleagues and acquaintances in this illustrative embodiment. Any other types of categories may be defined and any other type of icons or other indicators may be used to represent them in other embodiments. User selection of one of category icons may trigger the communication device to display thumbnail contact images of specific contacts belonging to the selected category. While depicts direct images of the contact people any other type of icon or other indicator may also be used for different contacts such as a cartoon figure a computer generated avatar or any other image or indicator.

Communication device is configured to respond to a user selection of one of thumbnail contact images by opening a communication channel to the contact person depicted in other otherwise indicated by the selected image. Communication device is configured to do this in part by having a stored contact information element associated with each of the images. The contact information elements may be phone numbers email addresses instant messaging usernames text message numbers or other elements that identify a communication channel to a desired recipient. Communication device is therefore configured so that when a user selects one of the thumbnail images communication device may place a phone call or open an email instant messaging or text message composition panel addressed to a selected recipient. The user may then talk on the phone or compose and send an email instant message or text message for example to the desired recipient. Which of these communication channels is used may have a default setting or may have a default that is selected by the user. There may also be different input settings for either triggering the default communication channel or opening selectable options for what communication channel is desired. For example communication device may have a system default setting for a user selection of a contact image to trigger placing a phone call to that contact s cellphone for example or to open additional communication channel options if the user so indicates which may be by holding a finger on the contact image or tapping a contact image twice in rapid succession or pressing a display options button prior to or while touching the contact image or some other method. More about the selectable communication channels is depicted below with reference to .

Contact images may also be displayed in different modes to indicate information about the contacts. For example some of the contact images in including contact images B are highlighted or indicated in bold. This may represent for example that those contacts are currently available to communicate with. For example it may indicate that those people currently have their cellphones on or that those people currently have an available status selected on their cellphones or that those people are currently logged on and active with an instant messenger account for example.

Communication device therefore provides an intuitive and natural interface for users of any level of technical inclination to call email message text or otherwise contact someone since all the user does in this illustrative example is touch an image of the person they want to call email message text or otherwise contact.

In the case of a phone call the user s voice may be picked up by microphone while in the case of an email instant message or text message the user may enter text and or numbers with any of a variety of text input mechanisms such as a keyboard a keypad a graphics tablet a stylus or a numberpad for example. The microphone keyboard and so forth thereby may all serve as different types of language input mechanism to pick up the user s spoken or written words and to send them over the appropriate communication channel. A keyboard or keypad may be incorporated with virtual keys on monitor or with hard keys on a separate component of communication device in different embodiments. A graphics tablet for use with a stylus may also be incorporated on a separate component of communication device or a stylus may be used with a touchscreen mechanism in direct association with monitor while a touchscreen mechanism may also be designed particularly for direct human touch in different embodiments.

The language input mechanism may thereby be different than the graphical position user input mechanism such as a touchscreen associated with monitor . The selected communication channel is associated with the type of contact information element so that selection of an image that is associated with a telephone number triggers opening a communication channel in the form of a phone call selection of an image associated with an email address triggers the opening of an email composition panel addressed to the selected email address to prepare for sending through the communication channel of email and so forth. An individual one of thumbnail images may also be associated with multiple contact information elements as described below with reference to .

A phone call instant message or other communication channel may also include or be combined with video. In this case camera may record images of the user and transmit them over the communication channel together with the language input while the other party to the phone call instant message or other communication channel may also have a camera that records images of that person which are displayed on monitor . Communication device may also include other features for optimizing a videoconference or video messaging experience such as the ability for the user to select and zoom in on a section of an image being displayed on monitor based on a video feed from a recipient contact s video feed. The contact images and potentially a video feed between communication device and a contact s device may also serve as a graphical front end interface for other applications or input mechanisms such as mutual access to text related applications such as a shared whiteboard or mutually editable documents for example.

While depicts category icons used to sort contact people by category in other embodiments the contact images may be sorted in other modes. For example they may be sorted in alphabetical order of the names associated with the images or by the frequency with which the user selects them for initiating contact with the people associated with them so that an initial display may include a section with a short ranked list of the most frequent contacts. Sorting of the contact initiation images may also be done in conjunction with other navigation and selection mechanisms such as voice user interface for example communication device may be configured to refine the images presented in response to a voice input. For instance communication device may be configured so that if a user has the device in an image navigation mode and the user voices the name John communication device may then prominently display the images for all the contacts with contact information elements stored on the device where the contacts have the first name of John . Any other method of navigation among the contact initiation images may also be used in other embodiments.

As in image may also indicate different image portions depicting different contact people in different modes depending on changing aspects of status related to those contact people. For example image depicts certain of the image portions B to be highlighted to represent that the corresponding contact people are currently available such as by having their cellphones on or their instant messenger accounts logged into for example. Many other modes of indicating aspects of status for contacts may also be used such as depicting currently available contacts in full color and currently unavailable contacts in black and white or depicting available contacts with a flashing boundary for example. These status indications may be passively communicated from the contact people s communication or computing devices to communication device assuming that the contact person has their device on a setting that allows such information to be shared with the communication device .

After the communication device identifies through the touchscreen that a user has selected the coordinate area corresponding to the position of a particular image corresponding to a particular contact it may proceed directly to open a communication channel with a contact information element associated with the image such as by dialing a cellphone number by default for example. In another configuration communication device may have a preferred communication channel and a preferred communication contact information element pre selected for one of the contacts if the user has previously selected a preference for images associated with multiple contact information elements. If multiple contact information elements are stored in association with the selected thumbnail image and no default communication channel is in place or if no preference has been recorded for one of them to activate as a default then communication device may present a new display with a set of contact channel options instead of going straight to a phone call or other communication channel when an image is touched. The communication channel option display is shown in .

If a contact image is selected with an indication that the user wants to select from among multiple contact channels or if communication device is configured without a set default communication channel and the image selected is associated with contact information elements for more than one communication channel communication device may then display multiple communication channel options on monitor . depicts communication device in an aspect C in which it displays multiple selectable options for communication channels for contacting a single contact person. In this illustrative embodiment communication device again includes a touchscreen mechanism associated with monitor . In the configuration depicted the user has touched one of the contact images as depicted in now appearing as lone contact image and indicated for multiple communication channel options to be presented such as by holding her finger down on the selected image or pressing a multiple channel button for example. Communication device now displays multiple graphic icons one for each of a variety of potential communication channels. Communication device displays a communication channel icon for each communication channel for which it has stored a contact information element associated with the selected contact person depicted in contact image .

For example in the case of the contact person associated with contact image communication device has a cellphone number a home landline phone number an office landline phone number an email address an instant messenger username and a text message number stored in association with the selected contact person. Communication device therefore displays a different communication channel icon for each of these communication channels. These include communication channel icon for calling the contact s cellphone communication channel icon for calling the contact s home landline phone communication channel icon for calling the contact s office landline phone communication channel icon for composing an email addressed to the contact communication channel icon for sending the contact s username an instant message and communication channel icon for sending a text message to the contact.

Other modes of displaying the different communication channel options are also possible in other configurations such as text indications for example. Any other icons or other graphical indicators may also be used for each of the communication channel options in other settings. Any other type of communication channel may also be used and may have associated contact information elements and associated communication channel icons. After the user selects one of the contact information element widgets the communication device opens the appropriate communication channel. For example this may be a telephone call accompanied by a two way video feed which is depicted in .

The images stored on communication device to represent contacts and to be associated with contact information elements for those contacts may be derived in a number of ways. The user may load the images from a pre stored source or by recording an image with the camera and associating the recorded image with a contact information element which itself may be either uploaded from a pre stored source or entered by the user. Alternatively a contact individual may send an image to communication device such as by a virtual business card as an attachment to an email or instant message or as an avatar that is automatically sent in an instant message panel for example.

An uploaded image such as from a virtual business card or from an automatic avatar used by an instant messaging client may have metadata associated with it that may contain the name of the person depicted in the image along with one or more contact information elements for that person. This information may be recorded from the metadata to automatically associate with the image in an illustrative embodiment. Alternately a user may select an image to associate with a contact information element that is stored on the communication device such as by selecting options for a standard avatar or by selecting an arbitrary image to associate with the contact for example. Additional images may also be received or generated and be also associated with a contact information element or name that is already stored on communication device whether or not that contact information element or name already has one or more images already stored in association with it. Communication device may then use any one or more of a collection of images associated with a single contact and may offer the chance to switch from one of the images for that contact to another at different times in this illustrative embodiment.

In another illustrative embodiment a newly uploaded or received image may be associated with an existing one or more images through a pattern recognition mechanism. For example a pattern recognition mechanism may include a machine learning classifier that is configured to perform face recognition where the classifier may be embodied in software that runs on the communication device . Different components of the machine learning classifier may also be embodied as hardware elements on communication device and or may be stored on other resources that are accessible to communication device . If one or more images of a particular contact are already stored on communication device and a new image of the same contact is received by communication device communication device may run the machine learning face recognition classifier to automatically determine that the subject depicted in the new image correlates with or has similar characteristics with a subject already depicted in other images already stored on communication device . Communication device may then associate the new image also with the previous images of the same contact along with association with that contact s contact information elements. Communication device may then subsequently use the new image to display on the monitor and have it serve as a trigger if selected to open a communication channel according to the previously stored contact information element.

Such face recognition mechanisms may also be used for identifying a particular contact within an image that includes depictions of several different people and mapping the coordinates of the portion of the image that coincides with the depiction of that particular contact person as in . Face recognition mechanisms may also be used actively with images of the user of communication device captured by the camera and used for a user login or security mechanism in an illustrative embodiment. A device with multiple user accounts may detect a new user accessing the device apply a face recognition mechanism to images of the new user being recorded by camera compare the parameters of the user s face as generated by the face recognition mechanism with previously stored face recognition parameters associated with different user accounts and automatically log into the user account that matches the parameters or prevent any user account from being accessed if the parameters do not correspond to any user account. The device may then default to a password login mode in an illustrative embodiment for example.

Communication device may also include various functions as a media playback device for rendering still images videos files and audio files and may therefore also provide a seamless transition for sharing such media files with contact recipients. A user may select a media file to send through a communication channel along with a phone call email or instant message for example. Still image and video media files that are shared from one user to another may in turn be used to clip images from the media files to associate with a contact information element and to serve as a new graphical icon for initiating a communication channel directed toward the associated contact information element. These are just illustrative examples and there are many other additional ways in which communication device may serve as a united platform for both a full spectrum of communication modes with recipient contacts and a full spectrum of media access.

As another advantage for people of any level of technical interest because the form factor of communication device is dominated by monitor and is designed with a minimal aesthetic in this illustrative embodiment it may be set to display any image which dominates its appearance when not in use. Communication device may therefore also when not in active use display a personally selected wallpaper image or a revolving set of personally selected images or a screensaver or some other option for presenting an aesthetic appearance. Communication device may therefore be made to blend in and complement a user s surroundings rather than presenting an overtly techy or gadgety appearance in this illustrative embodiment and may therefore hold a more aesthetic appeal among a broad variety of different users.

The capabilities and methods for the illustrative graphical communication user interface systems devices and methods described and depicted herein may be embodied or associated with a wide variety of hardware and computing environment elements and systems. A computer readable medium may include computer executable instructions that configure a computer to run applications perform methods and provide systems associated with different embodiments. For example executable instructions may be stored on a communication computing device which when executed by a processor also included in the device configure the device to display images on the monitor based on image files stored on the device to receive a user input via a graphical input mechanism indicating one of the images to open a communication channel via a communication interface based on the contact information element associated with the selected image to receive input via a language input mechanism and to convey the input via the communication channel. Some illustrative features of exemplary embodiments such as are described above may be executed on computing devices such as computer or mobile computing device illustrative examples of which are depicted in .

Embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with various embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices. As described herein such executable instructions may be stored on a medium such that they are capable of being read and executed by one or more components of a computing system thereby configuring the computing system with new capabilities.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Memory is implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is illustratively allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is illustratively used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . During operation operating system is illustratively executed by processor from memory . Operating system in one illustrative embodiment is a WINDOWS CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system is illustratively designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device .

Mobile computing system also includes network . Mobile computing device is illustratively in wireless communication with network which may be the Internet a wide area network or a local area network for example by sending and receiving electromagnetic signals of a suitable protocol between communication interface and wireless interface . Wireless interface may be a wireless hub or cellular antenna for example or any other signal interface. Wireless interface in turn provides access via network to a wide array of additional computing resources illustratively represented by computing resources and server farm . Naturally any number of computing devices in any locations may be in communicative connection with network . Computing device is enabled to make use of executable instructions stored on the media of memory component such as executable instructions that enable computing device to receive a graphical user interface input selecting an image and opening a communication channel with a contact information element associated with the image and other tasks according to various illustrative embodiments.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. As a particular example while the terms computer computing device or computing system may herein sometimes be used alone for convenience it is well understood that each of these could refer to any computing device computing system computing environment mobile device or other information processing component or context and is not limited to any individual interpretation. As another particular example while many embodiments are presented with illustrative elements that are widely familiar at the time of filing the patent application it is envisioned that many new innovations in computing technology will affect elements of different embodiments in such aspects as user interfaces user input methods computing environments and computing methods and that the elements defined by the claims may be embodied according to these and other innovative advances while still remaining consistent with and encompassed by the elements defined by the claims herein.

