---

title: Digital data distribution detection, deterrence and disablement system and method
abstract: A method of distributing a data over a network includes protecting the data as a protected document by encryption and watermarking, controlling access to the protected document based on permissions, checking for permissions from a database, recording a record of the step of checking in the database, and accessing the protected document if allowed per permissions from the step of checking. The method collects a so-called “document thread” indicating a fingerprint of the first accessor of the data and the distributions and uses subsequently made of the data. The method is operable via a web page interface, such as through a browser of a device of the network communicatively connected to a web server of a data center. The method is alternately operable atop a document/data management system, including a client device application of a device of the network communicatively connected to the document/data management system. The method provides detection and log of the protected data in each event of access by the device over the network, deterrence of inappropriate access to the protected data by the device through policies for the document and device and event recordation on access, and disablement of the protected data for access by the device if access is not permissible per the method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407806&OS=08407806&RS=08407806
owner: 
number: 08407806
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070215
---
The application is a conversion of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 827 580 filed on Sep. 29 2006 and incorporated herein by this reference.

The present invention generally relates to distribution of digital files and information and more particularly relates to digital data distribution and knowledge accumulation and security in such distribution including by detection deterrence and disablement through the distribution system and method.

Within a communicatively networked enterprise such as a company or other organization it is typically desirable that files and other digitized information be freely and readily available for access and distribution throughout the organization to those requiring the information to perform work and benefit the organization. The organization however may nonetheless have concern that information should not be inappropriately distributed or used. This presents a conflicting situation to organizations. Conventional security measures for digitized information restrict distribution access and usage of the information. These restrictions however counter needs of the organization that most information be readily available and useable for appropriate purposes.

Most information within an organization is not confidential or propriety thus the information need not be restricted or limited in accessibility or usage to an extent required to maintain strict secrecy and confidentiality. The organization may nonetheless wish to know who is accessing and using the information whether and how it is being used and if further distribution of or access to the information is made. Even such information that is not confidential or proprietary may preferably be only distributed and used in appropriate manner.

Conventional information security measures have been implemented in organizations to protect digitized information from access and use. These measures because restrictive of access to and use of the information disrupt and impede information flows within the organization. Since much of the information within the organization need not be so securely maintained disruptions and impediments imposed through conventional information security measures are problematic. Organizations typically do not wish to discourage distribution and use of information that is needed for proper purposes. Yet this can be the outcome of conventional information security measures that operate to restrict access and use.

Technologies that restrict digital information access and use include so called digital rights management or DRM . DRM refers to certain conventional technologies used for protection of digital content such as consumer audio or audiovisual works and the like. DRM technologies conventionally encrypt data before distribution and limit access to the encrypted data to only such end users who acquire a proper license to access and use the data. DRM implementations tend to be complex and they restrict distribution and usage. As has been mentioned within an organization restriction of accessibility and use is cumbersome and disruptive of normal and desired information flows through the organization for most types of information. Further complexity of DRM implementation within an organization enterprise and other similar conventional security measures are not conducive to appropriate information distribution and usage in the enterprise and business environment.

Even though not ideal for use within business and similar applications where ease of access and use of information are often highly desirable various schemes are presently implemented in networked organizations to limit or prevent access to and use of data. These schemes include DRM technologies requiring that authorization licenses be obtained granted for devices users and the like in order to have permitted access to and use of information. Access and usage restrictions implemented with DRM schemes typically include encryption of data that is to be accessed obtaining of applicable license by devices persons who desire to access and use the data granting of unlock key for the encryption network download or other access gathering of the data and decryption by the end user device person via the key.

As mentioned DRM is restrictive complex and management intensive. Multiple steps and procedures are required in order for an applicable end user to gain access to and use of information. DRM tends therefore to impede distribution and use of information even information that need not be confidentiality protected or otherwise highly secured and that is valuable and appropriate for access and use. Complexity of DRM implementations as well as the managerial requirements expense and other problems associated therewith render these conventional information security technologies less than suitable for the organization or enterprise.

The term Enterprise Digital Rights Management E DRM or ERM has been used in some instances to refer to use of DRM technology to control access to corporate documents Microsoft Word PDF and the like as differentiated from DRM for consumer media. In the business environment this E DRM technology is essentially the same as DRM and requires all of the steps and security restriction aspects mentioned above. Like DRM E DRM also requires the complex and costly infrastructure and intensive management mentioned. E DRM systems in the corporate environment can take years to implement across the enterprise. When implemented distribution and normal information flows within the enterprise are impeded and disturbed. Even authorized information recipients within an organization or partner base for example must obtain authorizations licenses keys and the like. This usually requires user installations and or appropriate equipment to gain the required rights and capabilities to access and use the E DRM protected data. Infrastructure requirements likewise are extensive and include rights management facilities databases and aspects and management security and oversight thereof.

In E DRM implementations information distribution by authorized persons including further distributions by authorized recipients such as internally in the enterprise to others who should have or need access are even further restricted and limited by DRM and E DRM security measures. Applicable rights to and for information must be obtained installed and otherwise invoked for further distributions and by each recipient. Security protection afforded through these implementations can nonetheless be circumvented by unauthorized persons. Conventional DRM and E DRM therefore are not suited for many environments including particularly business organizations and enterprises and the like.

Knowledge about data and information distribution and of usage of the distributed data rather than restriction of access and use through DRM can be advantageous to the enterprise in many situations. Within the enterprise for example most information in digital form is not so confidential as justifying restriction and complexity of DRM schemes. The information is preferably more easily distributable and usable. It can be important however to have knowledge of the access and use being made of the information whether or not other protections are implemented. Conventional restrictive security measures such as DRM are not targeted to obtaining knowledge of distribution access and use of data. Instead the conventional measures focus on restricting distribution access and use. In most enterprises and as to most information of the enterprise knowledge of distribution access and use can be more valuable and effective than more strict restrictions.

Particularly detection deterrence and disablement capabilities as to information distributed accessed and used in the enterprise can provide significant advantages and benefits over DRM and other restrictive security schemes. It would therefore be a new and significant improvement and advance in the art and technology to provide distribution knowledge and use security for distributed digital data. Distribution and normal intended information flows are not significantly impeded or negatively affected through such measures as with conventional technologies and practices. Moreover such measures are more economical and less complex to implement and manage. The present inventions provide numerous advantages and improvements including improvements and nuances in the foregoing respects.

An embodiment of the invention is a system for distribution of a data over a network. The system includes a content protector for encrypting and watermarking the data as protected data an access controller for checking and reporting permissions to the protected data a database communicatively connected to the content protector and the access controller for maintaining information of the protected data from the content provider and the access controller and the content protector and the access controller are communicatively connected to the network.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of distributing a data over a network. The method includes protecting the data as protected data by encryption and watermarking controlling access to the protected data based on permissions checking for permissions from a database recording a record of the step of checking in the database and accessing the protected data if allowed per permissions from the step of checking.

Yet another embodiment of the invention is a method for distributing a document. The method includes detecting an event of access to the document in protected format by a data center deterring inappropriate action with the document by denial of permissions by the data center and through the step of detecting the event of access and disabling use of the document by denial of permissions.

Another embodiment of the invention is a system for distribution of a document by a data center to a device in communication with the data center. The system includes a database for tracking access to and use of the document a content protector connected to the database for incorporating protections in the document prior to any access to the document by the device and an access controller connected to the database for logging any access to the document by the device and reporting to the device any applicable permissions for the access by the device. The content protector encrypts and watermarks the document prior to any access to the document by the device and calculates a first hash of the document and a second hash of the document after protections are incorporated. The access controller reports applicable access permissions per policies dictated by the database for the document and the device to the device upon any access by the device to the document. The database in conjunction with the access controller operates to compare a third hash of the document in any access by the device to the first hash and the second hash in order to determine to report the applicable permissions. The applicable permissions allow the device to obtain a key to decode the document as encrypted if access to the document is determined by the access controller in conjunction with the database to be appropriate for the device. The applicable permissions are not reported by the access controller to the device if access to the document is determined by the access controller in conjunction with the database to be inappropriate for the device.

Yet another embodiment of the invention is a method of distribution of a document by a data center to a device in communication with the data center. The method includes tracking access to and use of the document by a database protecting the document by a content protector connected to the database prior to any access to the document by the device logging any access to the document by the device by an access controller connected to the database and reporting to the device any applicable permissions for the access by the device by the access controller in communication with the database. The step of protecting includes encrypting the document and watermarking the document. The step of protecting also includes calculating a first hash of the document and a second hash of the document after the steps of encrypting and watermarking the document. The step of logging includes communication by the access controller to the database of an access to the document by the device and an identifier of the device. The method also includes calculating a third hash of the document as accessed by the device and comparing the third hash to the first hash and the second hash to check that the document as accessed by the device is authentic and not altered. The step of reporting is dependent on a match result of the step of comparing. The step of reporting is also dependent on policies dictated by the database in communication with the access controller as to permissions for the document and the device. Further the method includes obtaining a key by the device to decode the document at the device if permissions for the document and the device are provided by the access controller in conjunction with the database in the step of reporting.

Referring to a data distribution system includes a data center . The data center is communicatively connected to a network . The network is communicatively connected to an end user computer . The network is for example the Internet an intranet an enterprise network local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN point to point connection or any other connective data communications infrastructure and elements. The network communicatively connects various communications devices e.g. fixed or mobile including other networks and other typical elements including for example laptop computers personal digital assistants cellular data phones and devices manager management computers IT professional administrator communications devices and others mobile immobile virtual or otherwise. Links comprising the communicative connections of the various elements are for example wire wireless optical and other communicative connections and links.

The network is a TCP IP network or other data communications network operable over the particular communicative links and combinations including intermittent trunk lines local links and other connections servers switches routers and communications devices and elements. The network is communicatively connectable to other and pluralities of communicative devices and links in addition to the devices elements and links shown in and includes any and all other networked communications now or hereafter developed or deployed. Moreover the network itself can be some dedicated non publicly accessible restricted access subscription limited use internal and or enterprise or other similar communications network. A company branch or office location division or other segment of a company for example can implement the system internally within the company via the company s communications systems devices and networks or otherwise through dedicated systems.

In the following each of the system the data center the network and the end user computer are described with respect to certain particular embodiments however as those skilled in the art will readily know and appreciate the description and embodiments are not and are not intended as exclusive or limiting to the options alternatives and modifications that are possible. For example reference is made to a single one of the end user computer however typically a plurality of such computers are similarly connected and have communicative access through such connections in similar manners. Further the end user computer is any communication device or element fixed or mobile that can communicate by communications link with and over the network including for example laptop or desktop computer personal digital assistant data enabled cell phone and all others. Similarly the network can comprise multiple networks and types of networks of intercommunicative devices and elements and network communications channels links protocols and media include all variations and possibilities. Pluralities and wide varieties of components equipment and communications links or vehicles can comprise the data center and the network and all of the various communicative arrangements now known and becoming known in the future are included. References made herein to particular devices connections equipment and elements are intended as exemplary.

Two particular embodiments of the data distribution system are hereafter described a web site implementation such as would be operated by a web accessible document protection web site of a company third party protection provider or other facility and a web services application programming interface API implementation such as can be operated by a company enterprise or third party provider for incorporating data protection with document management systems.

Continuing to refer to the data center in a website implementation of the data distribution system includes a database . The database is any database application software and or hardware having features operability and programmability for data storage warehousing and search and retrieval for example a software implemented relational database application such as SQLserver mySQL or Oracle. The database includes or communicatively accesses sufficient memory processing capability and elements for input storage retention maintenance utilization sorting access viewing and update of digital data and information of the data center in the application of the system . For example the database can be dedicated for collection of distribution and usage knowledge regarding data of the data center by distributors and distributees. The database similarly can operate to handle and maintain a wide variety of other data and digital information for an enterprise or company or otherwise as may be applicable.

The database is communicatively connected to an access controller and to a content protector . Each of the access controller and the content protector are software and or hardware that operate in conjunction with the database . A web server is communicatively connected to the network . A filter communicatively connects the web server for receipt of data requests to the data center from over the network such as from the end user computer . The web server is one or more server computers or banks of servers capable of communicating with the end user computer in server client push and or pull manners over the network . The controller and the protector are operable on or by the web server or either or both can alternately be operable by other processing elements or devices not shown of the data center . The filter is hardware and or software that assure security firewall and the like of the aspects of the data center as so communicatively connected to the network . The filter is likewise either included or incorporated in the server or otherwise. Requests for data from the data center made over the network to the data center such as by the end user computer are detected by the filter .

Other computing and communications devices can also be included or incorporated in the system . For example the database and other elements of the data center are managed by an administrator computer communicatively connected thereto. Of course as will be understood a wide variety of other alternative additional and different elements components devices and systems and networks thereof are possible in the embodiments including added or alternative aspects of the data center database server filter control and protection thereof and therefor network architectures and connections as well as pluralities hierarchies and groups of end user computing and communications devices.

In operation the web server serves to the end user computer over the network a web page interface to the data distribution system . Although not detailed herein conventional authentication and security measures are implementable to assure that the end user computer is to be permitted access to the data of the data center through the web page interface. Assuming the end user computer is to be permitted to access the data center the end user computer requests data such as a document or the like through the web page interface. The filter detects the request for data from the end user computer and directs the request to the content protector . The content protector communicates with the web server to obtain the requested data and to apply data protections. The content protector communicatively connects to the database and operates in conjunction therewith to appropriately protect the data by encryption watermarking and association of a policy with the data all per policies and implementations dictated for the data by the data center as later more fully described . The content protector communicates the protected data to the web server and the web server serves the protected data over the network to the end user computer such as over the web page interface file transfer protocol ftp or otherwise.

Once the protected data is received by the end user computer the end user computer communicates over the network to the access controller of the data center to determine applicable access permissions of and for the protected data. The access controller communicates to and operates in conjunction with the database to report the applicable permissions for the protected data to the end user computer . Via the communications between the access controller and the database as well as from the protections implemented to the data by the content protector in operation with the database the database maintains information of distribution and use of the protected data.

The particular policies access and use protections and permissions applicable to requested data are later further detailed. Generally however the system and its operations serve to track and collect information of distribution access and use of the particular distributed data such as a file or document. The system and its operations are not focused on the particular device person or recipient of the data and whether or not applicable access and use licenses or rights are held by the device person or recipient. Rather the system and its operations collect and make available knowledge through reporting and the like about device recipients of the data and uses made by such devices including as to any further distributions.

In effect the system and its operations collect paths of data distribution as a so called document thread . The document thread tracks the data as to each step of distribution to a recipient device. Additionally the document thread includes identifiers of each recipient device such as a so called fingerprint of the file and its distribution paths. Further the data includes a watermark applied by the system and its operations to the data document itself. This watermark is incorporated in the data document distributed to the first distributee device from the data center and includes a start of thread indicative of original recipient device identification and encryption. The watermark is associated with the document thread information as to subsequent recipient devices by the data center in the system and its operations. Because of the fingerprint watermark and document thread forensics including document hash comparisons and others are maintained by the system and its operations such as to ensure veracity of the data proper distributions appropriate access and usage and the like.

Policies programmed for the data center dictate the particularities of the fingerprint watermark and document thread as to each respective data document accessed. The policies as to particular data document can additionally include a wide variety of access and use controls implemented in and for the data document. For example the document thread can be limited in extent of possible distributions use and otherwise including such as limited number of accesses uses of data document particular allowed distributees or groups or collections of distributes shut down of access or use of the data document under applicable circumstances and others. These features of the system and its operations do not unduly restrict or impede information flows provided more traditional document restrictions are not added as can be possible for certain uses and do not involve or require significant complexity intensive management and other limits and impediments. The system and its operations thereby allow and provide detection deterrence and disablement as to data documents but alleviate much of the problems of conventional technologies.

Referring to in conjunction with a distribution method of the system of includes a step of requesting. In the step an end user computer having communicative connectivity to the data center such as over the network requests data from the data center . The data is any digitized file information program or other artifact or content maintained in data storage of the data center . In order to gain distribution knowledge and use security of the data the data center and system operate in accordance with the embodiments herein. The request for data made in the step is any client server file transfer protocol ftp or other type of request per the network and its normal mode s for data communications on the network .

Upon receipt by the data center of the data request communicated over the network in the step the filter performs a step of filtering the request. In the filtering step the data center detects that the data request is for a data that is to be protected in accordance with the embodiments. The step of filtering upon detection that the request is for data that should be protected based on data center policies for the applicable environment communicates the request to the content protector . A step of requesting the particular unprotected data from the server is performed by the content protector . Upon the step the server sends the unprotected data to the content protector in a step .

In a step the content protector protects the particular requested data. The protecting step comprises for example watermarking encrypting fingerprinting with secure hash of protected document and or other protections of the data. Alternately or additionally the protecting step can include other presently known and future data protection and ear marking measures. Additionally in the protecting step a step of communicating by the content protector is performed with the database . The database communications in the step coordinate between and among the database and the content protector the various protections for the data in the protecting step . Further the communicating step enables record and information maintenance by the database as to the particular data requested the protections applied thereto the distribution intended for the requested data and other information as is applicable to the end user computer the end user s request and the particular subject type and related attributes of the requested data.

After the step of protecting the data is completed a step delivers the protected data to the server for distribution. A step of delivering the protected data to the end user computer that made the request for the data is performed by the server . The delivering step is for example through communications of the server to and with the end user computer over the network . Alternative modes or vehicles for the delivering step such as copy to removable storage or the like is possible as to the step . Network delivery is contemplated however for at least certain embodiments and applications.

Upon receipt of the protected data by the end user computer from the delivering step the end user computer performs checking of the protected data for access permissions applicable for the protected data in a step . Checking of the protected data for permissions in the step includes communication by the end user computer to the access controller of the data center . The step initiates a step of permissions checking and reporting by the access controller . In the permission checking step the access controller signals to and communicates with the database to check and report permissions applicable to the protected data. Through the step the database collects and obtains for maintenance all distribution and use information for the protected data. A step reports permissions applicable to the protected data to the end user computer . The communications between the end user computer and the access controller occur for example over the network .

The end user computer then may view and or use the protected data if permissions allowing such viewing and use apply to the protected data. Any further distribution of the protected data by the end user computer such as to other users end users devices and the like is similarly policed and tracked in the system because of the nature of the protections and the permissions checking and reporting via the access controller . Each end user or other recipient of the protected data must also invoke the steps and as to the protected data. Through repetitions of the steps and as to the protected data and each distribution and use thereof the database obtains and maintains all distribution and use information for the protected data. The distribution and use information is viewable and reportable such as by IT administrators managers or others allowed such information and distribution knowledge and use security for the protected data is thereby collected and maintained by the system and method .

Referring to in conjunction with functional processes of various components and steps of the system and method are described. A web site for protected document distribution is accessed by the web browser of the end user computer . At the web site the computer via input of a user or application at the computer makes request on the web site for a protected document or other data available at the data center such as a Portable Document Format file i.e. PDF or pdf herein in in a first communication A by the computer to the data center over a connected network not shown in detail in shown in or the like. The first communication A is received by the data center at the collection filter . The collection filter in a second communication B delivers the request to the content protector .

The content protector processes the document request indicated from the collection filter and requests the particular document of the request from the server in a third communication C . The server serves the unprotected document to the content protector in a fourth communication D . Although not shown in in detail it is to be understood that the data center includes various document and data storage and facilities. The server and as applicable other data center features connect to such storage and facilities and the data center includes appropriate processing and communications features such that the server has access to and serves the unprotected document to the content protector . The content protector in processing the unprotected document for protection communicates with the database in a fifth communication E . This fifth communication E provides to the database various details of the protections being processed for the document by the content protector and also directs the content protector in processing appropriate and desired protections for the document. Policies and rules programming of the database together with operations of the content protector protect the document for distribution in the protected form. For example as previously mentioned document protections can include watermark encryption fingerprinting with secure hash of protected document for store in the database and others for the document.

Once the requested document is protected by the content protector the protected document is delivered by the data center to the end user computer . A sixth communication F delivers the protected document such as over the network. The delivery by the communication F is through the web site or as otherwise applicable in the arrangement. The protected document as delivered to the end user computer then checks for access permissions from the data center in a seventh communication G . This seventh communication G can also occur over the network by the end user computer to the access controller of the data center . The access controller then performs an eighth communication H with the database to check and report permissions for the protected document. This eighth communication H provides to the database relevant details about the protected document its distribution and recipient s and other aspects of distribution and use of the protected document. The applicable permissions are then reported to the protected document in communications of the access controller and to the end user computer .

Specific modes of communications and pathways for communications and signals are not detailed in the foregoing description of however all possibilities are included in keeping with the embodiments. As will be understood the server of the data center alone or in combination with other devices and aspects handles communications over the network and the web site in the usual embodiment. Within the data center server and communications equipment and facilities not shown in detail handle communications over the network between the end user computer that receives the protected data and the access controller . Moreover copy transfer of the protected data to removable media or the like at or in connection with the data center and all other variations are included.

The collection filter the content protector and the access controller are implemented in software and or hardware. The functions of these devices can be performed on the same different or combinations of processors and processing devices and associated memory storage and the like are similarly subject to variation. The database is implemented in software and or hardware and provides capabilities for storage sorting retrieval and other manipulations of tracking and use information for protected data distribution by the data center .

An administrator computer or other management device and software for the database and or pluralities thereof sets policies and rules for the tracking and usage as well as the protections that are applied by the content controller to data content to be distributed. Various reports alerts alarms and other oversight and management controls operate on the administrator computer to allow management of the database and the system and method thereof. Policies as to data distribution and access protections permissions and the like are set at the administrator computer such as by a data center monitor or administrator.

The end user computer communicates over the network with the data center for example via a website browser software of the computer . The website browser contacts the server according to applicable network and browser protocols and commands. The server serves to the end user computer for display in the browser the web page interface to the data center . As mentioned authentication and security measures are not detailed here but can be implemented to ensure authorized end users. Requests for data and documents as well as other communications of the computer with the server occur through the interface to the browser .

In operation by a user of the end user computer an input is made to communicate via the browser with the server . Upon display at the end user computer of the web page interface from the server the interface allows the user to input at the end user computer the request for data document as previously described. Once the user inputs the request to the end user computer and sends or otherwise communicates the request to the server the collection filter intercepts and redirects the request to the content protector . Thereafter the data center performs its document protections and database collection and recordation of the document particulars and returns communications of the protected document to the end user computer responsive to the document request.

The protected document in further communications of the end user computer on receipt of the protected document checks access permissions for the document with the data center . The access controller determines the permissions in conjunction with the database operations and recording of protected document particulars per the distribution reports applicable permissions for the protected document. At the end user computer the protected document can be manipulated per the permissions applicable to the protected document. For example viewing printing copying and other actions at the end user computer may be permitted per the rules and policies for the protected data as dictated by the system policies .

If the protected document is further distributed by the end user computer then the protected document continues to have applicable permissions as dictated by the data center and the permissions in each instance of access and use of the protected data whether by the end user computer or otherwise and as applicable according to the dictated policies of the system must be checked from and reported by the access controller of the data center . This creates the so called document thread that allows for detection deterrence and disablement of the document as has been mentioned. For example the protected document may allow for distribution with similar permissions or with only certain of the permissions. Further wide variations of permissions are possible for the protected document including different subsets supersets and so forth of permissions. Moreover rules and policies invoked via the permissions can limit time periods for further distribution access or other actions by the end user computer and each other end user as applicable and or as otherwise set for the protected document. In fact protections of the document can disable all or certain use access or distribution as applicable per rules and policies for the protected document.

Referring to an alternative data distribution system of a web services API implementation includes a data center comprising a document manager . At least one user computer is connected to the data center by a network . The network is any communications network and links as has been described. The data center may be housed internally within a business or the like and the network can allow appropriate access to data of the data center by the user computer and pluralities thereof as applies from internally within a company over a wider or enterprise network or otherwise. The user computer as previously has been described can be any of a wide variety of communicatively connected communications devices e.g. fixed or mobile .

The data center includes a document manager . The document manager is any present or future document management or content management system comprised of software and or hardware and includes all commercial as well as proprietary systems. Such content management systems have also been variously referred to as Enterprise Content Management Systems Digital Asset Management and the like and are presently available as integrated data solutions from a variety of sources such as IBM Xerox Adobe and others. The management systems permit tracking and storage of electronic content documents images and other digitized information such as in an enterprise or networked group. The information via the management systems is made accessible to devices that are authenticated for use of the systems. The data distribution system integrates these commercial or proprietary document and data management systems by interfacing therewith in the data center .

The data center of the data distribution system includes a database . The database is administered by an administrator computer communicatively connected to the data center . The database is as previously described as to the data center of and may be the same as or different than any database or store comprising or associated with the document manager . The database includes features of search retrieval and the like. The database via the administrator computer is programmed to maintain and report information about data distribution and usage in the data distribution system .

The database is communicatively connected to a content protector and an access controller . The content protector is substantially as previously described as to the data center of and includes software and or hardware that operate in conjunction with the database when data of the data center is accessed from the network such as by the user computer . The access controller is also substantially as has been described with respect to and also includes software and or hardware for operation with the database to check access permissions for data that is obtained for example by the user computer from the data center over the network .

The data center includes an integrator communicatively connected to the content protector and the access controller . The integrator is also communicatively connected to the document manager . The integrator interfaces the content protector and the access controller to the document manager . As mentioned proprietary and commercial document management systems are operable in the data center of the distribution system . The integrator is programmable to interface with a wide variety of document management systems as the document manager and to enable the distribution system to operate in conjunction with the management systems.

The document manager communicatively connects to the network such as through connected network servers and communications facilities not shown in . In the arrangement of the distribution system the integrator in essence operates atop the document manager . The integrator communicates with the document manager to intermediate between the document manager and the content protector for inclusion of applicable protections in requested documents. As previously described regarding the content protector in conjunction with the database incorporates protections into documents prior to distribution beyond the data center . The communicative connection of each of the document manager to the integrator and the integrator to the content provider allow the content protector to incorporate in the requested document the applicable protections. The content protector communicatively connects with the database to apply and register applicable protections to the document per dictated policies for distribution and usage information collection by the system .

In operation the user computer requests data by communicating the request for data over the network to the document manager . Prior to the requested data being pushed to or pulled by as applicable the user computer the data is communicated to the integrator by the document manager . The integrator directs the data to the content protector for incorporation of protections thereby e.g. encryption watermarking fingerprinting with secure hash of protected data etc. . The content protector returns the protected data to the integrator and the integrator communicates the protected data for the document manager in order to deliver the protected data over the network to the user computer . As previously described with respect to the content protector communicatively coordinates to and with the database various information of parameters and characteristics of the then requested data and its appropriate protections to allow collection by the distribution system of information of distribution and usage of the protected data i.e. to create maintain and report the document thread as applicable to the data so accessed and used .

The protected data at the user computer checks for access permissions by communication over the network to the access controller of the data center . The access controller communicates information of the distribution and access to the database . The database and access controller communicatively coordinate applicable permissions for the protected data as set per policies of the data center . The access controller reports the permissions for the protected data over the network to the user computer .

The permissions apply policies for the protected data as to viewing use further distribution and the like. The protections for the protected data are as applied and incorporated in the protected data per the coordinated operations of the content protector with the database . The access controller via the check by the protected data for permissions applicable coordinates operations with the database to report the permissions and to collect use and distribution information for the protected data for maintenance by the database . Protections and permissions are as set by policies of the data center via an administrator computer connected to the database . The document thread for the data as accessed used and distributed in the system allows for detection deterrence and disablement as described.

Referring to in conjunction with an alternative distribution method of web services API implementation of the system of includes a step of running a manager client application of the user computer . The manager client application is software and or hardware capable of accessing and requesting data from the document manager of the data center . For example the step operates the user computer to communicate a request conforming to a document retrieval interface of the document manager for particular data managed by the document manager . The request is communicated over the network or other communications link. Although not specifically shown in the document manager and data center can include equipment facilities processes and operations for document management and communicative access and retrieval of data thereof. The data center including the document manager can include relevant authorization and security measures to ensure authorized access by the user computer via the manager client application.

On running the manager client application in the step the user computer performs a step of inputting a request for data from the data center . In the step a user or application of the user computer inputs the request to the user computer via input device thereto and communicates the request over the network to the document manager . The document manager receives the request from the network and commences retrieving the requested data in a step . The document manager operates in accord with its usual operations.

The integrator connected to the document manager intercepts the unprotected data from the document manager in a step . In the step the interface of the integrator sends the unprotected data from the document manager to the content protector . The unprotected data is not then made available by the document manager to the user computer . Rather the content protector in a step incorporates data protections to the data. In conjunction with protecting the data in the step the protector communicates in a step with the database . In the step the particular protections according to dictated policies are implemented based on programming of the database and applicable information of the data protections and distribution are collected and stored in the database .

The protected data in a step is then returned via the content protector and the integrator to the document manager . A step of accessing the protected data is performed by the user computer through the manager client application in conjunction with the operations of the document manager . The protected data at the user computer checks over the network for applicable permissions at the access controller in a step .

The access controller communicates with the database in a step to check permissions of the distribution and use of the protected data. The database collects and maintains information regarding the protected data the distributee and the use and distribution as has been discussed. In a step applicable permissions are reported by the access controller over the network for the protected data. As with the systems and methods of the system and method obtain and collect information of any further use and distribution in similar manner. The collected information i.e. document thread of the data affords the detection deterrence and disablement operations via the method .

Referring to in conjunction with functional processes of various components and steps of the system and method are described. The user computer runs the manager client application to access the document manager and make a request for a protected document or data. The document or other data is available at the data center such as a Portable Document Format file i.e. PDF or pdf herein in . The user computer via operation of the manager client application makes request for the document in a first communication A by the computer to the data center over a connected network not shown in detail but shown in or the like. The first communication A is received by the document manager of the data center .

The document manager obtains the unprotected document per the request and the integrator intercepts the unprotected document from the document manager . The integrator communicates the unprotected document to the protector in a second communication B . The protector communicates in a third communication C with and operates per policies dictated at the database to protect the document. Then in a fourth communication D the protected document is returned to the integrator and on to the document manager for distribution per the request.

The protected document is communicated to the document management client of the user computer by the document manager in a fifth communication E . The fifth communication E is made over the network or as otherwise required and per the applicable arrangement for document distribution of the data center . On access to the protected document at the user computer the protected document checks for access permissions by a sixth communication F of the user computer to the access controller of the data center . The sixth communication F is similarly made over the network or as otherwise applicable.

In seventh communications G the access controller communicates with the database to check and report applicable permissions for the protected document and recipient. The permissions are reported to the protected document in an eighth communication H by the access controller to the user computer . The eighth communication H occurs over the network or other applicable link per the arrangement.

As with the web site implementation of the system method and functional processes of respectively allow for collection and maintenance of distribution and use information for and regarding the protected document. Any further use or distribution of the protected document is likewise registered by the database in order to track and collect relevant information according to the dictated policies for the protected document and distribution system. Modes of communications and pathways for communications and signals vary according to the particular document manager the user and the manager client application. The data center comprises devices and processes for handling communications in accordance with the foregoing as will be understood and per the document manager for the application. The various aspects of the system method and processes are implemented in software and or hardware.

An administrator computer or other management device and software for the database and or pluralities thereof sets policies and rules for the tracking and usage as well as the protections that are applied by the content controller to documents accessed through the document manager . The administrator computer in conjunction with the database has access to reports alerts alarms and other oversight and management controls for the data center and protected documents accessed from the document manager . That is the administrator computer has the document thread for the particular document so accessed used and distributed for forensic and distribution controls through detection deterrence and disablement options. The policies and rules set for the data center and that apply for each particular document thread are dictated by the database and its operations with the protector and access controller notwithstanding that the document manager operates in usual manner for such application.

The user computer runs the manager client application in order to communicate with the document manager to make request for the document. The manager client application operates in usual manner for such application and is unaffected unaltered via the protective elements and operations of the data center . The manager client application communicates a request for the document to the document manager per applicable network and client application protocols and commands. The client application thus interfaces to the document manager in usual manner and without impediment from the protective operations.

In operation by a user of the user computer a request is made via the client application for the document from the document manager . The document manager operates in usual manner to retrieve the document. The integrator however intercepts the unprotected document by interfacing with the document manager . The integrator communicates the unprotected document to the content protector for applicable protections. The content protector protects the document and the integrator returns the protected document from the content protector to the document manager . The document manager via communications of the client application of the user computer makes the protected document accessible to the user computer .

The protected document via communications of the user computer to the access controller on such access to the protected document checks access permissions for the protected document with the data center . The access controller determines the permissions in conjunction with the database operations and collection of information of the protected document. The access controller then reports applicable permissions for the protected document to the user computer . The user computer is capable of access and use of the protected document per the permissions applicable to the protected document.

If the protected document is further distributed by the end user computer protections continue with the protected document and permissions are as dictated by the data center . The applicable permissions in each instance of access and use of the protected data whether by the user computer or others according to the dictated policies of the system are checked from and reported back by the access controller of the data center . Various permissions or not per the policies set by the administrator computer for the database are possible for the protected document according to the implementation and application. The permissions can include limits or restrictions such as time period limits or the like including also such as disablement of all or certain use access or distribution. In every event of use and distribution the data center tracks and collects information i.e. the document thread about the use or distribution and the information is reportable and viewable from the database .

Referring to a method of protecting a document for which access has been requested from a data center is performed by a content protector such as the content protector of and of respectively. In a step of the method the content protector receives an unprotected document which may be a document file content data or the like. The unprotected document is made available to the content protector such as by a web server or an integration module for a document management system.

In a step the content protector communicates with a database to determine applicable protections to be applied for the unprotected document and for the applicable requester distributee. The database is programmed to dictate rules and policies for the protection implemented by the content protector. The content protector communicates to the database in the step various information regarding the document the request and the requestor.

The content protector in a step converts the unprotected document to a common format. In a step the content protector encrypts the document in the common format. The content protector also adds a watermark to the document in the step . The watermark includes a data center system generated identifier which the data center is capable of using to identify the requester and a data center system generated identifier which identifies the document to the data center.

Information regarding the protected document of the step is communicated to a tracking database of the data center in a step . The communications in the step include information records of the protected document and related data of the requester and protections applied. A hash of the unprotected document and a hash of the protected document are each calculated by the content protector in a step . The respective hash calculations are also communicated to the tracking database in a step .

In a step the tracking database associates the protected document with applicable document distribution and use policies as programmed for the tracking database and implemented by the content protector. The content provider then delivers the protected document for distribution to the requester by other aspects of the data center in a step .

The data center makes the protected document available to the requestor in a step . The requester receives the protected document in the step as distributed by the data center.

The requester must have or install a decoding viewing application in order to use and view the protected document in the common format. When the protected document is viewed or otherwise used by the requestor using the decoding viewing application the application informs the requester that the document is protected. In order to then view or use the protected document permissions must be checked in a step such as by a requester computer contacting an access controller of the data center. In the step the decoding viewing application contacts the access controller of the data center or other permission authority to retrieve the document viewing use policy and access control permissions per the policies applicable to the protected document and the requestor.

In a step if the viewing use policy is successfully completed and the policies permit the use by the requestor the decoding viewing application contacts the access controller and retrieves a decryption key for the document. The decryption key is communicated by the access controller to the requestor in a step . Further in the step the document is decrypted and can be viewed by the requestor.

The access controller makes a record in a step of each contact event by a requester for the protected document and does so in similar manner as to every other contact event. The record is provided to and maintained by the tracking database in the step . If the access controller denies permission for the access or the viewing use policy is not executed successfully the requestor is not provided any decryption key and access to the protected document is denied the requestor. In alternatives the requester can optionally obtain an access key and manually enter the key such as through communications through an alternate communication channel e.g. the requester can contact an administrator of the data center by phone or e mail and make the access use request . In every event the applicable policies for the protected document and the particular requester that obtains the protected document must be satisfied in order to gain access and use of the protected document. In other alternatives time limits on access to protected documents restrictions on allowed distributees and others can be set by the data center such as by denial of permissions and keys as dictated by applicable policies for the protected document and particular requestor.

The foregoing data protections provide detection of access to protected documents deter unauthorized access because of the protections and contact event record i.e. the document thread and further provide disablement opportunities to restrict use and distribution of the document for viewing and manipulation. All of these protections are implemented by virtue of the document knowledge obtained and maintained by the systems and methods as the document thread .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element of any or all the claims. As used herein the terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus.

