---

title: Enhanced screen auger sampling system
abstract: A removable plug and collar for a hollow stem screened auger and a method of collecting water samples using the plug and collar. The plug has an outer threaded surface that is threaded in a first direction. The top of the plug has an internal threaded cavity that is threaded in a second direction opposite that of the first direction. The collar is pressure fit within the top of the screened auger, held in place with an auger bolt, and has an internal threaded surface to receive the plug. The plug has multiple ports to receive air and sample tubes, enabling samples to be collected without removing the plug from the screened auger. To set a well after sampling, the plug is removed from the collar down hole as a drill rod is threaded into the plug's internal threaded cavity in a direction the same as the second direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07631705&OS=07631705&RS=07631705
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Interior
number: 07631705
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070320
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefore.

The present invention relates in general to collection of ground water samples during vertical profiling of ground water quality in the subsurface and more particularly to a removable plug and collar system for use with a hollow stem screened auger.

Hollow stem drilling augers are commonly used to bore holes in the earth to collect water and soil samples and to construct monitoring wells. A hollow stem auger has a cylindrical shape and an outer wall that is typically solid but can be laser slotted or screened. An example of a screened auger having slots is shown in . An example of a solid wall auger is shown in . Hollow stem augers have a hollow center or passageway for receiving sampling tools. A cutting head or drilling bit is attached to the bottom of the hollow stem auger to cut through soil. A continuous helical flighting is attached to the outer wall to lift the cut soil out of the bore hole. Hollow stem augers typically have an outside diameter of 6.25 inches including the flighting and a 3.25 inch inner diameter.

A series of hollow stem augers are connected end to end as the drilling process proceeds to form an auger column. shows a typical hollow stem auger column . An uppermost auger of the auger column attaches to a drill rig not shown to rotate the auger column into the soil. The drilling bit is attached to the lowermost or leading auger. The auger column provides a continuous bore from the surface level to the desired sample or drilling level. Boring and sampling tools are passed from the surface level through the hollow center of the auger column to the desired depth. A single auger is typically 5 or 10 feet in length enabling sampling of soil or water in aquifers at varying levels below the earth s surface.

When water is to be sampled the screened auger is used as the leading auger for the intake of ground fluids. The augers above the screened auger are solid wall augers . The augers are rotated and successively interconnected until the desired sampling level is reached. A sampler or submersible pump is lowered down the hollow stem to the screened auger to collect a sample. To collect another sample at a different depth the sampler or pump is removed additional augers are attached to the top of the auger column and the augers are rotated down to the next desired level where the sampling process is repeated. The sampler or pump must be retrieved prior to the connection of each additional auger and then lowered once again after drilling to the next desired depth.

While drilling formation materials can enter the hollow stem as the auger column is advanced. Formation materials can be prevented from entering the hollow stem by inserting a center plug not shown at the bottom of the screened auger which is knocked out and left in the ground prior to well installation or soil sampling. Formation materials can also be blocked by using a center rod assembly with an attached plug system not shown that is retrieved prior to well installation.

Collection of ground water samples using conventional screened augers and submersible pumps is cumbersome and time consuming and the reliability of the samples is questionable. At each sample depth after the advancement of the screened auger into virgin aquifer a pump must be lowered into the augers and placed at the depth of the screened auger. Because the screened auger which is the first auger at the bottom of the auger column is not isolated from the auger column above it the pump is not isolated and water in the column above the screened auger can flow into the pump and jeopardize the reliability of the sample.

To provide a more reliable sample an inflatable packer can be placed above the pump to isolate the water to be sampled from accumulated water in the hollow stem above the packer. The pump is turned on water is purged from the isolated zone and then a sample of the ground water is collected while the selected zone refills. However with conventional auger drilling systems it is necessary to lower the pump inflate the packer collect the sample deflate the packer and then remove the pump with the addition of each auger to further advance the bottom screened auger and collect a sample. For each new sample collected at a deeper depth the process must be repeated. These operations are time consuming and disturb the water column within the augers which compromises the reliability of the sample.

Thus there is a need for a system and method for reliable efficient and continuous collection of samples using a screened auger that prevents water above the screened auger from flowing into the pump within the screened auger while allowing the installation of a monitoring well after vertical profiling if desired.

A removable plug and collar system and a method of collecting water samples using the plug and collar system are disclosed for use with a standard hollow stem screened auger. The plug has a cylindrical shape and an outer threaded surface with threads surrounding the outer threaded surface in a first direction e.g. left hand threads . The top of the plug has an internal threaded cavity that is threaded in a second direction e.g. right hand threads opposite that of the first direction. The outer surface of the collar is pressure fit within the top of the hollow stem screened auger and secured in place with a conventional auger bolt. The collar has an internal threaded surface to receive the plug. The plug is removed from the collar as a drill rod is threaded into the internal threaded cavity of the plug in a direction the same as the second direction.

The plug and collar system of the present disclosure in combination with the conventional center plug placed at the bottom of the screened auger provides the ability to seal both the top and bottom of the screened auger so that more reliable samples can be collected. The plug of the present disclosure has a top member which includes the outer threaded surface and an elongated bottom member extending from the lower surface of the top member. The unique shape of the plug of the present disclosure allows for the attachment of a slim line bladder pump to the plug. The plug has a multiple port system to attach tubes such as air tubes and sample tubes to the plug so that the samples can be collected without needing to remove the plug. The ports are threaded to accept standard size ferrule connections.

The ability to leave the plug in place during sampling provides many advantages including for example the ability to 1 reduce or eliminate the flow of water above the screened auger into the bladder pump 2 obtain more reliable and representative ground water quality samples than has previously been possible using screened augers and auger rig drilling 3 reduce the volume of water needed to collect representative samples and 4 decrease the time needed to collect multiple ground water samples from different depths while profiling with a screened auger. Also the dual left and right hand box threading of the plug i.e. the direction of the threads on the outer surface of the plug is opposite the direction of the threads in the internal threaded cavity of the plug allows for its down hole removal using standard A rod drill stems so that a monitoring well can be set after sampling.

Various aspects and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which are not necessarily drawn to scale.

The present disclosure describes a removable plug and collar system that fits within the upper end of the conventional hollow stem screened auger . The plug and collar system isolates the water column above the screened auger from the water within the screened auger so that representative water samples can be collected from the screened auger .

Referring now to there is shown a perspective view of a removable plug and collar system including a plug and a collar . The plug has a top member and a bottom member both members having a cylindrical shape. The top member has an upper end and a lower end . An O ring collar fits within a groove see on the outer cylindrical surface of the top member of the plug to prevent leakage of fluids. The outer cylindrical surface of the top member of the plug has threads that surround the outer cylindrical surface in a first direction. For example the outer cylindrical surface of the top member may be left hand threaded. The upper end of the top member has an internal plug cavity that is threaded in a second direction opposite that of the outer cylindrical surface. For example the internal plug cavity may be right hand threaded. The internal plug cavity receives a drilling tool such as a drill rod see for removal of the plug from the collar .

The top member of the plug has multiple passageways or port hole columns bored through the height of the top member each port hole column having a port on the upper end and the lower end of the top member . Three ports are shown on the upper end in to receive an air tube a sample tube and an optional injection tube see . Companion ports are shown in . All of the ports and their companion ports are threaded holes to accept ferrule connections not shown which fit a minimum tubing diameter size of about 0.25 inches.

As shown in one or more O rings are placed around an outer surface of the collar to pressure fit the collar into the top of the screened auger . The collar has grooves see to accept the O rings . The collar is hollow and has a bolt hole on one side of the collar to accommodate the auger bolt see that firmly holds the collar in place within the screened auger . An internal surface of the collar is threaded in the first direction to receive the top member of the plug .

Referring to each of the ports and each of the companion ports has a diameter Dof about 0.275 inches to receive ferrule connectors that accommodate the air tube the sample tube and the optional injection tube . Each tube has a diameter of about 0.25 inches. The plug cavity has an outer diameter Dof about 1.75 inches and is shaped to accommodate a bottom end of the standard drill rod .

The dimensions of the plug and the collar described above are provided to fit the conventional 3.25 inch inner diameter screened auger . However the dimensions of the plug and the collar can be modified to accommodate screened augers of various sizes.

A conventional down hole slim line bladder pump is attached to the bottom end of lower tubes . The conventional bladder pump shown in has an outer diameter of about 0.875 inches and a length of about 18 inches. The bladder pump is attached to the bottom member of the plug using a connector such as a clamp or U bolts to securely hold the bladder pump within the screened auger . The height Hof the bottom member of the plug can vary as long as the length is sufficient to allow the bladder pump to be secured to the side of the bottom member of the plug . The lower tubes are constructed of plastic or other non corrosive materials. For example the lower tubes can be constructed of stainless steel to add rigidity to the pump assembly. The plug and the collar may be constructed of stainless steel or other durable water resistant non corrosive materials.

The collar is pressure fit into the top of the screened auger . A solid wall hollow stem auger is slipped over the top of the screened auger and held in place by the auger bolt which is placed through the bolt hole in the solid wall auger the bolt hole in the screened auger and the bolt hole in the collar .

Alternatively the plug and collar system can be assembled by first placing the O rings around the outside of the collar and pressure fitting the collar into the top of the screened auger . The bladder pump is then attached to the bottom member of the plug using the connector . The lower tubes are connected to ports and the bladder pump is attached to the bottom end of the lower tubes . The optional lower tube may be connected to port if the optional injection tube is used. The O ring collar is placed in the groove on the top member of the plug . The bottom member of the plug is inserted through the collar and the top member is left hand box threaded into the collar until contacting the lip at the bottom of the collar . The air tube the sample tube and the optional injection tube are connected to ports respectively and secured by the ferrule connections that thread into the ports . A solid wall hollow stem auger is slipped over the top of the screened auger and held in place by the auger bolt .

Additional solid wall augers are added to the auger column to advance the screened auger to the desired sampling level. As each new auger is added to the auger column new tube sections not shown are added to the tops of the tubes to extend the tubes . Each tube section has about the same length as each auger section. Each tube section is attached to a previous tube section using standard threaded ferrule connections. Thus the tubes are attached to the ports in the plug and extended as each new auger is added so that the tubes run up the auger column to the surface. The top ends of the tubes are attached to the uppermost auger see with a clip not shown for example. Each time a new auger section is added the top ends of the new tube sections are reattached to the new uppermost auger .

After the auger column is advanced to the desired sampling level the uppermost auger is disconnected from an auger bell not shown which turns the auger column into the ground and the upper ends of the air tube and the sample tube are respectively connected above ground to a power supply airline or air source not shown and to a sample collection device not shown . The air tube is used to expand a bladder inside the bladder pump and push through positive displacement the sample fluid up the lower tube through the passageway connecting port to port and up the sample tube to the sample collection device. Alternatively a peristaltic pump not shown located above ground may be used to collect samples rather than the bladder pump . If a peristaltic pump is used it does not need to be attached to the bottom member of the plug and only one tube the sample tube is attached to the peristaltic pump at the surface level. The lower companion tube is attached to the companion port and the fluid sample is withdrawn through negative displacement to the surface.

To collect additional samples another solid wall auger and accompanying new tube sections for attachment to the tubes are added to the auger column the newly added uppermost auger is reattached to the auger bell and the screened auger is lowered to the next desired sampling level. After all the ground water samples are collected the plug along with the bladder pump the lower tubes and the tubes is removed using the conventional drill rod such as an A rod so that a well can be set if desired through the auger column using standard well drilling methods. The collar remains in the auger column but can be removed after the well is set and the auger column has been removed from the well.

The conventional A rod shown in has an outer diameter of about 1.75 inches a female threaded section at the top not shown to connect to the drill rig and a male threaded section at the lower end that is about 2 inches long and tapers to a diameter of about 1.25 inches. The plug is removable because it is left hand box threaded into the collar forming a reverse threaded plug and collar junction whereas the A rod is right hand box threaded into the plug cavity in the top member of the plug . As the A rod is threaded into the plug the plug is removed from the collar because of its reverse thread.

The above disclosure describes a removable plug and collar system that fits into a standard hollow stem screened auger. The plug and collar system of the present disclosure in combination with the conventional center plug placed at the bottom of the screened auger provides the ability to seal both the top and bottom of the screened auger so that more reliable samples can be collected. The unique shape of the plug of the present disclosure allows for the attachment of a slim line bladder pump to the plug and the collection of positive displacement ground water samples. The plug of the present disclosure has multiple passageways with ports to attach tubes such as air tubes and sample tubes so that water samples can be collected without removing the plug. The ability to leave the plug in place during sampling provides many advantages including for example the ability to 1 reduce or eliminate the flow of water above the screened auger into the bladder pump 2 obtain more reliable and representative ground water quality samples than has previously been possible using screened augers and auger rig drilling 3 reduce the volume of water needed to collect representative samples evacuation of a large volume of water also presents disposal problems and sometimes can be time consuming thereby inflating costs and 4 decrease the time needed to collect multiple ground water samples from different depths while profiling with a screened auger. Also the dual left and right hand box threading of the plug allows for its down hole removal using standard A rod drill stems so that a monitoring well can be set after sampling if desired.

The present invention has been described with respect to the collection of samples for the detection and monitoring of hazardous and toxic waste contained in subsurface aquifers. The invention has broad application in test well drilling and profiling of ground water quality in the subsurface using auger rig drilling. The present invention may also be used to profile permeability variations in the subsurface by use of hydraulic testing so as to assist in the optimal vertical placement of domestic gravel packed wells. It can also be used to identify problematic water quality conditions associated with domestic well water quality by identifying water quality conditions prior to well installation. At sites where identification of solute transport parameters is important the optional injection tube can be used to inject tracers and perform push pull tracer experiments.

In addition the plug and collar system described above which isolates the water column above the screened auger from the water within the screened auger can be used with pressure transducers and other downhole probes not shown to monitor ambient downhole conditions if designed in conjunction with swivel type auger connections not shown at the drill rig. This enables the continuous monitoring of pressure or other parameters while auger drilling.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that modifications and variations of the present invention are possible without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

