---

title: Systems and methods for providing a persistent navigation bar in a word page
abstract: Computer implemented methods for defining a navigation control, located inside of a shell of a word page are provided. The navigation control includes a plurality of dynamic controls defined as part of the navigation control. An associated dynamic control of the plurality of dynamic controls is associated with a tool and is configured to allow display of a user interface of the tool in an overlying window, without leaving the word page. The shell of the word page that includes a plurality of page modules is dynamically generated through a user action related to a word, and the plurality of page modules include content that is contextually related to the word. The overlying window is configured to be defined over one or more of the plurality of page modules. Further, the plurality of page modules are contextually related to the word when content of every page module in the plurality of page modules has some descriptive interrelated dependence to or from the word.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07930645&OS=07930645&RS=07930645
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 07930645
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070809
---
This application is related to co pending 1 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 724 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Dynamic Page Creation 2 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 723 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Comments Aggregation and Carryover in Word Pages 3 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 721 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing Enhanced content Portability in a Word Page Module and 4 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 719 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Multi function Search Box for Creating Word Pages each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention generally relates to displaying information related to a given word. More specifically but without limitation this invention relates to providing a navigation control in word pages of a word website.

The computing industry has seen many advances in recent years and such advances have produced a multitude products and services. Internet websites are examples of products and services which are created to give users access to particular types of services data or searching capabilities. Today websites can be readily created by most individuals desiring to post information or provide access or connectivity to other data. Websites are also created updated and supported to provide constantly updated current event information news and other information. This data is highly managed and processed so that its presentation can be easily displayed on web browsers or other Internet connected devices.

Currently to date however the traditional web sites provide mostly unstructured and contextually unrelated information to a user. For example when a phrase is searched resulting web page typically displays many links to external websites. These links to external websites are typically selected to be displayed on the web page based on phrase matching criteria without any consideration for user interactivity and or contextual relationship with the searched phrase. Generally the user is forced to visit many external websites associated with presented links to find more information about the searched phrase.

Broadly speaking the present invention fills these needs by providing a persistent navigation bar in a word website to enable integration of collaboration and productivity enhancement tools and to provide navigational assistance to the users of the word website. In the word website a unique word page is generated for each user entered or selected word. As used herein a word is defined as relating to a concept person feeling etc. and functions as a carrier of meaning. The word may be a single word a phrase a name of person event place phenomenon method etc. The word page includes one or more page modules. Each of the page modules include content that are contextually related to the user entered word.

The persistent navigation bar as described here is a navigation control that may include one or more tool controls. In one example the navigation bar remains put when the word page is refreshed or reloaded. The navigation control can be used to enhance the user interactivity and usability of the word website. The navigation control is provided to enable integration of collaboration and productivity enhancement tools such as access to user s email boxes instant messages IM mailboxes ability to send IM from the navigation bar access to social and business events calendar etc. The users of the word website are able to access these most commonly used tools without leaving the word website. Hence there is a need for methods and systems that provide a persistent navigation bar in the word page to enable integration of collaboration and productivity enhancement tools.

In one example the shell of a word page includes one or more page modules a multi function search box and a persistent navigation bar. While the content of the page modules in the word page continue changing based on the selected or entered word the persistent navigation bar does not change visually with the changes in the content of the page modules.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method for defining a navigation control located inside of a shell of a word page is provided. The navigation control includes a plurality of dynamic controls defined as part of the navigation control. An associated dynamic control of the plurality of dynamic controls is associated with a tool and is configured to allow display of a user interface of the tool in an overlying window without leaving the word page. The shell of the word page that includes a plurality of page modules is dynamically generated through a user action related to a word and the plurality of page modules include content that is contextually related to the word. The overlying window is configured to be defined over one or more of the plurality of page modules. Further the plurality of page modules are contextually related to the word when content of every page module in the plurality of page modules has some descriptive interrelated dependence to or from the word.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method for handling a navigation control located inside of a shell of a word page is provided. The navigation control includes a plurality of page modules that are dynamically created through a user action defining a word and the plurality of page modules include content that is contextually related to the word. The navigation control on the display screen contains a plurality of dynamic controls in the shell of the word page. The method includes displaying the plurality of dynamic controls to display a user interface of tools associated with each of the plurality of dynamic controls the user interface is configured to be displayed in an overlying window defined over one or more of the plurality of page modules. The method further includes associating each of the plurality of dynamic control with the tools. Further the plurality of page modules are contextually related to the word when content of every page module in the plurality of page modules has some descriptive interrelated dependence to or from the word.

In another embodiment a computer readable media having program instructions for executing a navigation control located inside of a shell of a word page is provided. The navigation control includes a plurality of page modules that are dynamically created through a user action defining a word and the plurality of page modules include content that is contextually related to the word. The navigation control on the display screen contains a plurality of dynamic controls in the shell of the word page. The computer readable media includes program instructions for displaying the plurality of dynamic controls to display a user interface of tools associated with each of the plurality of dynamic controls the user interface is configured to be displayed in an overlying window defined over one or more of the plurality of page modules. The computer readable media further includes program instructions for associating each of the plurality of dynamic control with the tools. Further the plurality of page modules are contextually related to the word when content of every page module in the plurality of page modules has some descriptive interrelated dependence to or from the word.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Most notably the system and apparatus described herein provide integration of collaborative tools and controls through the persistent navigation bar in the word page. Hence the users of the word website can access their emails instant messages personal calendar events calendar and many other tools and controls without leaving the word website.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the present invention.

The figures are provided in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The figures should not be construed as limiting the breath of the invention in any manner.

A system and apparatus for providing a navigation control in a word page is disclosed. A word page includes page modules that present content having specific context. Context can be defined based on types of media or categories with a type of media. In one embodiment a vertical defines a type of media such as music movies communication shopping gaming etc. Within each vertical further contextual categories can be defined. For instance within music a context can be defined for types of music each artist etc. Thus for purposes of clarity the degrees and granularity by which types of context can be broken up or organized can grow over time as further context definitions are generated for words. The word page as used herein is a web page that is constructed from one or more page modules. The page modules as noted above will each define a type of content such as movie related content music related content picture related content game related content video related content gossip related content etc.

Although other interface control features can be used to enable word entry and analysis of an entered word for context the example shown herein is a multi function search box. The multi function search box is used to enter or select a word and that word will be used to rearrange construct or obtain contextually related content that will define the presentation data interactivity images etc. of specific page modules. Thus the word page is a contained page that dynamically changes depending on the selected or entered word. A word page is therefore not a search engine or search interface that triggers a search of web links or external websites. To the contrary the word page will contain or generate one or more page modules and the data that is presented in each of the page modules dynamically changes or is updated over time or based on the entered word in the multi function search box or the selection of specific words within a particular page module of the word page.

As used herein to be contextually related means that a particular word that may be entered by a user is related to other words or phrases. Other words or phrases may be related in terms of context and the context means that there is some weaving together of words in terms of meaning subject or a combination thereof. Thus words that are contextually related to other words or phrases may be connected in terms of coherence. Still further context can be thought of in terms of parts of a discourse that surround a word or passage and can throw light on the meaning of the entered word. Some words that are considered contextually related may be defined based on some descriptive interrelation dependence or condition based on a theme environment setting event group of similar media similar activities or combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the shell of the word page includes a persistent navigation bar a multi function search box and one or more page modules containing content that is generated based on a user entered word in the multi function search box. The content in the page modules are contextually related to the user entered word.

In one example information retrieved for the user entered or selected word is displayed in different types of page modules. For example music related content is displayed in a music module gossip related content is displayed in a gossip module and so on. Various types of standard page modules are provided to display a set of popular content types. Unlike traditional search engines that provide links to possible information about a searched phrase a web page e.g. word page is created for the entered word as defined in one embodiment. Furthermore the created word page provides content in a user friendly manner as opposed to providing raw links to external web sites or web resources. Moreover unlike traditional search engines that present links leading to possible unrelated information about a phrase the word page hosts information either directly or contextually related to the entered word.

The persistent navigation bar has numerous functions. In one example the persistent navigation bar provides a container for various dynamic controls. Each of these dynamic controls is associated with tools for providing an online collaboration environment in the word website. In another example the dynamic controls may also be associated with productivity enhancement tools such as ready access to external resources that can be accessed by the users without leaving the word website. In yet another example the controls in the persistent navigation bar are customizable by the users. Hence a user may be able to rearrange the controls add more controls and associate them to the internal and external resources of user s choice. The internal and external resources as mentioned herein include an Internet knowledge base internal external email boxes IM engines Online calendars Internet websites and tools user applications on the desktop and Internet etc.

With this overview in mind the following figures will illustrate example structure and functionality of the multi function search box in word pages.

The favorite module is also a special type of page module and is used for storing pointers to favorite page modules in one embodiment. In another embodiment various user defined contents or links to external resources media movie clips albums etc. may also be stored in a favorite module . In yet another embodiment the favorite module contains content specific to a particular user wherein content is added to the favorite module through user action.

As illustrated in word surrounded by page modules sponsored modules and favorite module signifies that a quest for information related to the word leads to generation of various types of page modules and sponsored modules each hosting a specific type of content. further illustrates that generation of the word page revolves around selection of the word i.e. information displayed through various page modules is focused on the selected word . For example selecting popular for word will generate a word page with the most popular content for each respective page module such as popular movie popular music popular celebrity popular fashion popular club etc. . A new word page including a different set of page modules is generated every time a new word is selected. Hence in above example when the selection changes from popular to newest a new word page including page modules such as newest movies newest music album newest car models etc. will be generated.

In one embodiment the word website maintains a list of words and a list of appropriate page modules for various types of content related to each of the words in the list. In one embodiment words and page modules are maintained and updated by the information editors with the help of user s browsing patterns latest stories about various celebrities products etc. various topics that users may be interested in the latest news etc. Content are grouped in different categories such as content related to a particular subject or word suitable or liked to a particular segment of users. In one embodiment contents are regularly and continuously updated to keep up with the latest developments. In another embodiment various types of contents are scanned and obtained from various electronic media sources automatically based on context based search filters.

In one embodiment the user should to be registered and logged in for the word website to retrieve user s favorite module from the persistent storage. In another embodiment the word website uses the Internet browser cookies or other markers to track user s content tagging.

Still referring to . The persistent navigation bar further includes a hide page control . The hide page control when selected or clicked by the user makes the page modules in the word page visually disappear from the display screen leaving only the persistent navigation bar visible in the shell of the word page. This feature is geared toward privacy protection in that the user of the word page can hide the content of the word page quickly when someone walks by and could inadvertently look at the content of the word page. In one embodiment the persistent navigation bar also includes a knowledge control which can be configured to connect to knowledge resources such as Yahoo Answers . In another embodiment the knowledge control may be configured by the user to connect to other external resources such as online wikipedias dictionaries thesauruses etc.

In one embodiment the knowledge control monitors the content of the word page to ascertain the subject context of user selected content in a page module of the word page. The user may select a specific content in the page module and click on the knowledge control to explore the selected content or the subject matter of the subject content further without leaving the word page. In another example the knowledge control may take the user directly to the associated external resource to find answers meaning or explanation of the selected content in the page module. In yet another example the answer meaning or explanation may be retrieved from the associated external resource and displayed to the user in a separate pop up window. In yet another example the retrieved content from the external knowledge resource may be displayed in a new page module in the word page.

In one embodiment the persistent navigation bar is rectangular in shape. In another embodiment the persistent navigation bar is oval in shape. In yet another embodiment the persistent navigation bar may take any shape so long as the persistent navigation bar can be contained inside the word page without hindering the view to the page modules in the word page. In one embodiment the persistent navigation bar is opaque. In another embodiment the persistent navigation bar is transparent. In yet another embodiment the persistent navigation bar itself is invisible but the dynamic controls contained within the persistent navigation bar are visible. In yet another embodiment the visual properties of the persistent navigation bar and the dynamic controls are user configurable.

In one embodiment the dynamic controls in the persistent navigation bar are rectangular in shape. In another embodiment the dynamic controls are square in shape. In yet another embodiment the dynamic controls are circular in shape. In yet another embodiment the dynamic controls are oval in shape. In yet another embodiment the dynamic controls can take any shape so long as the dynamic controls can be contained within the persistent navigation bar .

Still referring to in one embodiment the dynamic controls in the persistent navigation bar expands to an appropriate size suitable to display content of the dynamic control or the associated tool. When expanded the dynamic control creates an expanded portion in the form of a window. The expanded portion can thus overlie one or more page modules of the shell . Thus the window of the expanded portion will in one embodiment lie over one or more modules.

In one embodiment the expanded portion can be solid. In another embodiment the expanded portion may be partially transparent to enable the content of the page modules underneath the expanded portion to be partial visible. In still another embodiment the expanded portion is opaque. Also the expanded portion can have multiple stages of expansion and thus different window configurations . For example when the dynamic control is clicked once the expanded portion may have a particular set of physical dimensions. When the dynamic control is clicked again while the dynamic control is in the first stage of expansion the physical dimensions of the expanded portion can change to another set of physical dimensions and so on.

Still referring to the expanded portion in one embodiment shows a user interface of the associated tool. In another embodiment a selected content is retrieved from the associated tool or external resource and displayed in the expanded portion . For example if the dynamic control is associated to user s calendar that is hosted in an external resource such as Microsoft Outlook the expanded portion may display the user interface of Microsoft Outlook . In another example the persistent navigation bar will retrieve user s calendar data entries from Microsoft Outlook and display the content in a calendar control and custom user interface provided by the persistent navigation bar . Consequently in this embodiment the data can be presented in a format that is more user friendly than if entire native interfaces were imported in or displayed in a window. Still further because one embodiment enables direct access to the data also residing in other applications the handling of data changes through the dynamic control enables for efficient data management and tracking of updates that can be populated back to the files used by the native applications.

Referring now to . The dynamic controls in one embodiment provide visual notifications in various geometric shapes. In another embodiment the visual notifications may be implemented using replacing icons on the dynamic controls when a notification needs to be conveyed to the user. In yet another embodiment a visual notification may be implemented using any technique capable of attracting attention of a user who is looking at the dynamic controls . These visual notifications do not require a user action. In stead the visual notifications are based on monitoring of the external resources that are configured in the word website or in the persistent navigation bar . For example the persistent navigation bar may monitor user s one or more email boxes to notify the user if one or more new emails have arrived. In one embodiment an audio notification may also be provided along with the visual notification . The visual notifications may also display a snapshot of the content of the notification. For example the visual notification may display a list of newly arrived comments including comment writers names or identification or a number representing newly arrived emails etc.

Still discussing the event details include time and date of the events location of the events and brief description of the event. In one embodiment the event details may also include a picture related to the event. The events may be browsed by a month a week or a day. In one embodiment using the search box the events may be searched by keyword or keywords. In other embodiment the events may be searched for contextually related events. For example searching for Justin would also bring up any event related to N Sync because Justin was a band member of N Sync hence a contextually relationship exists. In one embodiment when the calendar dynamic control or any other dynamic control is in expanded state the visual notifications from other dynamic controls are not hidden from the view of the user.

Moving on to which illustrates a text messaging dynamic control . Text messaging is getting more and more popular. Hence providing a text messaging interface in the word website would allow users of the word website to stay on the word page in the world website and also send and receive text messages including instant messages. In one embodiment a text message box is opened when the text messaging dynamic control is clicked on the persistent navigation bar . The text message box includes a address bar to select a recipient of the text message which is entered by the user in a message box . The recipient may be a user of an instant messaging IM platform such as Yahoo Messenger or could be a cell phone user having a text message receiving facility in the cell phone. In one embodiment the user maintains a list of recipient by entering the names and receiving address e.g. a phone number or a IM id etc. . In another embodiment the text messaging dynamic control automatically stores the names and addresses of all outgoing text messages.

Still referring to the text message box also includes a picture placeholder which shows the picture of the recipient. The picture is stored as a part of maintaining of the recipient list by the user. If there is no picture provided a default picture or no picture is displayed in the picture placeholder . A text message can also be sent directly to a phone number . A send button is provided to initiate text messaging sending process. The text message is entered in the message box . Since many cell phone text messaging service providers limit number of characters in the text message being sent to a phone a character counter is provided to indicate a count of characters while the user enters the text message in the message box . In one embodiment an entry bar is provided to enable the user to enter a return address to which a reply if any to the text message being sent be sent. The return address could be a phone number or user s IM id including the IM platform identification.

Still referring to in one embodiment the message consolidation dynamic control displays counts of various types of messages sent to the user when a mouse pointer is brought over the message consolidation dynamic control . In another embodiment the message consolidation dynamic control may display the counts without any mouse pointer action on the message consolidation dynamic control . In one embodiment a voice notification control is provided to play an audio to inform the user that one or more new messages or comments or invites or pokes have arrived.

Referring now to the message consolidation dynamic control expands to show a consolidated inbox that in one embodiment displays all received messages. In another embodiment the consolidated inbox may also display invites pokes and comments. The consolidated inbox includes from subject type and date received fields to display a list of incoming messages invites comments or pokes. A selected member of the list may be displayed in the message box . In one embodiment the message being displayed in the message box may include one or more pictures.

A configuration framework is provided to enable configuring the dynamic controls associating the dynamic controls to internal or external tools etc. The configuration information in one embodiment is stored in a relational database. In another embodiment the configuration information is stored in a operating system file. The configuration file may be stored in word website servers or the configuration file may be stored in a server that is connected to the word website servers. The configuration information includes a list of dynamic controls to be loaded and displayed on the display screen when the persistent navigation bar is loaded and displayed on the display screen. The configuration information also includes a mapping list that describes relationships between the dynamic controls and their respective association with any internal or external tool e.g. a dynamic control is associated with a calendar tool . The configuration information also includes parameters and their values related to the size location and shape of the persistent navigation bar on the display screen.

In one embodiment the persistent navigation bar accesses the word website configuration stored in a relational database to get logged in user information to enable accessing user s email box or boxes IM inbox or inboxes etc. Furthermore the persistent navigation bar also accesses the relational database configured to maintain contextual relationships of the words to enable contextual search in the calendar dynamic control and in other user configured dynamic controls in the persistent navigation bar .

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention may employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The programming modules page modules and subsystems described in this document can be implemented using a programming language such as Flash JAVA C C C Visual Basic JAVA Script PHP XML HTML etc. or a combination of programming languages. Commonly available application programming interface API such as HTTP API XML API and parsers etc. are used in the implementation of the programming modules. As would be known to those skilled in the art that the components and functionality described above and elsewhere in this document may be implemented on any desktop operating system which provides a support for a display screen such as different versions of Microsoft Windows Apple Mac Unix X Windows Linux etc. using any programming language suitable for desktop software development.

The programming modules and ancillary software components including configuration file or files along with setup files required for installing the widget dock and related functionality as described in this document are stored on a computer readable medium. Any computer medium such as a flash drive a CD ROM disk an optical disk a floppy disk a hard drive a shared drive and an storage suitable for providing downloads from connected computers could be used for storing the programming modules and ancillary software components. It would be known to a person skilled in the art that any storage medium could be used for storing these software components so long as the storage medium can be read by a computer system.

The invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs DVDs Flash magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

While this invention has been described in terms of several preferable embodiments it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon reading the specifications and studying the drawings will realize various alternation additions permutations and equivalents thereof. It is therefore intended that the present invention includes all such alterations additions permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

