---

title: Online publishing portal for controlling brand integrity
abstract: An online publishing portal enables geographically-spaced common-brand users to publish locale-specific, content-controlled messages. The online publishing portal provides selective access to pre-constructed, digital, plate-ready macrotemplates. A dynamic document server stores the macrotemplates and authorizes selective access thereto based upon user-supplied credentials. The user, having authenticated credentials, may access a select macrotemplate, which necessarily comprises a plurality of digital, plate-ready microtemplates, including at least one restricted access template and at least one open access template. Authorized users may edit a select microtemplate as dictated by the user's level of authorization. The user may thus send the content-controlled digital, plate-ready file to a publisher for publishing information or messages compiled upon the macrotemplate. The portal thereby enables geographically-spaced common-brand users to publish locale-specific, content-controlled messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07814560&OS=07814560&RS=07814560
owner: Bell Litho, Inc.
number: 07814560
owner_city: Elk Grove Village
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070823
---
This application is a divisional patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 144 714 filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on 4 Jun. 2005 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 268 896.

The present invention generally relates to the field of desktop publishing and printing. More particularly the present invention relates to an online publishing portal that inherently teaches a system and method for controlling brand integrity as presented upon printed matter which printed matter originates from geographically spaced desktops in a network environment.

Given an audible prompt comprising a readily identifiable word an experienced and vocal typesetter is able to instantaneously dissect the word into its component letters and recite the component letters aloud alphabetically. The recitation is reflexive requiring little if any cognitive effort. The skill is developed over time with day to day typesetting experience and is simply reflective of the typesetter s conditioned response to perpetual workload as driven by consumer demand. The process of typesetting involves the presentation of textual material in an aesthetic form on paper or some other media. Before the development of innovations such as the dot matrix inkjet and laser jet printers printed material was produced in print shops. In spite of centuries of innovation the principle of printing remains the same either a particular part of the page is marked or not marked with ink. This has remained true at the microscopic level even for halftone and four color printing. Typesetting is the technology of deciding which parts of the paper should be marked and printing is the technology of making the marks. However the two are not rigidly separated for example ink flows during the printing process and type design has to take into account the dynamics of ink on paper.

With the advent of computers the inevitability of inventive computer based typographical methodologies became apparent and thus the skill here anecdotally described may very well be shelved and replaced with computer means. In this last regard it will be noted that software developers continually develop electronic means for achieving inventive end results. Service industries such as the printing industry for example have seen rapid growth in the use of web based interface means for enabling consumers to order printing services and or printed products. In this regard a number of inventive systems and methods have been developed as a means to embrace consumer demands and provide the marketplace with quicker more efficient ways to meet printing or publishing needs. Two of the more pertinent U.S. Patent disclosures describing web based network methodologies for providing consumers of printed matter with quicker more efficient ways to meet consumer demands are described hereinafter.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 611 349 349 Patent which issued to Vogt et al. discloses a System and Method of Generating a Printing Plate File in Real Time using a Communication Network. The 349 Patent teaches a printing and publishing system which generates a printing plate ready file from data provided remotely in real time using a communication network. The printing and publishing system includes a central service facility and an end user facility and or a printing company facility. The end user facility provides page building operations allowing the design and construction of pages from images text and data available via the communication network. The central service facility provides storage file processing remote access and content management operations. File processing operations include generating a plate ready file from pages designed at the end user facility. The plate ready file has a file format capable of high resolution and is ready for creation of a printing plate. The printing company facility provides printing operations for producing a printing plate from the plate ready file.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 738 155 155 Patent which issued to Rosenlund et al. discloses a System and Method of Providing Publishing and Printing Services via a Communications Network. The 155 Patent teaches a printing and publishing system providing prepress content management infrastructure and workflow services to system subscribers in real time using a communication network. The printing and publishing system includes a central service facility and an end user facility and or a printing company facility. The end user facility provides page building operations allowing the design and construction of pages from images text and data available via said communication network. The printing company facility provides imposition operations allowing the setting of pages on a particular plate as well as positioning and orientation of pages on said plate. The central service facility provides storage file processing remote access and content management operations. Content management operations include the capture organization archival retrieval and reuse of electronic files containing any one of text graphics photos artwork full pages audio video and completed projects. Content management operations further include the organization and cataloging of file content for browsing searching and retrieving of files and data.

From a review of these prior art disclosures and from a general consideration of other pertinent prior art generally known to exist it will be seen that the prior art does not disclose a web based or network based system for providing plate ready digital files comprising branded portions and offering portions wherein the branded portions are controlled by a singular ubiquitous source of control and wherein the offering portions are controlled by a plurality of localized control sources on an as needed basis. In this regard it is noted that brand integrity often suffers unintentionally when brand owners have geographically spaced licensed operators each of whom has localized business concerns and who may make otherwise seemingly unfettered use of a designated brand or trade dress. If proper control over the use of a mark or brand is weak or unstructured the mark s or brand s value as a reliable source identifier of a particular product or service wanes. Indeed in an extreme case where a mark or trade dress is used without adequate control restriction or supervision the mark or trade dress may be considered or construed as having been abandoned by its owner and thus free for others to use.

Brand integrity is thus of paramount importance and value to brand owners as a reliable source identifier of a particular product or service and thus a need continually exists to ensure brand integrity in the printing publishing industry. Printers or publishers in various locales receive orders for printed matter bearing brand information via localized licensed operators. Neither the printer nor the localized licensee may fully realize the import of maintaining brand integrity and thus the brand owner may suffer a loss in intellectual property value if measures are not taken to preserve the value inherent in branded printed matter.

As is noted in the 155 Patent the steps for producing printed materials using a plate process include 1 preparing copy elements for reproduction 2 prepress production 3 plate making 4 printing and 5 binding finishing and distribution. In this printing production process an end user such as publishers direct marketers advertising agencies and corporate communication departments prepares copy elements for reproduction. In this design stage of the printing process the end user provides images and data using slides or computer files to create one or more pages . Pages can be designed using computer programs such as QXor other publishing software packages. Slides or computer disks containing pages to be printed have traditionally been sent via a carrier to be prepared for creation of a plate.

In the prepress production stage the end user input or copy is transformed into a medium that is reproducible for printing. Typically prepress involves typesetting illustration page building and design image capture image color correction file conversion RIPing trapping proofing imposition filmsetting and plate setting. Proofing involves producing a proof or sample of what the printed product will look like. The proof is sent by mail or express carrier to the end user for review and approval. After alterations are made new proofs are sent to the end user. Once approval of the proof is given by the end user a medium such as a computer to plate CTP file is produced and sent to the printer. Imposition involves the set of pages on a particular plate as well as their positioning and orientation. Imposition is particularly important in the creation of booklets or catalogs where pages are positioned using register marks to assist in the stripping collating and folding of the printed product. In the plate making stage a printer manufactures a printing plate using the medium created during prepress. Where a CTP file is used the printer converts the CTP file into a printing plate or goes directly to a digital press. In the printing stage the printer uses the printing plate to create the printed product. In the binding finishing and distribution stage the printed product is prepared in its final form.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a means for controlling a branded printed message such as an advertisement in a cost effective manner when multiple users and locations are involved. The system and method of the present invention enables individuals at multiple locations access to branded and controlled elements at the same time in a controlled environment.

The invention is essentially a system and method for protecting an organization s branded message. The methodology allows for personalizing finalizing publishing and delivery of web based or web constructed branded print ready templates. This solution allows for digital distribution of text data images and sound. Utilizing web based personalized templates the originator can control each template including content and all aesthetic elements.

These controlled templates can be used by any organization in education marketing support materials advertisements or virtually any printable message. The organization can provide password access to multiple users. This system provides ability to personalize and edit certain areas of the controlled message. Multiple users can operate the system at the same time. Once personalized the message or document can remain digital for further analysis or print or be output as a print ready or plate ready digital file. It can also be distributed in a digital form. This system requires limited or no training to produce final quality controlled messages from a basal support system or platform that otherwise requires extensive skill or training.

The system thus can monitor and generate reports by facility by item or by individual transaction. The system provides a dynamic management tool for branded items by providing proofs scheduling distribution and publishing of printable branded documents. An authorized individual can introduce and control information gaining economies of scale for replenishment of said items. The methodology comprising a web based server environment enables organizations with multiple locations access while controlling the branded message.

Objects of the invention thus include a desktop publishing system and methodology that 1 requires minimal instruction and or training and is easy to use 2 allows user to access and personalize template documents 3 maintains branding standards 4 maintains legal content requirements 5 creates and maintains any unregistered trade dress including an organization s look style and quality as presented in marketing material 6 updates and distributes a marketing message in real time to multiple facilities 7 saves money in reduced time for production and publishing of digital images 8 allows multiple users from multiple locations to simultaneously access library elements 9 enables the generation of reports such as order history by facility item volume etcetera and 10 enables the combination of multiple smaller localized orders into a single larger order.

To achieve these and other readily apparent objectives the present invention provides an on line publishing portal OPP or web site. The process starts by prompting the user to login to the OPP. After the user inputs login data the system authenticates the user. If the user provides valid credentials the user is taken to the main page of the OPP. The user at the main page of the OPP is provided with a number of prompts. One such prompt is a create document prompt and when selected by the user operates to provide a selection of document templates broken into categories or groupings based upon document type.

The system then queries whether the selected document requires an organizational listing to be added to it. If the selected document does indeed require an added organizational listing the user is directed to a page where he or she is prompted to select an organizational group and select a typesetting style to use for the organization group in the document. The system then creates the new document from the document template the user selected.

The user is then prompted by a document editor page in which he or she is shown a preview of the document and where editable and interchangeable elements of the document are highlighted for the user to change. At any point during the editing process the user can review the document in Portable Document Format PDF . Once the user has changed all the parts they wish to the user can select to finalize the document which checks the document for errors and displays errors found so that user can correct the same. If the document passes finalization the user can then publish the document if not they will have to make additional changes until it can pass finalization.

To publish a document the user must select a publication to which to send the document. Typically the publication is a newspaper but notably can be any company that uses digital print ready files and can receive them electronically. The user fills in additional details that are to be sent along with the file known as an insertion order. The additional information is sent via email while the digital print ready file is sent via electronic means as required by the consumer of the publication or consumer of the file. A conformation email can also be sent to the user.

Other objects of the present invention as well as particular features elements and advantages thereof will be elucidated or become apparent from the following descriptions and the accompanying drawing figures.

Referring now to the drawings the preferred embodiment of the present invention concerns a system and method for controlling brand integrity upon printed matter generated in a network environment. In other words the present invention discloses a system or method for conveying high integrity branded messages to viewers or recipients.

As earlier indicated generally outlines the user authentication routine contemplated by the present methodology. From an inspection of it will be understood that the diagram details how a user is authenticated and then logged into the system. The diagram starts with the user opening up a web browser and typing the URL of the system s web site into the user s web browser inputting data in the user s data input means or user interface thus entering the online publishing portal. Once the web browser finds the site the user is shown the login page upon which they are prompted to enter their login credentials. The user enters his or her login credentials and submits them to the web site for verification. Once the user submits the details the system checks a precompiled user data store for the user and verifies that the credentials the user supplied are correct. If the credentials the user supplied are not correct the user is taken back to the login page and shown an error message detailing the error that was encountered and possible resolutions to it. If the user supplied valid credentials and it is not the user s first login then they are taken to the main page of the system s web site an example of which is depicted in FIG. . If the user supplied valid credentials and it is the first login for the user then the user is taken to the user preferences page and asked to change their password. Once the user changes their password and submits it to the web site they are shown a message that their details have been updated. The user can then navigate to the main page of the site via a link on the page.

It will be seen from a further inspection of that a further step may include querying whether the selected macrotemplate or document requires a store or other listing to be added to the macrotemplate during the editing phase as generally referenced at in . If the macrotemplate requires a store or other listing the user is directed to a page where he or she is prompted to select a store group from a group listing as generally referenced at in and select a style to use for the selected store group in the macrotemplate generated document as further generally indicated in at . From an inspection of relating to market sig set and style selection the reader will note that in the exemplary screenshots the selection of market sig sets is analogous to the selection of store group as here specified. For the selected market sig set in namely Test 1 four style prompts are displayed thereunder from which the user may select a styling.

The user selects a document template and may opt to create a new document from it. If the document template requires a store list to be selected then the user is taken to the store groups page where the user is asked to select a store group to use in the document. The user selects a store group and clicks the preview button. The system takes the store group and document template the user wishes to use looks for pre created template panels that are used exclusively for store groups finds all the styles that can be used with the template panels and selects which template panels can fit within the pre defined area within the document template. The system then loops through the styles for each template panel creating stylized output for the store group by applying copy fitting rules to adjust attributes of the text such as line leading font size and tracking. The output is then inserted into a data queue linked to the template panel.

The system then sends the output to the document processor which merges the data queue with the template panel and checks for overflow of text within the template panel. If the stylized output did not overflow the textbox of the template panel then the text style attributes values are increased for the style and the output is reinserted into the data queue for the template panel. If the limits of the text attributes are reached with or without an overflow change then the system marks the template panel and style combination for that store list as non fitting. That information is then recorded in the data store so that the same combination of style template panel and store group is skipped if it occurs again for another document.

If the stylized output did overflow the text box within the template panel then the text style attribute values are reduced for the style and the output is reinserted into the data queue for the template panel. If the style attributes had been reduced due to an overflow previously for the style and template panel and after an increase the style and template panel is overflowing again then the text style attribute values are reduced and recorded in the data store as a successful fit for the style and template panel combination. If a successful fit is recorded the system generates a preview of the style and store group combination using the document processor for the user to choose from. If no combinations of style store group and template panel were found to fit the pre defined area within the document template then a message is displayed informing the user that no such combinations were found and suggest alternative courses of action.

If combination of style store group and template panel were found to fit the pre defined area within the document template then the system shows the user the previews generated by the document processor. The user selects the style they wish to use for the store group from the preview displayed by the system. The system creates the new document. If the document template required a store group and the user selected a combination of style store group and template panel that fit the pre defined area within the document template then the system adds this information to the data queue and a new version of the document is created by the document processor which includes the template panel in the pre defined area within the document template. The stylized store group is also added to the data queue and merged each time a preview of the document is required. It will thus be understood that the present system discloses means for automatically copy fitting information within certain text box parameters. In other words the information is copy fit within the text box parameters without manual typesetting by means of a routine as specifically set forth in and heretofore described.

The system then proceeds to a visual document editing page for creating a new document from the macrotemplate the user previously selected. This step is generally referenced at in and . outline the process of editing a macrotemplate which process or routine is generically referenced at in . The edit a document routine as enabled at the document editor page generally depicted in and shows the user a preview of the document editable and interchangeable elements of the document are highlighted for the user to change depending on the user s clearance credentials as dictated during the authentication process. For low level users i.e. users other than a designated brand comptroller such as regional operators and the like non branded panels are highlighted so that these panels may be edited by the low level user. From an inspection of and it will be seen that panels or microtemplates shown in broken lines at have been highlighted in a first highlight color such as yellow to make the user more readily aware of those panels or microtemplates that may properly be edited. It is thus contemplated that the editable or alterable panels or microtemplates may be considered as open access templates or panels accessible by users of both high level and low level security clearance credentials.

Panels that may not be edited by the user such as branded panels or portions or legal notice panels or portions which may only be amended by designated users having high level security clearance credentials do not become highlighted and cannot otherwise become altered electronically. Panels need not be branded or contain legal notices to qualify as unalterable. For example other restricted access panels or portions may include advertising messages or the like as may be required by the user. Restricted access panels or portions and are referenced in and . Notably at any point during the editing process the user can review the document typically in a preferred portable document format PDF for output. The review step is referenced at in .

Once the user has changed all the parts they wish to the user can select to finalize the macrotemplate generated document which step is generally referenced at in . Further generally depict exemplary screenshots involved with the finalization process. The finalization routine essentially checks the macrotemplate for errors as defined by rules written by or under the direction of the macrotemplate developer. For example the developer may default pricing text to display a zero dollar figure such as 0.00 or 0.99 or a zero time of day such as 0 00 A.M. or 0 00 P.M. If the user fails to otherwise edit the 0.00 or 0.99 or 0 00 A.M. or 0 00 P.M. to an appropriate price or time for display the pricing and timing parameters being defined per the instructions of the macrotemplate developer the finalization routine will flag the error s firstly advising the user with an appropriate message such as depicted in . By opting to view the errors the user is taken to a screen such as that depicted in .

From an inspection of it will be seen that the finalization routine flags the error s secondly highlighting the microtemplate with a second highlight color such as pink as generally referenced at in . Thus it will be understood that the finalization routine or step checks the macrotemplate generated document for errors and displays the errors found so that the user may make the necessary amendments to correct them. If the macrotemplate generated document passes the finalization routine the user may preferably be advised of the same with an appropriate message as generally depicted in whereafter the user can proceed to publish the brand protected message such as advertisement bearing brand or source identifier information. The routine query whether the macrotemplate generated document passed finalization is referenced at and the step or routine of publishing the macrotemplate generated document is referenced at in . If the document fails the finalization routine the routine will loop until proper amendments to the document have been made. is an exemplary screenshot depicting an advertisement details page of the OPP showing details of the advertisement as finalized with the finalization routine.

If the system does find boxes in the merged collection for the current edit mode that have been marked as changeable then the system inserts highlighted overlays into the web page markup highlighting the positions of the boxes over the preview displayed to the user. The system also collects lists of a template panel frames that have been pre selected for placement into the highlighted areas and inserts the list into the web page markup for display if the user selects a highlighted area. The user is shown the editor page with a preview of the document overlaid with highlighting of the areas of the document that can be changed in the current edit mode. The user selects a highlighted area and is shown a list of available template panel frames that can be placed into the pre defined area. The user selects a template panel frame from the list submitting it to the web server. Notably the provision of various pre selected panel frames or microtemplates virtually eliminates the need for the user to be trained in or skilled with the supporting template constructing software. In other words the user can simply point click and swap templates into a supporting macrotemplate thus making the front end of the system user friendly.

The system takes the selected template panel frame and inserts it into the data queue if an existing template panel frame has been assigned to that pre defined area then it is removed from the data queue first with cascading removal of dependant panels and text edits from the data queue and document box collection. After all removal of any prior template panel frames has been completed the selected template panel frame is inserted into the data queue and boxes from the template panel frame are copied from the template boxes collection into the document boxes collection. Once all changes to the data queue have been completed the data queue and original base template for the document template is passed to the document processor so that a new document can be created and saved as the working document.

The system refreshes the editor page generating a new preview of the document showing the selected panel frame in the pre defined area. Once the editor page is displayed to the user the user may opt to change the edit mode to panel mode from the side menu. The system collects boxes from the document boxes collection and the original template boxes collection and merges the collections together. The system then selects the boxes that can be displayed based on the mode of the editor. If the system finds no boxes in the merged collection for the current edit mode that have been marked as changeable then the system displays a message to the user informing them that there are no changeable items in the current editing mode and a suggestion to change edit mode.

If the system does find boxes in the merged collection for the current edit mode that have been marked as changeable then the system inserts highlighted overlays into the web page markup highlighting the positions of the boxes over the preview displayed to the user. The system also collects lists of a template panels that have been pre selected for placement into the highlighted areas and inserts the list into the web page markup for display if the user selects a highlighted area. The user is shown the editor page with a preview of the document overlaid with highlighting of the areas of the document that can be changed in the current edit mode. The user selects a highlighted area and is shown a list of available template panels that can be placed into the pre defined area. The user selects a template panels from the list submitting it to the web server.

The system takes the selected template panel and inserts it into the data queue if an existing template panel has been assigned to that pre defined area then it is removed from the data queue first with cascading removal of dependant text edits from the data queue and document box collection. After all removal of any prior template panels has been completed the selected template panel is inserted into the data queue and boxes from the template panel are copied from the template boxes collection into the document boxes collection. Once all changes to the data queue have been completed the data queue and original base template for the document template is passed to the document processor so that a new document can be created and saved as the working document. The system refreshes the editor page generating a new preview of the document showing the selected panel in the pre defined area. Once the editor page is displayed to the user the user selects to change the edit mode to text edit mode from the side menu.

The system collects boxes from the document boxes collection and the original template boxes collection and merges the collections together. The system then selects the boxes that can be displayed based on the mode of the editor. If the system finds no boxes in the merged collection for the current edit mode that have been marked as changeable then the system displays a message to the user informing them that there are no changeable items in the current editing mode and a suggestion to change edit mode. If the system does find boxes in the merged collection for the current edit mode that have been marked as changeable then the system inserts highlighted overlays into the web page markup highlighting the positions of the boxes over the preview displayed to the user. The user is shown the editor page with a preview of the document overlaid with highlighting of the areas of the document that can be changed in the current edit mode. The user selects a highlighted area and a popup window is displayed showing a form for the selected text box that contains a list of fields containing text that can be changed by the end user. The text shown in the form is pre marked as being editable by an administrative user. The pre marked text is extracted during markup and stored in data storage for speedier access and reporting when displaying forms. The form itself is generated based on the marked up text.

The user makes the text changes they need to and submits it to the web site. The system checks the entered text for possible errors and if errors are found displays an error message for the user detailing the errors found. If no errors were found then the system merges the text edits made by the user into the existing text data for the textbox being edited. If existing text edits exist for the text box in the command queue then these are removed before the new text edits are inserted into the data queue. Once all changes to the data queue have been completed the data queue and document are passed to the document processor so a new preview can be generated for the user. The system refreshes the editor page generating a new preview of the document showing the text changes made by the user. The user continues making changes to the document until done. The user then exits the document editor.

To publish a document as rendered from the finalized macrotemplate the user must first select a publisher to whom the document will be sent. In this regard a publish document page is displayed whereupon a number of publishing criteria are displayed one of which is selection of the publisher as achieved via a drop down menu and a precompiled publisher data store as generally referenced at in . Typically the publisher is newspaper but can be any company that uses digital print ready files and can receive them electronically. The user may then complete or fill in additional details that are commonly sent along with the print ready file otherwise known as an insertion order. Exemplary additional detail prompts are further represented or depicted in and . The additional detail information may then be sent via email while the digital print ready file is sent via electronic means as required by the consumer of the publication or consumer of the file and a confirmation email may also sent to the user all as referenced at in . is a screenshot of an advertisement details page of the OPP depicting details of the advertisement to be published. is a screenshot of an insertion order view page of the OPP depicting insertion information.

Certain file delivery queues have been built as independent programs that are not specifically tied to the online publishing portal. The queues serve the online publishing portal by facilitating the delivery of finished documents. This is done via the electronic means of file transfer protocol FTP and file attachments in emails. The queues where designed as separate self standing services to provide more robustness and reusability with other programs.

The queues both have the ability to schedule delivery of electronic files of any type. They also both send multiple email notifications of the status success or failure of this delivery to groups of emails for each type of notification. The sender or sending program also has the option to insert a custom message in the body of the email notifications and that of the email containing the attachment.

The queues expose to any application a set of programming methods for placing items into the queues. This includes the sender and recipient information locations of the files to send and custom messages to include with the notifications and delivered emails. This information is stored in a database that is pooled and updated by both queues. The reader is thus directed to for a diagrammatical depiction of the foregoing.

Troubleshooting the FTP remote works in the following order until a problem is encountered. Based on the point of failure in FTP delivery it can determine and recommend an appropriate remedy. This provides assistance to the end user. 1 Check that the remote host s IP address or domain name is valid 2 Check for connectivity over ICP port 21 and a response of 220 ftp welcome message to determine the presence of an FTP server 3 If an FTP server is not found check for connectivity over TCP port 80 for the presence of a web site. The user can then be advised that it s a web site not an ftp site 4 Check for connection to FTP server using the username and password entered 5 If username and password fail try to connect to FTP server using anonymous mode 6 Attempt to upload a small test file to check for upload permissions and 7 Delete test file from server as a courtesy not as a test requirement.

Preferably the foregoing system is built upon a QUARK Dynamic Document Server QDDS platform. Conceivably the present system could have been built upon a portable document format system but the dynamic document server by QUARK is superior to other current platforms. The QDDS server is a base system for storing reporting and rendering documents. The rendered outputs are used for previews while working on a document and high quality rendering for final outputs. It renders a Qdocument exactly as it would be rendered on the desktop version i.e. QX allowing for advanced text and graphical layout.

The QDDS system however has limitations in terms of its functionality and in this regard certain enhancements to the underlying system were created by way of obtaining complete access to XPtags the result being the online publishing portal of the present invention. The system creates a friendly streamlined front end to enable the typesetting functionality through a web interface. Using complete access to the XPtags and knowing if a text box has overflowed the present system enables the user to fit greatly varying amounts of text into a designated space in a document. Using up to seven different styles for a given place holder in an advertisement it can neatly list between 1 and 65 retail locations in this space. Final type fitting is achieved by adjusting the line spacing in the style and checking for overflowed text. This can generate up to 200 requests to the dynamic document server which it completes in seconds.

Using the ability to copy grouped elements from one document to another end users are able to click on a changeable panel in the user interface and select from a cascading menu pre determined content. This allows them to make major and minor changes in just two clicks while preserving brand integrity with pre determined options. In each option the user is able to make text changes by clicking on a highlighted panel and completing the custom form for that panel. In this case formatting of the text is pre determined as the user is not entering copy but only changing certain offerings.

Thus while the foregoing specifications delineate much specificity the same should not be construed as limiting the invention but as providing a backdrop from which the essence of the present invention emerges. It is contemplated that the branded portions are controlled by a singular ubiquitous source of control wherein the offering or message portions are controlled by a plurality of localized control sources on an as needed basis. This brand control in a network environment for instantly publishing plate ready digitally based documents is novel to the industry.

It is further contemplated that the present invention discloses various inventive aspects stemming from the same core concepts including certain methods for conveying high integrity branded messages to recipients an online publishing portal for publishing high integrity branded messages from desktops in a network environment and a networked system for enabling geographically spaced common brand users to publish locale specific brand controlled messages. Provided with electronic means for conveying a branded message including user based data input and output means publisher based data output means central processing means having certain data stores precompiled and a communication network interconnecting the same it is contemplated that the method for conveying high integrity branded messages to recipients comprises certain steps or methodology. In other words the methodology relies upon certain underlying structure and need.

In this last regard the central processing means or dynamic document server of the present invention necessarily comprises a precompiled template data store a user data store and a publisher data store. The precompiled template data store comprises at least one but preferably a wide selection of pre constructed electronic or digital so called macrotemplates. Each macrotemplate is in a plate ready portable document format for output. The macrotemplate comprises at least one brand microtemplate and at least one message microtemplate. The brand microtemplate conveys or comprises certain brand name information such as a company s trademark and or trade dress and the message microtemplate conveys or comprises certain message information such as an advertising or marketing message. The user data store comprises clearance level data specifically regarding whether certain credentials as input by the user enable access to the microtemplates for alteration.

Thus it is contemplated that the method includes first inputting a user s credentials into the central processing means via the user based data input means and the communication network. The user s credentials are then authenticated as previously specified against the user data store. The authenticated user s credentials provide selective access to the macrotemplate. When accessing the macrotemplate the accessed macrotemplate comprises a select alterable microtemplate the select alterable microtemplate being selected from the group consisting of the brand microtemplate and the message microtemplate. The select alterable microtemplate is selected based upon the user s clearance level and preferably highlighted as specified so that the user more readily recognize those panels or templates that he or she is allowed to alter. In most cases the select alterable template is the message template as most usage of the system is for delivering brand protected or brand controlled messages. Thus if a high level user were to enter high level security clearance credentials he or she would be able to modify either the brand template or the message template whereas a low level user entering low level security clearance credentials is restricted to the open access message template s .

The user may then selectively edit or alter the select alterable microtemplate. After the micro template is altered if necessary the macrotemplate is finalized as previously specified . The finalized macrotemplate is thus checked for predefined errors the predefined errors being defined by a system operator. The user may then select a publisher from the precompiled publisher data store and electronically send the finalized macrotemplate as a digital print ready or plate ready file to the publisher via the communication network. The finalized macrotemplate is thus output to the publisher for publication via the publisher based data output means. Upon receipt of the finalized macrotemplate the selected publisher may then publish the brand information and the message information as compiled upon the finalized macrotemplate. The published brand and message information thus conveying high integrity branded message to recipients.

Notably the central processing means may be defined by a dynamic document server for enabling dynamic document alteration. As previously specified Q based programs tend to require a significant amount of training or experience so as to efficiently create QXPdocuments. The system of the present invention enables pre constructed microtemplates to swapped and assembled into a macrotemplate so that users who are otherwise unskilled in dynamic document alteration are enabled to edit the select microtemplate by common two click methodology. The restricted access template s or microtemplates requiring high level security clearance may be selected from the group consisting of a brand template and a legal notice template it being noted that in addition to brand information legal notice information is also necessarily controlled so that the legal rights of the property owner may be properly protected. The select alterable microtemplate may preferably be highlighted during the step of accessing the macrotemplate.

The method may comprise an additional step after selectively editing the select alterable microtemplate the additional step being reviewing the macrotemplate for finalization. Further the method may comprise an additional step after selectively editing the select alterable microtemplate the additional step being copy fitting the edited select alterable microtemplate the step of copy fitting being automatic as previously specified.

The online publishing portal for publishing high integrity branded messages from desktops in a network environment essentially comprises user authentication means as previously specified and at least one digital selectively alterable macrotemplate the macrotemplate being in a plate ready format. The macrotemplate comprises at least one brand panel and at least one message panel the brand panel comprising brand information the message panel comprising message information. The user authentication means authenticates a user s input credentials and renders a clearance level the clearance level being based upon the user s input credentials. The user s input credentials thus provide selective access to the macrotemplate the selectively accessed macrotemplate comprising a select alterable microtemplate. The select alterable microtemplate is selected from the group consisting of the brand panel and the message panel the select alterable template being selected based upon the clearance level. The select alterable microtemplate is thus editable and the macrotemplate is thus publishable.

The online publishing portal is preferably based from a dynamic document server the dynamic document server for enabling dynamic document alteration. Users unskilled in dynamic document alteration are enabled to edit the select microtemplate via the system as structured. The macrotemplate may comprise at least one legal panel the legal panel being alterable by a high level user. The select alterable microtemplate is highlighted according to the clearance level the highlighted microtemplate prompting the user with panel edit options. The macrotemplate is selectively reviewable as the user may elect. The macrotemplate is preferably finalized or electronically proofed prior to publication substantially as earlier specified. The select alterable microtemplate is preferably automatically copy fittable. The online publishing portal may further preferably comprise a link to a select publisher the macrotemplate being electronically transmittable to the select publisher for publishing the brand information and the message information as compiled upon the macrotemplate. The publishable brand and message information is presented to the select publisher for conveying high integrity branded messages to recipient.

Thus it will be understood the present invention disclose a networked system for enabling geographically spaced common brand users to publish locale specific brand controlled messages or content controlled messages. The networked system comprises means for creating or altering digital plate ready macrotemplates central storage means for storing the macrotemplate means for authorizing selective access to the macrotemplate means for accessing the macrotemplate and means for publishing information compiled upon the macrotemplate. The macrotemplate comprises a plurality of digital plate ready microtemplates the microtemplates comprising at least one brand template and at least one message template. The means for authorizing selective access to the macrotemplate enables users to edit a select microtemplate the select microtemplate being selected from the group consisting of the brand template and the message template. The means for publishing information compiled upon the microtemplate enables users to publish locale specific brand controlled messages. The users have clearance credentials the means for authorizing selective access to the macrotemplate enabling the users to edit the select microtemplate based upon the clearance credentials. The means for accessing the macrotemplate enables unskilled users to edit a select microtemplate. The means for creating digital plate ready macrotemplates central storage means for storing the macrotemplate s and means for authorizing selective access to the macrotemplate s are preferably driven by a dynamic document server.

Accordingly although the invention has been described by reference to a preferred systemic portal it is not intended that the novel processes or systemic portal be limited thereby but that modifications thereof are intended to be included as falling within the broad scope and spirit of the foregoing disclosure the following claims and the appended drawings.

