---

title: Method, computer program and apparatus for extracting large size signal data samples with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio
abstract: A method for rapidly extracting data file samples with an a signal monitor and an automatically adjusted decimation ratio is provided to solve the long-standing problems caused by large data files and small buffers by reducing a large data segment to a smaller, more manageable size automatically so that a lower resolution version of the data segment will be loaded into a fixed-size small buffer in the computer's working space buffer for further data editing. In accordance with the methods of this invention, the segment size will vary during the operation of a means for zooming-in and the decimation ratio is updated and adjusted automatically based on the variation of segment size. The present invention insures that the best resolution of the data segment will be achieved when fitting the varying large size data segment into the fixed small size buffer. The present invention also provides a storage medium encoded with machine-readable computer program code for rapidly extracting data files with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio and an apparatus for rapidly analyzing and editing data files with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07401007&OS=07401007&RS=07401007
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07401007
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070228
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. Patent and Trademark Office application Ser. No. 10 429 350 now abandoned entitled Method Computer Program And Apparatus To Analyze Large Size Signal Data Samples In A Small Buffer Using An Automatically Adjusted Decimation Ratio filed on Apr. 28 2003 by the same inventor. This Continuation In Part is being filed under 37 CFR. 1.53 and priority from the April 28 2003 effective date of the Parent Case Ser. No. 10 429 350 is hereby claimed.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.

The invention generally relates to the sampling collecting extraction and analysis of data files of communication signals with uncertain contents. In particular the invention relates to signal monitoring apparatus and methods that rapidly extract analyze and edit data samples with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio.

Communication signal data collection is an increasingly important aspect of situational awareness surveillance spectrum monitoring and signal analysis with both military and civilian applications. Most recorded communication signal files have a very large data size due to the over sampling in collection and massive recording of signal data with uncertain contents. Generally some current computer or signal processing equipments or software afford only a very limited buffer size for data processing. Due to an order of magnitude size disparity between large communication signal files and limited data processing buffer sizes the review extraction editing and search of the desired signal section in any large communication signal data file with uncertain contents is often a very lengthy time consuming and inefficient process. Additionally the search and tailor procedures employed by the user are also quite labor intensive. Typically a tedious and time consuming repeated prescreen routine requires a user to load the large data file piece by piece into a small buffer for review until the user finally finds the desired data sample segment. One illustrative example of the disparity between the size of a large data signal file and a limited size working space buffer is 10 GB vs. 10 MB. Since the file content is unknown the piece by piece loading and analysis is subject to human error and may miss the desired section.

Thus there has been a long felt need of software or hardware for processes and techniques that overcome the problems disadvantages limitations and shortcomings of Communication signal data collection techniques that require loading large data files piece by piece into a small buffer for further processing. An automated decimation method is needed to extract edit or tailor large files efficiently in a fixed size small buffer. The signal monitoring apparatus and methods using automated decimation ratios will satisfy the long felt need for processes apparatus and software that overcome the numerous problems disadvantages limitations and shortcomings of loading large data files into small buffer areas and the subsequent manual search during communication signal data collection. The present invention provides signal monitoring techniques for extracting data signal samples using an automatically adjusted decimation ratio provide a low resolution preview of the signal envelope zoom in to the signal section of interest using the Graphic User s Interface GUI until getting desired resolution for extracting analyzing and editing data files. The software and devices automatically adjust a decimation ratio that decimates or trims the size of the desired large data segment by reducing the over sampling rate in order to fit into the buffer for further data processing without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art techniques and devices.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a signal monitoring apparatus for rapidly extracting and editing data files with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio that decimates the data file segment provides an adjustable resolution data file segment and identifies the unknown communication signal.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method to rapidly extract the desired signal segment from the large file of the over sampled signal of uncertain contents and edit the data files by automatically decimating the data file sampling rate to better fit the signal into the working space buffer for further analysis and identification.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code with GUI for rapidly extracting and editing data files including signal data files of uncertain contents with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio that decimates the data file to a lower resolution in order to better fit into the working space buffer. Then zoom in to the desired segment using QUI to provide a higher resolution data file segment. The resolution or sampling rate is adjusted automatically with zoom in and zoom out operation performed by GUI until the desired signal section is found and extracted and the Nyquist sampling rate is satisfied.

These and other objects and advantages can now be attained by this invention s signal monitoring methods for rapidly extracting and editing data files with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio comprising the steps of collecting the communication signal with uncertain contents defining a maximum size segment measuring the given data file size calculating a decimation ratio permitting the data file to fit into the working space buffer loading the decimated data file into the working space buffer analyze the decimated data by editing the data based on the signal envelop extracting a desired waveform segment with a means for zooming in to the desired section with a higher resolution. Those are implemented by calculating a starting sample and an ending sample decimating rates and processing the multiple loading steps.

The methods and other embodiments of the present invention will be implemented as a GUI based hardware or software to solve the long standing problem of large data files and small buffers by reducing a large data segment to a smaller more manageable size automatically so that a lower resolution version of the data segment will be loaded into a fixed size small buffer in the computer s working space buffer for further data editing. The segment resolution will vary during the operation of the zooming in means and the decimation ratio is updated and adjusted automatically based on the variation of segment size. The extracting decimating and loading process can be repeated until the user finds the desired data waveform segment with the requisite resolution or sampling rate. The methods of the present invention insure that the best resolution of the extracted data segment will be achieved for analysis and editing when fitting the varying large size data segment into the fixed small size buffer. The present invention also contemplates a signal monitoring device with a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code for rapidly extracting and editing data files with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio and a signal monitoring apparatus for rapidly extracting and editing data files with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio.

Communication signal data collection is an important part of battlefield surveillance spectrum monitoring and signal analysis and there has been a long felt need for signal monitoring systems that provide for rapid extraction and editing of data files to identify an unknown signals. depicts a signal monitoring device for extracting data signal samples using an automatically adjusted decimation ratio a means for zooming in to the signal section of interest a GUI and a means to display the desired data file segment. This invention s method devices and software automatically adjust a decimation ratio that decimates or trims the size of the desired large data segment by reducing the over sampling rate allowing for identification of the unknown signal without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art techniques and devices.

Referring now to there is depicted a signal monitoring device comprising an antenna and communication receiver to collect the signal with unknown contents. Since the signal collection is non cooperative and the signal format and contents are unknown a means for over sampling is needed during digitization of the analog data to insure that no information is lost during data file extraction and signal analysis. A digitized data sample represented by arrow is usually very large in size and is stored in a means for data storage . In many occasions the desired signal section to be extracted is very small in size as compared to the recorded signal data. However to extract the small desired signal data section from the large storage using prior art review techniques is very time consuming and labor intensive. This invention s signal monitor with rapid data extraction allows large size data analysis to occur in real time within a limited size buffer by loading the large signal data with proper decimation rate in order to provide the best signal resolution in the limited buffer space. A stored digitized data sample represented by arrow is sent to a means for data processing . The data processing means further comprises a signal decimation module data buffer and a signal analyzer . The signal analyzer provides a signal analysis output represented by arrow to a Graphic Users Interface GUI . The GUI which is also depicted in illustrates the signal analysis operation of this invention s signal monitor . The GUI reports the maximum number of samples allowing the user to define the staring and ending samples of the signal data. The GUI plots the loaded data in both the frequency domain and time domain. Referring back to the signal analyzer also provides a decimation rate output to a means for decimating data files which will be described in greater detail below and ultimately allows the user can zoom in to and extract the desired signal section for analysis. The GUI also includes many other functions beyond the scope of this invention.

The signal monitor of the present invention can also include a number of variations. For example variations such as decimation rate decimating and loading operations as needed to achieve a more refined resolution extracting and analyzing real data calculating a real data decimation ratio R extracting and analyzing complex data calculating a complex data decimation ratio Rand so forth are considered within the contemplation of the present invention. Additionally the signal monitor of the present invention also contemplate rapidly extracting and editing both data file samples and data signal samples. When the data file is a data signal file the desired data segment is a desired waveform segment the decimated data segment is a decimated waveform segment and the improved resolution data segment is an improved resolution data signal segment. Also the communications receiver can be an interceptor with an antenna.

For a given data file that contains a digitally sampled signal a data segment in the file is defined by the starting data sample and the ending data sample and the devices methods and software of the present invention isolate the data between the starting data sample and ending data sample thorough a process of decimating the data file to a more manageable and workable size that is compatible with a working space buffer of the data processing means . is a block diagram depicting the software operations used in extracting and editing data files with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio in the means for decimating data files .

Referring now to the decimating means further comprises a means for defining the size of a maximum size data segment as represented by Block the working space buffer having a limited size a means for measuring a data file represented by Block determines if the data file exceeds the limited buffer size a means for calculating which is represented by Block calculates the first decimation ratio for fitting the data file into the working space buffer. In Block the decimating means provides a decimated data file and the decimated data file and the decimation ratio are loaded directly from the data storage means into the working space buffer. Block illustrates a means for editing data files that extracts the desired data segment from the decimated data files and a means for zooming in that edits the desired data segment. The calculating means represented by Block automatically adjusts the decimation ratio based on the starting and ending samples. The decimating means decimates the desired data segment and provides a decimated data segment represented by arrow that fits into the working space buffer and the decimated data segment is loaded into the working space buffer to provide an improved resolution data segment for further signal processing and display on a means for display represented by Block . Additionally the signal monitor device of this invention also encompasses rapidly extracting and editing signal data sample files.

The operation of the decimating software of the decimating means is described in further detail as part of this invention s method for rapidly extracting a data signal sample with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio for signal monitoring. The method for rapidly extracting a data file sample begins with the connecting signal collecting digitizing data storing sending and GUI operation steps already described in connection with . Referring back to Block represents a defining step in which a maximum size data segment is defined based on the available or preferable buffer size. The maximum size data segment is chosen in order to view the entire data file such as a signal waveform envelope of data samples without exceeding the limit of the buffer. This is done by editing including zoom in or zoom out operations. Block represents the measuring step during which the actual size of data file is measured at each looping process before the decimation ratio is calculated and the decimated data file is loaded into the working space buffer.

The data file in the maximum size data segment can either be composed of real data or complex data and the appropriate decimation ratio will be calculated for each type of data. A real number has only one data sample i.e. the real sample but the complex number has two data samples which are a real data sample and an imaginary data sample. In the first case of the real number where dis a real data sample in the data file and i 1 2 . . . Lis an integer the following equation represents a data file segment with M data samples that is loaded into a computer s working space buffer for processing d d d . . . d11 and 1 1 If the data has B bytes resolution per sample we have M B bytes for M samples in the segment. Block represents the first calculating step during which a first decimation ratio is calculated that permits a decimated data sample to fit into the working space buffer and then is adjusted later with a second decimation ratio. Calculating the decimation ratio is based on the data and buffer sizes. Furthermore if the buffer has only limited W bytes of space and W

In the case of complex data the data file is denoted by d jd where i 1 2 . . . Lare integers and Lis an even integer and each sample in the data file has a pair of elements as follows d d d d . . . d d11 and 1 4 If the data has B bytes resolution per sample we have 2N B bytes for N number of complex data samples. If the working space buffer has only limited W bytes of space and W

Block represents the loading step wherein the decimated data sample is loaded with the decimation ratio to the working space buffer for improved resolution processing in the Block signal processing and display step or the Blocks repeated steps where further resolution is needed by applying the zoom in editing means to extract the desired waveform segment. Data in the form of a decimated data sample will be loaded to working space with a starting sample ending sample and the automatically adjusted decimation ratio after an editing step represented by Block .

In many cases a zoom in operation will be needed to extract the desired data segment. During the Block editing step the desired data segment is extracted by the zoom in editing means to achieve an improved resolution. Block represents the second calculating step during which a starting sample and an ending sample from the desired data segment are located in order to upgrade the automatically adjusted decimation ratio calculated during the first calculating step. Arrow represents repeating the measuring calculating and loading steps as needed to achieve an improved resolution data segment in the working space buffer for the signal processing and display step in Block . Thus when the parameters p M and Ware given the desired data segment will be defined and the decimation ratio will be calculated.

In operation data files will be decimated to lower resolution decimated data segment and then loaded directly from the data storage means into the smaller working space buffer. During the Block editing step parameters p and M are varying and the automatically adjusted decimation ratio will be calculated adaptively when the starting sample and ending sample are calculated during the Block second calculating step to give the highest available resolution for the desired data segment and the desired data segment will be decimated to form a decimated data segment that is loaded to the working space buffer to form the improved resolution data segment for the user s further analysis to identify the signal with unknown contents. The desired data segment extracted from the previously decimated data files with the zoom in means during the Block second calculating step can be loaded directly from the data storage means with the updated decimation ratio for processing an improved resolution data segment file during the Block signal processing and display step. If the bandwidth of the signal is available or can be estimated a Nyquist sampling rate will be calculated and the signal will be sampled to meet the Nyquist sampling requirement before the digital signal processing.

One example of the decimation methods of the present invention is illustrated by the graphs shown . In this example a pulse function segment of 10 000 data samples and a buffer size of 100 are shown. If the pulse function where t t 8 is sampled to 10 000 samples with 9 800 zeros and 200 ones as shown in and the working space buffer can only hold 100 samples at a time. If the contents of the file are unknown the user would be required to load 100 samples at a time until reaching the front edge of the pulse at sample 9001 because the first 9 000 samples have no information. Because the user is limited to examining only 100 samples at a time the data segment can only hold half of the pulse and the waveform of the pulse function cannot be displayed. The user needs to find a decimation ratio to down sample the data segment before loading the data segment into the buffer which is a very time consuming process when the data file of y k is large. However this invention s method will automatically load 100 samples directly from the data storage means with 98 zeros and 2 ones with a decimation ratio of 100. When the sample data file is decimated the data by a ratio of 100 samples are picked from indices . . . until the end of the data file is reached. depicts a low resolution version of y k . In many cases the low resolution y k may give sufficient envelope description for further analysis and the user could conclude the operation with the Block data processing step. Whenever better resolution of the pulse function is required the desired waveform segment can be extracted from the data segment by the zoom in means based on the user defined boundary to load a new segment using hardware or software controlled by the GUI. During the Block second calculating step a decimation ratio software module will calculate the decimation ratio accordingly based on new data segment size chosen by GUI and automatically reload new samples directly from the data storage means with higher resolution as depicted in . The decimation methods of the present invention provide a much more convenient and efficient technique for analyzing large data files and data signal files in a limited size buffer without suffering from the shortcomings disadvantages and limitations of prior art methods and devices.

The user may obtain x indices by using either GUI or a text editor input. Then the starting sample and the ending sample will be calculated based on the x indices and the new waveform will be loaded from the data storage means from the starting sample index to the ending sample index.

Referring now to the new waveform is loaded from sample 2 111 900 to sample 2 247 700 with a decimation ratio of 14. It should be noted that the waveform has a much higher resolution than the decimation ratio of 286. The signal waveform has six bursts. In many applications when only a single burst of the desired waveform segment is of interest the zoom in editing means can be used to load the first burst directly from the original waveform file from sample 2 122 001 to sample 2 132 000 as shown in . Since the waveform has only 10 000 samples the decimation will no longer be needed and a full resolution waveform will be presented. The decimation ratio is updated each time when the zoom in editing means is operated and the data samples in the working space buffer will always equal or be less than 10 000.

Referring now to that graph illustrates yet a higher resolution after employing the zoom in editing means to extract the first burst from the original data file starting from sample 2 122 001 to sample 2 132 000.

Other examples of the operation of the present invention are depicted in . The collected raw data samples of an unknown signal can be displayed in time domain display as shown in in frequency domain display as shown in and in in phase and quadrature IQ display after automatic decimation as shown in . It is noted that the time domain display consists of three waveform sections starting from left to right with a guiding sequence section a noise section and a data section. In order to analyze the unknown data frequency domain display and IQ display will be used. However the frequency domain display in and the IQ display in are both contaminated by the guiding sequence and noise and the signal feature will not be displayed properly. The invention uses the GUI to take snapshots of waveform sections as shown in .

Since the detailed snapshots with all signal features are much smaller in size as compared to the raw data samples the software automatically recalculates the decimation rate in every resizing or zooming step and loads the snapshot section into a display means. We can observe that the uncontaminated frequency domain displays have been obtained as shown in where shows the impulse like spectrum which indicates the feature of a guiding sequence where shows the flat spectrum which indicates the feature of white noises and where shows the bell shaped spectrum which indicates the feature of a linearly modulated signal. Since the modulated signal is the desired section for further signal analysis and feature extraction it is sent to the Block signal processing and display step for center frequency removal and down sampling. An IQ display of the desired section after extraction and processing is shown in which demonstrates a shifted square pattern consists of 16 noisy clusters. The shifted clusters are important modulation features for classifying an unknown signal. The shift shows the signal has an initial modulation phase of 58 degrees and the 16 noisy clusters indicate that the signal has a modulation scheme of 16QAM. Comparing the raw data in with the processed data in and raw data in with the processed data in those skilled in the art will readily observe this invention s significant improvements over the prior art. As a result the unknown raw signal data is identified as a 16QAM modulated signal by using the GUI based computer aided editing. The software is running automatically according to GUI instructions. At this stage many further signal identification techniques can be easily employed.

The methods of the present invention can also include a number of variations that are similar to the variations for the signal monitor device such as repeating the calculating decimating and loading steps as needed to achieve better resolution. Other variations include the steps of analyzing real data calculating a real data decimation ratio R extracting complex data calculating a complex data decimation ratio Rand so forth. Additionally the methods of the present invention also contemplate rapidly extracting and editing both data file samples and data signal samples with an automatically adjusted decimation ratio.

The present invention can be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of computer program code embodied in tangible media such a floppy diskettes CD ROM s hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments combine with the microprocessor to provide a unique device that operates analogously to specific logic circuits.

The present invention also encompasses a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code for rapidly extracting data file samples from an unknown signal with automatically adjusted decimation ratios for signal monitoring. Referring back to the computer program embodiment of this invention comprises an antenna communication receiver to collect the signal with unknown contents a means for over sampling providing a digitized data sample stored in a data storage means . A stored digitized data sample is sent to a data processing means . The data processing means further comprises a signal decimation module data buffer and a signal analyzer that provides a signal analysis output to a GUI and a decimation rate output to the decimation means . Referring now to a means for causing the computer to define a maximum size data segment defines a maximum size data segment Block a means for causing the computer to measure data files Block determines if the data file exceeds the limited working space buffer size and a first means for calculating Block calculates the automatically adjusted decimation ratio for fitting the data file into the working space buffer. A means for causing the computer to decimate the data file retrieves the data file from a data storage means and provides a decimated data file and the decimated data file is loaded into the working space buffer as represented by Block a means for causing the computer to edit data files extracts a desired data segment from the decimated data files and a means for zooming in Block edits the desired data segment. Block represents a second calculating means calculating a starting sample and an ending sample of the desired data segment. The second calculating means automatically adjusts the decimation ratio based on the starting and ending samples the decimating means decimates the desired data segment and provides a decimated data segment fitting the working space buffer and loading the decimated data segment into the working space buffer provides an improved resolution data segment for signal processing editing and further identification of the unknown signal. Additionally the computer program embodiment of this invention also encompasses rapidly analyzing and editing either data file samples or data signal file samples.

The variations in method of the present invention also apply to the computer program and apparatus embodiments of this invention. The signal monitor device embodiment of this invention may be a means for data processing a computer or hardware.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

