---

title: Ripple reduction in electromagnetic launcher current from pulsed alternators
abstract: Systems and methods for improving the current pulse from multiple pairs of pulsed alternators used for driving large loads such as an electromagnetic launcher (i.e., “rail gun”) load. Conventional current pulse ripples are reduced by interleaving pulses from multiple pairs of contra-rotating pulsed alternators. Current pulses supplied by different pairs of pulsed alternators are timed so that they are interspersed between one another to provide more pulses for a given launch time. The interleaved current pulses increase the frequency and reduce the magnitude of the ripple on the average load current.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07832385&OS=07832385&RS=07832385
owner: Curtiss-Wright Electro-Mechanical Corporation
number: 07832385
owner_city: Cheswick
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071212
---
The United States Government may have certain rights in the present invention pursuant to Contract No. N000014 06 D 0046 with the Department of Defense and the United States Navy DoD Navy .

The present invention relates generally to pulsed alternator current sources and more particularly the present invention is directed to systems and methods for utilizing multiple pairs of pulsed alternators with an interleaved pulse control mechanism to drive large electromagnetic launcher loads.

It is well known in the art that specialized rotating generators can be used to store kinetic energy and convert it to high current electrical energy in the millisecond time frame. Such generators called pulsed alternators can be used to drive electromagnetic launcher loads that are used to propel a projectile or other object along an intended path. One application of these launchers is for high energy electromagnetic launchers in the form of rail guns. These rail guns use a pulsed power system to launch a projectile very long distances with a high degree of accuracy and are especially suited for mobile design onboard a ship or mobile gun turret .

The pulsed alternator s high degree of rotating stored energy and extreme torques generated during discharge mandate that a torque and inertia management scheme be employed to control the reaction transmitted to the system base structure. To address the high torque of these large machines pairs of pulsed alternators with contra rotating rotors are used to mitigate the reaction torque effects. By spinning in opposite directions the torque from each pulsed alternator tends to cancel each other and the total torque on the system base structure approaches a negligible value.

Therefore when used as pulsed power sources pulsed alternator systems are configured with single or multiples pairs of contra rotating machines generators . The more pairs of machines that are used the higher the amount of energy that can be stored and subsequently released. For high energy applications such as a rail gun several pairs of pulsed alternators may be needed. The present invention is most pertinent to pulsed power sources in which multiple pairs of pulsed alternators are utilized.

In multiple alternator systems each of the pulsed alternators is characterized by an AC alternating current output. In conventional pulsed alternator systems the AC generator outputs are rectified with identical gating pulses sent to the rectifier switches for each rotating machine. Such an identical gating scheme causes each of the pulsed alternators to be in phase. Therefore the current pulses from each machine add together in phase to produce a DC direct current current pulse. Likewise in conventional systems with multiple pairs of pulsed alternators all rectifier switches for each output are identically controlled and current from all the machines would be added together in phase. While such a gating scheme allows all of the output current from each of the alternators to be added together for the highest possible output current it also produces a typical load current pulse with a ripple as shown in .

Ideally the high energy electromagnetic launcher load requires a smooth DC current pulse with as little ripple as possible e.g. a square wave . Pulsed power sources including multiple pairs of pulsed alternators that can reduce or eliminate this unwanted ripple are continually sought in the art. The present invention through its disclosed embodiments addresses one or more of the above described limitations of the prior art to provide a pulsed power source with improved output current characteristics.

There is broadly contemplated herein in accordance with at least one presently preferred embodiment of the present invention a pulsed power system comprising a first pair of pulsed alternators at least a second pair of pulsed alternators and a control system that combines a first current output from the first pair of pulsed alternators with a second current output from the second pair of pulsed alternators into a load current wherein the first current output and the second current output are interleaved with each other in the load current.

Further there is broadly contemplated herein in accordance with at least one presently preferred embodiment of the present invention an electromagnetic rail gun comprising two gun rails a projectile slidingly engaged between the rails a first pair of pulsed alternators at least a second pair of pulsed alternators and a control system that combines a first current output from the first pair of pulsed alternators with a second current output from the second pair of pulsed alternators into a load current applied to the rails wherein the first current output and the second current output are interleaved with each other in the load current.

In addition there is broadly contemplated herein in accordance with at least one presently preferred embodiment of the present invention a method of generating pulsed power the method comprising the steps of generating a first pulsed current output generating a second pulsed current output and combining the first current output with the second current output into a load current wherein the first current output and the second current output are interleaved with each other in the load current.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements that may be well known. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other elements are desirable and or required in order to implement the present invention. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein. The detailed description will be provided herein below with reference to the attached drawings.

The present invention in at least one preferred embodiment provides systems and methods for controlling the current output of a pulsed power source including multiple pairs of pulsed alternators. Through the selective triggering of the outputs of the various different pulsed alternators the unwanted ripple in the load current can be reduced or eliminated. Such a ripple drastically reduces the ability to control the output current which renders the pulsed power source non ideal when used to control an electromagnetic launcher such as an electromagnetic rail gun.

The theoretical physics underpinning an electromagnetic launcher such as a rail gun are readily known although practical applications of such a system are only now coming to fruition. In essence a projectile is made to accelerate down the long axis of two or more rails until it escapes from the gun barrel. The acceleration is imparted on the projectile from firing one or more high current pulses down the rails to push the projectile out of the barrel. In order to accelerate a large projectile to a high velocity the current pulses must be very large. However in order to control the flight path and landing area of the projectile the current must also have a very tight tolerance.

In more detail for a rail gun to be effective the projectile must be accelerated to a high velocity with a large amount of kinetic energy. The accuracy of the rail gun as an artillery device depends upon the precise control of the projectile muzzle velocity v . For a general rail gun application it will additionally be preferred to control the discharge of multiple projectiles in rapid succession.

The rail gun system generally comprises several components that perform these critical functions. A device or subsystem is provided to generate a specified large amount of energy prior to a discharge sequence e.g. the pulsed alternators . Another device or subsystem is then provided to control the delivery of the energy from the source to the rail gun. The large discharge current delivered to the rails forms orthogonal magnetic and electric fields that expand behind the projectile and forces the projectile to accelerate over the length of the rails to the gun muzzle. Additional information about such a general rail gun is set forth in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 084 226 entitled Closed Loop Defined Profile Current Controller For Electromagnetic Rail Gun Applications which was filed on Mar. 17 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As set forth above to generate the large current pulses needed for an electromagnetic launcher a specialized generator known as a pulsed alternator is most applicable. The pulsed alternator is characterized by a high rotating stored energy compared to other generators and large rotational torques. However this high rotating stored energy and the extreme torques generated during discharge mandate that a torque and inertia management scheme be employed to control the reaction transmitted to the system base structure. A specialized pulsed power system is therefore employed.

Also the individual outputs of each machine are connected to controlled rectifiers which are also referred to as a load converter. The controlled rectifiers convert the machine s AC outputs to DC. The system also includes a rectifier controller which provides appropriate gating pulses to activate the rectifier switches controlled rectifiers at precise times. The outputs of the four rectifiers are connected together and are fed to the breech end of the electromagnetic launcher . also illustrates the general power flow in the system.

In existing pulsed alternator systems the AC generator outputs are rectified with identical gating pulses sent to the rectifier switches controlled rectifiers for each pulsed alternator machine. Such a synchronized system adds the current pulses from each machine together in phase to product a DC current pulse. In systems with multiple pairs of machines such as that shown in all rectifier switches are identically controlled and current from all the machines is added together in phase. This produces a typical load current pulse with a ripple as shown in and described above. Ideally the high energy electromagnetic launcher load requires a smooth DC current pulse with as little ripple as possible.

In more detail shows the simulated load current pulse from a conventional two pair pulsed alternator system with identical gating signals supplied to all four load converters. At the lower portion of the figure the output current from each of the two pairs of pulsed alternators PA Pair Current PA Pair Current is depicted. Note that each of the pairs of pulsed alternators is theorized to be identical so the two pulsed alternator current outputs are the same. At the upper portion of the EM gun current is shown after the output currents from the two paired pulsed alternator subsystems are combined with each other. Here it can be seen that the small ripples found in each of the paired alternator currents are added to each other in the load current. In the example the maximum peak peak ripple is 393 000 Amps 10.2 of the average load current . This is not acceptable for many electromagnetic launcher applications such as rail guns.

The systems and methods of the present invention address this ripple current problem by employing a control scheme in which the current pulses from different pairs of pulsed alternators are timed so that they are interleaved between each other to provide more current pulses for a given launch time. shows the simulated current pulses using a control scheme according to the present invention. As an example the control scheme of utilizes two pairs of pulsed alternator current sources. Rather than triggering the outputs of each of the pulsed alternators at the same time as in the control mechanism interleaves the pulsed alternator outputs to reduce the ripple effect described above.

Specifically shows the individual current outputs from two different sets of counter rotating pulsed alternators PA Pair Current PA Pair Current . The ripples from each of the individual alternator pairs are timed such that the peaks high current of the first alternator pair current matches with the troughs low current of the second alternator pair. Likewise the troughs of the first alternator pair align with the current peaks from the second alternator pair. When the gun current after the combination of the two pulsed alternator pair outputs is examined it is shown that the ripples are reduced by the timing and amplitude adjustments of the control system. In this way the load current can be more closely controlled and the load current more closely resembles the preferred DC pulse.

In the exemplary embodiment of the pulses from two pairs of pulsed alternator machines are 45 electrical degrees apart from each other. The maximum load current ripple is 118 000 amps peak peak 3 of the average load current . Therefore when compared to the prior system results shown in the control scheme according to the present invention reduced the maximum peak peak load current ripple by 275 000 Amps or 70 . The control scheme of the present invention is similarly applicable to systems with more than two pairs of pulsed alternators and more complicated control schemes that interleave two or more pairs of pulsed alternator currents can be employed within the teachings of the present invention as readily recognized by those skilled in the pertinent art.

Some further details regarding a control scheme in accordance with at least one presently preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be discussed. Prior to discharging current to the load the control system preferably maintains a constant difference in rotor angular position between the various pulsed alternator pairs. A separate electric motor is connected to each pulsed alternator shaft to charge the pulsed alternator rotors with kinetic energy by spinning them up to high speeds.

A solid state motor drive connected to each charging motor controls the speed and rotor position of each pulsed alternator while rotor speed is increased to store energy and increase the field current prior to the discharge of load current. The charging drives are phase locked with a phase locked loop controller in order to maintain identical speeds for each pulsed alternator and to maintain the required constant rotor angular difference between the pulsed alternator pairs.

The solid state charging drives and charging motors are disengaged and do not control alternator speed and rotor angle during discharge. The load current follows a desired output current profile as current flows from the pulsed alternators through the load converter rectifiers to the load. The control system uses an open loop strategy with a rotor position based lookup table to control the load converter rectifiers. One lookup table is used for each pulsed alternator pair. Each lookup table determines when load converter pulses are produced based on the position of the pulsed alternator rotor.

In a variant alternate embodiment a closed loop current controller could be used to determine when load converter pulses are produced based on the position of the pulsed alternator rotor and the difference between the desired current profile and the actual load current.

It should be readily understood and appreciated that the embodiments of the present invention as discussed and contemplated herein can be applicable to a very wide variety of contexts. Accordingly for instance while the use of two pairs of pulsed alternators has been discussed in some detail hereinabove it should be understood that three or four or even more pairs of pulsed alternators can readily be employed in the context of the embodiments of the present invention. As such one or more additional current outputs from one or more additional pairs of pulsed alternators would be combined into the load current.

Preferably in the context of three or more pairs of pulsed alternators a delay will be imposed on the third current output with respect to the second current output while a delay on a fourth current output if any will be imparted to the third current output and so forth. Thus generally the control circuit will preferably impart a delay in a current output with respect to an immediately preceding current output.

As discussed heretofore in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention a control system preferably imparts 45 electrical degrees of delay in a second current output when compared to a first current output when there are two total pairs of pulsed alternators. On the other hand if there are three total pairs of pulsed alternators then the control system preferably imparts 30 electrical degrees of delay in the second current output when compared to the first current output as well as 30 electrical degrees of delay in the third current output when compared to the second current output. Generally then given a total number N of pulsed alternators pairs the control system will preferably impart 90 N electrical degrees of delay in a given current output when compared to an immediately preceding current output.

Nothing in the above description is meant to limit the present invention to any specific materials geometry or orientation of elements. Many part orientation substitutions are contemplated within the scope of the present invention and will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The embodiments described herein were presented by way of example only and should not be used to limit the scope of the invention.

Although the invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments in an application one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings herein can generate additional embodiments and modifications without departing from the spirit of or exceeding the scope of the claimed invention. Accordingly it is understood that the drawings and the descriptions herein are proffered only to facilitate comprehension of the invention and should not be construed to limit the scope thereof.

