---

title: Method and system for processing fraud notifications
abstract: Methods and systems for processing fraud notifications allow an organization to classify, monitor, and shut down fraudulent websites. A system may receive reports of suspicious network sites via electronic mail, and parse such reports in order to obtain one or more attributes (e.g., an address) corresponding to the suspicious network sites. In addition, information related to these suspicious network sites may be stored in a database, and algorithms may be used in order to classify, monitor, and respond to a particular suspicious network site. Before responding to a suspicious network site, such a website may first be classified as legitimate, fraudulent or ignore. If the suspicious network site is classified as legitimate or ignore, further action might not be needed. If, however, the suspicious network site is classified as fraudulent, the fraudulent website may be monitored and further action may be taken.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08131742&OS=08131742&RS=08131742
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08131742
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
With the growth of online transactions organizations that provide online services must protect their customers from an increasing threat of fraud and identity theft. A growing concern for such organizations is the practice of phishing which involves tricking a user into visiting a fraudulent website that appears to be a legitimate website and then soliciting personal information from the user. Thus the user may be fooled into giving away personal information such as his or her name address social security number account number password and or Personal Identification Number PIN via the fraudulent website. This personal information may then be used by the operators of the fraudulent website or others to steal the user s identity and or make purchases under the user s name and account. In addition the longer that any one particular fraudulent website is online the greater the number of users it may be able to defraud.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. The Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A method and system for processing fraud alerts and identifying fraudulent sites allows an organization to classify monitor and shut down fraudulent site such as websites in an efficient manner. A system for combating online fraud may include computer servers that receive reports of suspicious sites via electronic mail and parse such reports in order to obtain addresses corresponding to such sites. In addition information related to these suspicious sites may be stored in a database and algorithms may be used to classify monitor and respond to a particular suspicious phishing site. These algorithms may include statistical analysis regular expressions and or other rule based analysis. Before responding to a suspicious site such a site may first be classified as legitimate or fraudulent. If the suspicious site is classified as legitimate it might not be necessary to take further action. On the other hand if the suspicious site is classified as fraudulent the fraudulent site may then be monitored and further action such as sending a cease and desist letter to the owner of the IP address corresponding to the fraudulent site or an owner of the domain may be taken.

According to one aspect an electronic message that indicates an address of a suspicious site may be received by a processing server. The processing server may determine the address of the suspicious site by parsing the electronic message determining if the suspicious site corresponds to an address already stored in a database determining if the site has been previously investigated and classifying the suspicious site based on a fraudulence probability assessment. For example a site may be classified by comparing attributes of the suspicious site with one or more classification criteria such as expression matching misspellings domain names and the like. The suspicious site may be classified as legitimate fraudulent or ignored. In addition the fraudulence probability assessment may be based upon statistical analysis regular expressions and or other rule based analysis as applied to the source code and or linked content of the suspicious site and may also be based upon analysis of other fraudulent sites historical data and or information relating to or provided by the suspicious site s service provider.

According to one or more aspects the system may include a user interface that allows a backend user to manually override one or more automatic processes and or extract information that results from the execution of such processes. In addition the user interface may allow the analyst to interact with one or more back office servers that may function in combination.

In the following description of various illustrative embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed subject matter may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present claimed subject matter.

Computer may output data through a variety of components and devices. As mentioned above one such output device may be display . Another output device may include an audio output device such as speaker . Each output device and may be associated with an output adapter such as display adapter and audio adapter which translates processor instructions into corresponding audio and video signals. In addition to output systems computer may receive and or accept input from a variety of input devices such as keyboard storage media drive and or microphone not shown . As with output devices and each of the input devices and may be associated with an adapter for converting the input into computer readable recognizable data. In one example voice input received through microphone not shown may be converted into a digital format and stored in a data file. In another example credit card input may be received through a card reader not shown and converted into a digital format. In one or more instances a device such as media drive may act as both an input and output device allowing users to both write and read data to and from the storage media e.g. DVD R CD RW etc. .

Computer may further include one or more communication components for receiving and transmitting data over a network. Various types of networks include cellular networks digital broadcast networks Internet Protocol IP networks and the like. Computer may include adapters suited to communicate through one or more of these networks. In particular computer may include network adapter for communication with one or more other computer or computing devices over an IP network. In one example adapter may facilitate transmission of data such as electronic mail messages and or financial data over a company or organization s network. In another example adapter may facilitate transmission or receipt of information from a world wide network such as the Internet. Adapter may include one or more sets of instructions relating to one or more networking protocols. For example adapter may include a first set of instructions for processing IP network packets as well as a second set of instructions associated with processing cellular network packets. In one or more arrangements network adapter may provide wireless network access for computer .

One of skill in the art will appreciate that computing devices such as computer may include a variety of other components and is not limited to the devices and systems described in .

Application server may be configured to store instructions on and or execute instructions from a computer readable medium that incorporates one or more aspects described herein. For example application server may be configured to store instructions on and or execute instructions from a computer readable medium that perform the steps of one or more of the methods described below. Application server may further be configured to monitor processes involving web traffic over a proxy server e.g. server . For example application server may be responsible for performing DNS and WHOIS lookups for cease and desist notice generation and may be further configured to fetch obtain content for any URI. Additionally or alternatively application server may scan potential phish sites and compare the content of the sites with predefined criteria or known baselines. In one or more configurations a messaging application programming interface MAPI may be used to manage e.g. monitor messages reporting potential phishing sites to archive such messages and to construct cease and desist messages.

Database server may be configured to store various types and amounts of data. In one or more arrangements database server may be configured to store Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs IP addresses and or unique identifiers corresponding to one or more websites. In addition database server may be further configured to store information for identifying a service provider such as an Internet Service Provider ISP that corresponds to particular IP addresses. Corporate server may be configured to host a corporate intranet or other private network which may store and provide access to status reports metrics and other information. For example corporate server may host a corporate intranet which stores and provides access to reports and metrics based upon information such as the volume of electronic messages received the elapsed time between receipt of a particular electronic message and its corresponding classification and or investigation the elapsed time between receipt of a particular electronic message and the sending of a responsive cease and desist letter the elapsed time between receipt of a particular electronic message and the shutdown of a corresponding suspicious website the elapsed time between sending a cease and desist letter and the shutdown of a corresponding suspicious website time to ISP response and other information. Other examples of metrics or reports that may be generated include speed metrics capacity metrics quality metrics risk metrics and cost metrics. Speed metrics may include the speed of site shutdown speed of sending cease and desist letter time between transmission of cease and desist letter and site shutdown. Cost metrics may include the monthly cost of an abuse team. Risk metrics may include a number of phish sites identified per time period count of phish sites up at the end of each time period and or the number of phish sites identified versus phish sites shut down. Quality metrics may include the number of sites that are incorrectly categorized.

Proxy server may be configured to provide access to an external network for its client computers . Since all traffic within a network environment must generally pass through proxy server proxy server may control what sites are accessible to client computer . In addition proxy server may further be configured to operate as a firewall. That is proxy server might permit certain requests and deny others. Gateway server on the other hand may be configured to act as a load reduction system that helps to parse out spam or other unwanted data directed to client computers . Gateway server may also be configured for domain forwarding and for adding destination IPs and domain names. Further in one or more arrangements gateway server may be configured to perform lookup services such as querying DNS querying whois collecting site source code e.g. for use in a site status operation and anonymizing the collection of such data. Anonymization may be accomplished by placing or positioning gateway server outside of an organization s network such that the gateway server s IP address might not be associated with the organization. Further by placing gateway server outside of the organization s network environment sites that might be restricted by proxy server may be accessible to gateway server .

The system environment may further comprise a network a fraudulent website and a Domain Name System DNS server . A fraudulent website may be any website that solicits or attempts to solicit information from a user for illegitimate purposes. A fraudulent website may also be referred to as a phish or phishing site. In one example a fraudulent website may impersonate a legitimate website in order to solicit or attempt to solicit personal information such as a user s name address social security number account number password and or Personal Identification Number PIN . DNS server may be configured to provide various services including DNS lookup services and WHOIS querying services. These DNS lookup services may allow a user to determine an IP address corresponding to a particular domain name and these WHOIS querying services may allow a user to determine the owner of a particular IP address.

According to one or more aspects one or more of the systems of e.g. email server application server database server proxy server corporate server and or gateway server may implement a method for identifying classifying and terminating fraudulent websites. is a flowchart illustrating one such method for identifying and classifying suspicious sites e.g. websites . In step an electronic message may be received. This message may include for example an e mail sent by a user indicating an address of a suspicious site. The user may have received the e mail message from an operator of a suspicious site and have subsequently forwarded the potentially malicious and fraudulent e mail message to a legitimate organization to report the fraudulent site. In one configuration an electronic message may contain one or more Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs and or IP addresses that are associated with one or more suspicious sites. Additionally responsive to receiving a first electronic message that may indicate an address of a suspicious site a second electronic message in reply may be sent to the sender of the first electronic message. For example in response to receiving an electronic message reporting a suspicious site from a user the system may automatically send an electronic message to the user acknowledging receipt of the user s electronic message. In one or more arrangements a user s password may automatically be reset when a user reports a suspicious site or when a user reports submitting his or her personal information to a suspicious site. In such configurations the electronic message that is automatically sent by the system may provide the user with a new password and or instructions explaining how to obtain a new password and or reset his or her previous password. Alternatively or additionally an automatic response may be generated for emails reporting possible phish sites advising the reporting user not to follow any links in the email. Various other responses may also be generated and sent.

In step the electronic message may be parsed to extract various pieces of information included therein. For example a regular expression or other algorithm may be applied to the electronic message in order to determine what if any URIs and or IP addresses are contained in the electronic message. Additionally other message related information may be extracted through application of a regular expression or other algorithm such as the sender s email address the date the message was sent the date the message was received the server from which the message originated and the like. In one or more configurations a regular expression may be a string that is used to locate text in other strings. For example the regular expression http or http may be applied to the source code of the message in order to locate all instances in the message where a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP URI is mentioned wherein or character may represent wildcards in a search. In step an address of a suspicious site may be obtained from the parsing and extraction performed in step . For example application of a regular expression to the electronic message may return the result of a particular URI and this particular URI may correspond to a suspicious site.

In step it may be determined whether the obtained extracted address is already in a database configured to store addresses and other information related to suspicious sites. For example a search operation may be performed on the database in this search operation the address may be compared to other addresses the other addresses having been previously inserted into the database. If it is determined that the address is already in the database a count value that represents the number of times a particular address has been reported may be incremented and the method may end because further processing might not be required. If on the other hand it is determined that the address is not already in the database then in step the address may be inserted into the database.

In step it may be determined whether the suspicious site corresponding to the address is unique. Various search strategies and methodologies may be used including string matching image analysis and or natural language analysis. The comparison of the suspicious site to information previously stored in a database may be used to assess whether the suspicious site is substantially similar to a suspicious site to which the organization was previously alerted. In addition even though it may have been determined that the exact address of the suspicious site is not already in the database the suspicious site s address may still originate from the same domain name. If it is determined that the suspicious site is not unique then in step the electronic message may be associated with an existing unique identifier and the method may end. In one or more arrangements this existing unique identifier may correspond to the identifier associated with the known or previously investigated site. If on the other hand it is determined that the suspicious site is unique then in step the electronic message or site address may be associated with a new identifier.

If the site is determined to be unique then in step the system may determine whether one or more characteristics of the suspicious site matches one or more classification criteria. Classification criteria may include known fraudulent domains network IDs host IDs known fraudulent organizations and the like. In one example classification criteria may include various portions and characteristics of site addresses e.g. misspellings . In one example a system may evaluate similarities between a URI and or IP address corresponding to the particular suspicious site and URIs and or IP addresses corresponding to known fraudulent sites. As an example the system may apply a regular expression to the suspicious URL http securityalert www.financial institution.com repution Online FI Banking UpdatingScreen.dostate XX updating.cfmpage corp ficom FinancialInstitutionScreen.dostate XX security banking online update information ficom to search for phrases i.e. classification criteria that are known to appear in addresses corresponding to known fraudulent sites such as common misspellings of Finacnial Institution. In one or more configurations a Bayesian filter or other text classification algorithm may be used to determine the likelihood a site or message is phishing related. Historical classification of sites and messages may serve to create a dictionary or database of phishing related words and non phishing related words.

If one or more characteristics of the suspicious site matches the one or more classification criteria the system may then determine if the classification criteria are indicative of a legitimate site in step . For example some classification criteria may be derived from previously processed suspicious sites. Thus if a determination was made that the previously processed suspicious sites are legitimate then the derived classification criteria may also be considered to be indicators of legitimacy. Thus if one or more characteristics of a suspicious site matches one or more classification criteria indicative of legitimacy the site being processed and evaluated may also be classified as legitimate. Accordingly if the site is determined to be legitimate based on the various classification criteria the site may be marked as valid in step and the process may end as no further action may be needed for legitimate sites. Other or additional classification criteria may include characteristics of different forms of phishing such as spearphish whaling Man in the Middle MITM Browser in the Middle BITM Rock Phish or other newly developed phish techniques. In one or more arrangements a user may manually navigate to the suspicious site to ascertain various characteristics of the site.

If however the characteristics of the suspicious site do not match the one or more classification criteria or if the matched criteria are not indicative of legitimacy external data may be collected by performing a DNS lookup operation and or a WHOIS query in step . The lack of a match may be indicative of a fraudulent site or of worth for further investigation. External data may be collected by submitting a request to DNS server via gateway server in order to lookup the IP address of the suspicious site. In making such a request a URI corresponding to the particular address and or other information may be submitted for example to DNS server . In addition other external data may also be collected by performing a WHOIS query for instance which may allow a system or user to determine the owner of a particular IP address.

In step the suspicious site may be monitored. A suspicious site may be monitored manually by an analyst however in one or more arrangements a suspicious site may be monitored automatically by an algorithm. For example statistical analysis regular expressions and or other rule based analysis may be applied to the source code and or linked content of the suspicious site in order to monitor the suspicious site. In other words in one or more configurations user input might not be required in order to monitor a suspicious site.

In step it may be determined whether the status of the suspicious site has changed. For example based on antecedent monitoring of the suspicious site it may be determined that the status of the suspicious site has changed from fraudulent to legitimate or vice versa or it may be determined that the status of the suspicious site has changed from online to offline or vice versa. According to one aspect certain rules may be used to determine if a site is no longer likely a phish site. For example if a site has no forms scripting and or refresh tags the likelihood that the site is a phish site may be smaller. If it is determined that the status of the suspicious site has not changed then in step a cease and desist letter or other notice may be sent or given to the owner of the particular IP address corresponding to the suspicious site. Subsequently in step internal and or external investigators may be automatically alerted or otherwise informed about the suspicious site. In addition the suspicious site may be subject to continuous monitoring and step may be repeated one or more times so as to determine whether the status of the suspicious site has changed. Also additional cease and desist letters or other forms of notice may be automatically sent or given to the owner of the particular IP address corresponding to the suspicious site. Stated differently in one or more configurations user input might not be required in order to send cease and desist letters or give other forms of notice to the owner of the particular IP address corresponding to the suspicious site.

If on the other hand it is determined that the status of the suspicious site has changed then in step it may be determined whether the suspicious site is offline legitimate and or no longer suspicious for other reasons. If it is determined that the suspicious site is offline legitimate and or no longer suspicious for other reasons then the method may end. If on the other hand it is determined that the suspicious site is not offline legitimate and or no longer suspicious for other reasons then step may be repeated one or more times so as to determine whether the status of the suspicious site has changed. In one or more arrangements the system may determine if a change has taken place over a predefined amount of time e.g. 24 hours before determining if action is needed.

According to one or more aspects step may be omitted. For example in some cases it may be advantageous to automatically alert or otherwise inform internal or external investigators without sending a cease and desist letter or otherwise giving notice to the owner or operator of the suspicious site. For instance if the suspicious site were hosted on a server owned or operated by an illegitimate individual or organization or if a person directly responsible for the suspicious site would be the recipient of a cease and desist letter the internal and or external investigators may be better able to investigate the suspicious site and the person s and or organization s responsible for it if such investigation went undetected by the person s and or organization s responsible for the suspicious site. In these circumstances or others it may be advantageous to omit step .

In one or more configurations an expiration date may be attached to a classification of a particular site such that on or after the expiration date the classification of the particular site may expire and the particular site may be classified again. For example a site classified on January 1 may have an expiration date of March 1 attached to its classification such that on March 1 the site is again classified as legitimate or fraudulent or ignore. Thus attaching an expiration date to the classification of a particular suspicious site may address situations where a phishing site is first shut down and subsequently comes back online.

According to one or more aspects the user interface may also include Sort By control . In the illustrated arrangement the Sort By control may be a pull down menu and may allow a user to select and or change the manner in which the listing of suspicious websites is displayed. For example a user may interact with the Sort By control and select a different sort option to apply to the listing of suspicious websites . A user may for instance select to sort the listing of suspicious websites by old to new new to old descending count value ascending count value alphabetical reverse alphabetical descending first seen date or descending last seen date. Depending on the sort method as selected by a user through the Sort By control the user interface may include a status message . For example as seen in if a user selects a descending count value option the status message may contain relevant text indicating the number of URLs with a high count value. The user interface may also include export link and refresh link . Export link may for example allow a user to export data relating to the listing of suspicious websites as further discussed below with respect to . In addition Refresh link may for example allow a user to refresh the listing of suspicious websites .

Additionally the listing of suspicious websites may comprise a header bar and one or more list elements . The header bar may include one or more column headings and these column headings may be hyperlinks. For example the header bar may contain Action heading First Seen heading Last Seen heading Count heading and URL heading . In addition activating a hyperlink corresponding to a column heading may for example select and or change the manner in which the listing of suspicious websites is displayed. A list element may include various sub elements and these sub elements may be hyperlinks. For example a list element may include a select link a DNS link a first seen date a last seen a count value and a URL . The select link may allow a user to access more information about the suspicious website corresponding to the particular list element . For example a user may activate select link and then view a user interface displaying a form that allows the user to classify the suspicious website as further discussed below with respect to . The DNS link may allow a user to perform a DNS lookup operation and or WHOIS query on the URI or IP address corresponding to the particular list element . In one example a domain bbc.co.uk may be extracted from an URI such as http news.bbc.co.uk . The WHOIS query may thus in one or more configurations be run on the domain. The first seen date may indicate the date at which the suspicious website corresponding to the particular list element was first reported classified and or monitored. Similarly the last seen date may indicate the date at which the suspicious website corresponding to the particular list element was last reported classified and or monitored. The count value may indicate the number of times the suspicious website corresponding to the particular list element has been reported and or the number of electronic mail messages received. The URL may indicate a URI or IP address related to the suspicious website corresponding to the particular list element .

According to one or more aspects the user interface may also include a toolbar that includes various buttons links and or other elements to allow a user to export the listing of suspicious websites . The toolbar may include navigation buttons which allow a user to navigate forward backward or to a specific page. In addition the toolbar may include a zoom menu allowing a user to select and or change the scale at which the listing of suspicious websites is displayed. The toolbar may also include a search box with an associated Find link and a Next link . Additionally the toolbar may include a Select Format pull down menu and an Export button . The toolbar may also include a refresh button and a print button . The toolbar may allow a user to export the listing of suspicious websites . For example a user may choose a particular file format such as Comma Separated Value .CSV or Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet .XLS from Select Format pull down menu and then activate Export button thus effecting the creation of an external file in the chosen file format that may contain all or some of the data in the listing of suspicious websites . In one or more configurations it may be advantageous to export the listing of suspicious websites so as to for example view the listing of suspicious websites on a remote computer i.e. a computer not behind the proxy server or detect errors in the database and or servers. In addition it may be advantageous to export the listing of suspicious websites so as to for instance facilitate classification of a suspicious website as legitimate or fraudulent.

In addition in one or more configurations form may include an incident URL field . Incident URL field may for example allow a user to edit and or view an IP address and or URI corresponding to the selected suspicious website. Form may also include a comments field which may allow a user to edit and or view comments relating to the selected suspicious website. In addition form may include a date worked field an expiration date field and a site status date field . These date fields may for example allow a user to edit and or view the date at which the selected website was classified the date at which the classification of the selected website will expire and the date at which the status of the selected website was last updated respectively. Form may also include save button which may allow a user to save changes made to the various fields of form .

According to one or more aspects form may include cease and desist menu . Cease and desist menu may be comprised of hyperlink and status message . Cease and desist menu may allow a user to create and or send a cease and desist letter with respect to the selected suspicious website and also may allow a user to determine whether a cease and desist letter has already been sent with respect to the selected suspicious website. For example a user may activate hyperlink and then view a user interface displaying a form that allows the user to determine parties responsible for the suspicious website as well as create and or send a cease and desist letter as further discussed below with respect to . In addition a user may view status message and accordingly determine for example whether a cease and desist letter has already been sent with respect to the selected suspicious website. Form may also include status history menu which may allow a user to view status history relating to the selected suspicious website. Status history menu may be comprised of one or more list elements which may each include for example status username and date . In addition form may include site scan menu . Site scan menu may be comprised of hyperlink and status message . Site scan menu may allow a user to manually trigger a scan of the selected suspicious website this scan may provide a basis in whole or in part for classification of the website. For example a user may activate hyperlink thus triggering an automatic scan of the source code and or linked content of the selected suspicious website to which statistical analysis regular expressions and or other rule based analysis or algorithms may be applied. In addition a user may view status message and accordingly determine for example whether a site scan has already been performed.

According to one or more aspects form may include criteria matching menu . Criteria matching menu may be comprised of one or more list elements which may each include for example an edit link an ID number a matching type and a criterion . Criteria matching menu may allow a user to associate one or more IP addresses or URIs with the selected suspicious website. For example it may be the case that two or more URIs and or IP addresses different from each other correspond to the same suspicious website. In such a situation criteria matching menu may allow a user to apply for example exact wild or regular expressions to the various URIs and or IP addresses so as to assess similarities and determine whether the various URIs and or IP addresses correspond to the same suspicious website.

In one or more configurations to use criteria matching menu a user may for example activate edit link which may result in the display of a window that allows the user to choose a matching type e.g. exact wild or regular expression and allows the user to edit the criterion i.e. it allows the user to edit the IP address and or URI . In addition form may include abuse message URLs menu . Abuse message URLs menu may be comprised of one or more list elements which may each include for example an ID number a message count a first seen date a message link and a URL . Abuse message URLs menu may allow a user to access and or view one or more electronic mail messages which reported the selected suspicious website. For example as seen in the user interface may display a URL that has been parsed and obtained from a particular electronic message on a past date . Continuing this example the user interface may display an ID number corresponding to the URL as well as the message count which indicates the number of times the phishing lure corresponding to URL has been received via an electronic message. In addition the user may for example activate link in order to access and or view the electronic message and or phishing lure. Form may also include new criterion button and new abuse message URL button which may allow a user to add a new criterion or a new abuse message URL respectively. In addition form may include an IP Address menu as further discussed below with respect to .

According to one or more aspects form may contain a DNS query menu . DNS query menu may contain a query selection pull down menu a URI textbox a cancel button a run button and a delete button . In addition DNS query menu may have a corresponding results field such as for example DNS query results field . DNS query results field may further include one or more resulting IP addresses such as for example resulting IP address . DNS query menu may allow a user to execute and or view the results of a DNS query. For example a user may select DNS from query selection pull down menu enter the URI corresponding to the selected suspicious website in URI textbox activate run button and view results of the DNS query in DNS query results field . In one or more configurations the DNS query may be executed automatically by the system such that DNS is already selected from query selection pull down menu the URI corresponding to the selected suspicious website is already entered into URI textbox and the user may merely view the results of the query in DNS query results field . Stated differently in one or more configurations it might not require input from a user in order to execute a DNS query.

According to one or more aspects form may also contain a WHOIS query menu . WHOIS query menu may contain a query selection pull down menu an IP address textbox a cancel button a run button and a delete button . In addition WHOIS query menu may have a corresponding results field such as for example WHOIS query results field . WHOIS query results field may further include an IP address range a network name an ISP name ISP contact information an ISP URI and an ISP email address . WHOIS query menu may allow a user to execute and or view the results of a WHOIS query. For example a user may select WHOIS from query selection pull down menu enter the IP address corresponding to the selected suspicious website in URI textbox activate run button and view results of the WHOIS query in WHOIS query results field . In one or more configurations the WHOIS query may be executed automatically by the system such that WHOIS is already selected from query selection pull down menu the IP address corresponding to the selected suspicious website is already entered into IP address textbox and the user may merely view the results of the query in WHOIS query results field . Stated differently in one or more configurations it might not require input from a user in order to execute a WHOIS query. In addition ISP email address may facilitate the sending of a cease and desist letter as for example such a letter may be sent to the ISP email address identified by the WHOIS query. Also the system may display an email menu adjacent to ISP email address so as to facilitate communication with the ISP.

According to one or more aspects form may include a template email menu . Template email menu may include an ID number indicator a template selection pull down menu a URL textbox an IP address textbox a signature textbox a create message button and a done button . Template email menu may allow a user to create and or send a cease and desist letter based on a pre defined template. For example a user may select a particular template from template selection pull down menu enter the URI corresponding to the selected suspicious website in URL textbox enter the IP address corresponding to the selected suspicious website in IP address textbox enter a closing and or signature into signature textbox and activate create message button so as to create and or send a cease and desist letter. In one or more configurations a cease and desist letter may be created and or sent automatically by the system. For example it might not require input from a user in order to create and or send a cease and desist letter.

Additionally the methods and features recited herein may further be implemented through any number of computer readable media that are able to store computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable media that may be used include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic storage and the like.

While illustrative systems and methods described herein embodying various aspects are shown it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to these embodiments. Modifications may be made by those skilled in the art particularly in light of the foregoing teachings. For example each of the elements of the aforementioned embodiments may be utilized alone or in combination or sub combination with the elements of the other embodiments. It will also be appreciated and understood that modifications may be made without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of restrictive on the present invention.

