---

title: Method and system for identifying defects in a radiographic image of a scanned object
abstract: A method for processing a radiographic image of a scanned object is provided. The method comprises acquiring radiographic image data corresponding to a scanned object and identifying one or more regions of interest in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object. The method further comprises performing an image-contrast comparison of the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object and one or more reference radiographic images, to identify one or more defects in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08204291&OS=08204291&RS=08204291
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08204291
owner_city: Niskayuna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071015
---
The invention relates generally to radiography and more particularly to a method and system for automatically identifying defects from a radiographic image of a scanned object.

Radiography is a technique of producing an image of any opaque object by the penetration of radiation such as gamma rays X rays neutrons or charged particles. When a beam of radiation is transmitted through any object the radiation is differentially absorbed depending upon variations in object thickness density and chemical composition. The energy emergent from the object forms a radiographic image which may then be realized on an image detection medium such as a radiation sensitive detector. The detector comprises an array of elements that records the number of incident photons at each element position and maps the recording onto a two dimensional 2D image. The 2D image is then fed to a computer workstation and interpreted by trained personnel.

Radiography finds wide application in various medical and industrial applications as a non destructive technique for examining the internal structure of an object. For example in aerospace and automotive industries radiographic images of aluminum castings are typically inspected by an operator who identifies defects pertaining to porosities inclusions shrinkages cracks etc. in the castings. However and as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art owing to the structural complexity and large production volumes of these castings the manual inspection procedure is often prone to operator fatigue and hence suffers from low inspection reliability.

A number of radiographic inspection techniques such as feature based classification artificial neural networks and adaptive filtering have been developed to perform radiographic inspections of scanned objects. Feature based classification techniques evaluate a set of features to identify potential flaws in scanned object parts based on flaw morphology and gray level statistics. These techniques assign each pixel in the image into one of several classes based on minimizing a distance metric wherein the parameters characterizing the distance metric are evaluated using a supervised learning scheme. However the performance of these techniques is affected by variations caused by object structure or flaw morphology and these techniques generally require large training sets with labeled flaws to perform defect identification.

It would be desirable to develop a radiographic inspection technique that automatically identifies defects from radiographic images of scanned objects. In addition it would be desirable to develop an efficient radiographic inspection technique that produces accurate defect detectability rates efficiently utilizes system operation setup time and system training time and is robust to changes in object part geometry and misalignment of scanned object parts.

Embodiments of the present invention address this and other needs. In one embodiment a method for processing a radiographic image of a scanned object is provided. The method comprises acquiring radiographic image data corresponding to a scanned object to be tested and identifying one or more regions of interest in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object. The method further comprises performing an image contrast comparison of the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object and one or more reference radiographic images to identify one or more defects in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object.

In another embodiment a radiographic inspection system is provided. The system comprises an imaging system configured to acquire radiographic image data corresponding to a scanned object to be tested. The system further comprises a computer system configured to be in signal communication with the imaging system. The computer system comprises a memory a processor and a display device. The memory is configured to store the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object and one or more radiographic reference images corresponding to one or more reference objects. The processor is configured to process the radiographic image data and the radiographic reference images. In one embodiment the processor is further configured to identify one or more regions of interest in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object and perform an image contrast comparison of the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object and the reference radiographic images to identify one or more defects in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object. The display device is configured to display the defects in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object.

The computer system includes a memory configured to store the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object. The memory may also be configured to store one or more reference radiographic images. In one embodiment the reference radiographic images correspond to the images acquired by scanning one or more defect free reference objects. Further the memory may include but is not limited to any type and number of memory chip magnetic storage disks optical storage disks mass storage devices or any other storage device suitable for retaining information. The computer system further includes one or more processors configured to process the radiographic image data and the reference radiographic images. In one embodiment and as will be described in greater detail below the processor is configured to identify one or more regions of interest in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object and perform an image contrast comparison of the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object and the one or more reference radiographic images to identify one or more defects in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object.

Referring to again the computer system also includes a detector interface card an input device and a display device . The input device may include but is not limited to a keyboard a mouse a pointing device a touch sensitive screen device a tablet a read write drive for a magnetic disk a read write drive for an optical disk a read write drive for any other input medium an input port for a communication link electrical or optical a wireless receiver. The display device may be a CRT cathode ray tube screen or any other suitable display device for displaying text graphics and a graphical user interface for example. In one embodiment the display device is configured to display one or more defects in the radiographic image corresponding to the scanned object. The input device and the display device operate in combination to provide a graphical user interface which enables a user or operator to configure and operate the radiographic inspection system . The detector interface card provides low level control over the image detector buffers data read out from the image detector and optionally reorders image pixels to convert from read out order to display order. The real time image controller includes a set of image control buttons a set of image control dials a display and an embedded application programming interface that maps the functions of the control buttons and dials to the computer system .

Referring to in step radiographic image data corresponding to a scanned object to be tested is acquired using the radiographic inspection system . In step one or more regions of interest in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object are identified. In one embodiment the regions of interest include regions of high variance in the radiographic image data. The high variance regions may include but are not limited to noise defects edges and part structures comprising the radiographic image corresponding to the scanned object.

The resulting image generated in step corresponds to a filtered radiographic image comprising one or more of the regions of interest corresponding to at least one of edges noise defects and part structures. In a particular implementation the image processing filter is configured to remove extract the high variance regions in the radiographic image resulting in the generation of a radiographic image with reduced variance. This image is subtracted from the original radiographic image data to generate the filtered radiographic image comprising one or more of the regions of interest corresponding to at least one of edges noise defects and part structures.

In step a noise filtered radiographic image corresponding to the scanned object is generated based on the filtered radiographic image. In one embodiment the noise filtered radiographic image is generated by identifying and filtering one or more regions of interest in the filtered radiographic image that are representative of image noise in the radiographic image data. Furthermore in a particular embodiment the noise filtered radiographic image is generated by classifying the image pixels comprising the filtered radiographic image based on a variance level associated with one or more of the image pixels. For example the contrast level variance exhibited by image pixels in a region of interest representing a defect in the radiographic image data may be higher than the contrast level variance exhibited by image pixels in a region of interest represented by just noise in the radiographic image data.

In a particular embodiment the regions of interest that are representative of image noise in the radiographic image data are identified based on determining the variance level of the noise in the image acquired through the radiographic process. In radiography noise is Poisson distributed and may be represented by equation 1 below where is the mean pixel intensity and is the standard deviation. In other words the standard deviation i.e. the noise is proportional to the square root of the mean pixel intensity I as given in equation 2 . square root over 1 Noise square root over I 2 

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention the model developed for the image pixel noise shown in equation 1 is used to eliminate the regions of interest that are representative of image noise in the filtered radiographic image. For example if the image pixel value is twice or thrice the square root of the mean pixel intensity then the image pixel has a higher variance level and hence does not represent a region of interest that is representative of image noise in the filtered radiographic image.

Referring again to the process shown in in step one or more reference radiographic images are generated. In one embodiment the generated reference radiographic images may be stored in the memory of the computer system in the radiographic inspection system shown in . Further in one embodiment the reference radiographic images are generated from one or more reference objects that represent defect free pieces of cast aluminum components.

In step one or more regions of interest in the reference radiographic images are identified. In one embodiment the regions of interest in the reference radiographic images may include noise edges and part structures present in the reference objects. Further and as described in accordance with the process described in step above the regions of interest may be identified by filtering the reference radiographic images through an image processing filter. In step one or more noise filtered reference radiographic images corresponding to the reference objects are generated from the filtered reference radiographic images. In one embodiment and as described with respect to the process described in step above the noise filtered reference radiographic images are generated by classifying one or more image pixels comprising the filtered reference radiographic images based on a variance level associated with the image pixels.

In step the regions of interest in the noise filtered radiographic image are registered with corresponding regions of interest in the noise filtered reference radiographic images. In one embodiment the registration is performed by considering each noise filtered reference radiographic image as a base reference image and registering the regions of interest in each noise filtered reference radiographic image with other corresponding regions in the other noise filtered reference radiographic images. A base reference image that gives the best registration is then chosen and the regions of interest in the noise filtered radiographic image corresponding to the scanned object are registered with respect to this base reference image. In a particular embodiment the registration is performed using a correlation based approach wherein the regions of interest in the noise filtered reference radiographic image are shifted by an incremental amount in the x and y directions and the area of overlap between this region and the corresponding regions in the other noise filtered reference radiographic images is recorded at this new position. The position at which a maximum overlap is recorded provides the shift magnitude and direction by which the region needs to be translated. To address non linear misalignments a unique shift magnitude and direction is calculated for every region of interest and a constant shift is not applied to all the regions of interest. In this manner for regions in the radiographic image corresponding to the scanned object that do not have corresponding regions of interest in the reference radiographic images such as for example when the region includes a defect an average shift based on the shifts determined for regions common to the reference radiographic images and scanned object image are determined to translate the region of interest.

In step an image contrast comparison of the registered noise filtered radiographic image corresponding to the scanned object and one or more of the noise filtered reference radiographic images corresponding to the reference objects is performed. In one embodiment performing the image contrast comparison comprises identifying one or more defective regions of interest in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object based on a comparison of an image contrast intensity level of one or more regions comprising the one or more noise filtered reference radiographic images and an image contrast intensity level of one or more regions comprising the noise filtered radiographic image. For example if a particular region of interest in the noise filtered radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object and the corresponding region of interest in the noise filtered reference radiographic image has a substantially large image contrast difference for example 1.5 times the noise variance in the radiographic image then this region may be classified as a defective region of interest. Also if a particular region of interest exists only in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object then this region of interest may also be classified as a defective region.

Further in accordance with one embodiment a defect probability measure for the identified defective regions of interest is determined. For example if a particular region of interest is identified as a defective region of interest in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object by all the noise filtered reference radiographic images then the particular region of interest has a high probability of being classified as a defective region of interest in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object. In a particular implementation seven noise filtered reference radiographic image corresponding to seven reference radiographic images are generated. However it should be appreciated that the number of reference radiographic images generated may vary based on the particular implementation. Referring to now reference numeral represents the defective regions of interest identified by a first noise filtered reference radiographic image . Similarly reference numeral represents the defective regions of interest identified by an nnoise filtered reference radiographic image n. In step one or more defective regions of interest in the radiographic image data are identified.

In one embodiment one or more defect metrics may further be used to identify the defective regions of interest. The defect metrics may include for example curvature information used to differentiate the structural parts such as for example the ratio of the major axis length and the minor axis length 4 Area Perimeter proximity to strong part edges and information that distinguishes the area in a scanned object from a defect present in the scanned object. A low curvature factor indicates that the region of interest is more or less a straight line and hence an edge rather than a defect. Similarly a region which is very close to a strong part edge is analyzed based on its contrast and probability measures to ascertain that the region corresponds to a defect and is not a false call that has been identified due to misalignments. The defective regions of interest identified in accordance with the process disclosed in may further be processed to identify one or more defects in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object in a manner as will be described in greater detail with respect to below.

In a particular embodiment the localized image processing filters may include one or more median filters of a pre determined size that correspond to the area of the defective region of interest. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art non defective regions of interest in the radiographic image data may sometimes get identified as defective regions because of the presence of high contrast regions in the radiographic image data. For example the presence of an edge in the radiographic image data may contribute to a high contrast region near a defective region of interest causing the entire region of interest to be classified as a defective region. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention the localized image processing filters are configured to eliminate the influence of other high contrast regions that do not contribute to a defect by suppressing these regions from being identified as defective regions in the radiographic image data. Accordingly the localized image processing filters enable the identification of true defects in the radiographic image data thereby reducing false calls. Referring to now one or more defects in the radiographic image data are further identified based on the contrast level exhibited by the defective regions of interest in the radiographic image data within a localized region of interest as determined by one or more of the localized filters . Further and as described with respect to above an image contrast comparison of the identified defective regions of interest may again be performed to identify the defects in the radiographic image data corresponding to the scanned object.

The disclosed embodiments have several advantages including the ability to identify defects in radiographic image data corresponding to a scanned object with a high level of accuracy. Further the disclosed embodiments enable the detectability of even low contrast defects present close to significant image gradients such as part structures and edges present in the radiographic image. In addition the disclosed process of identifying defects in radiographic images is efficient uses fewer parameters thereby reducing system operation setup time requires little or no manual intervention thereby reducing system training time and is robust to changes in object part geometry and misalignment of scanned object parts.

The foregoing embodiments show the functionality and operation of a method for identifying defects in radiographic image data corresponding to a scanned object. In this regard each block represents a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in the figures or for example may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Also one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that additional blocks may be added.

The above described method comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The ordered listing can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with a computer based system that can retrieve the instructions and execute them. In the context of this application the computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate transmit or transport the instructions. The computer readable medium can be an electronic a magnetic an optical an electromagnetic or an infrared system apparatus or device. An illustrative but non exhaustive list of computer readable mediums can include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM magnetic a read only memory ROM magnetic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory magnetic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium may comprise paper or another suitable medium upon which the instructions are printed. For instance the instructions can be electronically captured via optical scanning of the paper or other medium and then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

While only certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

