---

title: System and methods for creating and authoring internet content using application media packages
abstract: An Application Media Package is a software component for accessing and displaying Internet content which includes a definition for rendering a graphical user interface and a URL pointing to Internet content to be downloaded and presented within said user interface. An Application Media Viewer may be used in association with an Application Media Package to manage the collection, organization, sharing, and rendering of a plurality of such Packages. A development server supports the community of Application Media Package developers, providing developer tools, including Package templates which provide an expedient method of re-purposing existing internet media into a new presentation package by choosing from existing examples. Access to tools and information may be controlled at the development server. The development server may also provide a development and test zone for Package verification, authentication and acceptance before posting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08020083&OS=08020083&RS=08020083
owner: Mainstream Scientific, LLC
number: 08020083
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
The present application is a continuation of and incorporates by reference U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 09 558 922 filed Apr. 26 2000 which claims priority from and incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Application ser. Nos. 60 131 083 filed Apr. 26 1999 60 131 114 filed Apr. 26 1999 60 131 115 filed Apr. 26 1999 60 176 687 filed Jan. 18 2000 and 60 176 699 filed Jan. 18 2000. The present application claims priority to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 09 558 925 filed Apr. 26 2000 and each of the aforementioned applications to which it claims priority.

The present application is also related to and incorporates by reference the following U.S. patent applications Non Provisional application Ser. No. 09 558 923 filed Apr. 26 2000 Non Provisional application Ser. No. 09 558 924 filed Apr. 26 2000 Non Provisional application Ser. No. 09 558 925 filed Apr. 26 2000 Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 286 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Component For Accessing And Displaying Internet Content Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 340 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Server Including Components For Accessing And Displaying Internet Content And For Providing Same To A Client Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 392 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Method For Accessing And Displaying Internet Content Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 427 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Component For Coordinating The Accessing And Rendering Of An Application Media Package Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 456 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Tracking and Tracing User Activity with Application Media Packages Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 553 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Displaying Time varying Internet based Data using Media Application Packages Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 630 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Methods of Obtaining Application Media Packages Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 663 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Indexing Sorting and Categorizing Dots Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 692 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled System and Methods of Messaging between Application Media Packages and Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 932 763 filed Oct. 31 2007 titled Component For Accessing And Displaying Internet Content In Association With a Web Browser Application .

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent fie or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention is related to accessing and viewing Internet content and more specifically to a method and apparatus for providing a unique frame independent of a Web Browser application and window for the retrieval and display of such content.

A user operating a client computer typically accesses the Internet by using a viewer application such as a browser to view Internet content provided at a destination address typically a web page. In this context Internet content and web applications are designed to fill the entire web page. It is known to divide the Internet content into different regions of a single web page. For example personalized web pages can be specified such that a user views a variety of content sources in a single page such as stock information weather information and sports information which is aggregated at the server that delivers the web page to the user who then views the aggregated content in a single web page. Observe that even when disparate content is aggregated in this manner it is reassembled into a full web page and is served through a full screen browser.

Users and application developers therefore have limited control over the presentation of internet content content is typically trapped within the frame of the browser. A developer s only alternative to engaging a user page by page in a browser is to develop distribute and support custom client software. In the Web browser scenario it is the content provider not the user that aggregates the information that is viewed by the user. Thus the user is not in a position to separately aggregate the content at a client computer instead the user is constrained to view the content that has been delivered in the manner provided by the server computer hosting the web page. There is a growing desire for individual users to fully control the aggregation and presentation of content and web applications that appears on a client computer.

A user who wishes to view multiple web pages or applications can open multiple instances of a browser. However the user will not be able to view each full screen page at the same time. Instead the user must adjust the windows corresponding to each browser instance and view only part of each page. The information appearing in each browser is not designed for viewing in this manner. Thus the user cannot create an optimized display of content from multiple sources.

Currently content providers and end users have limited tools to alter the browser in which content appears. That is the controls associated with a browser are not fully configurable. Thus the vendor of a browser is in a position to brand the browser and regulate the controls associated with the browser. There is a growing desire for content providers to not only fill a browser with their content but to also fully brand and control the frame in which the content appears. Further in some instances content providers desire to limit the controls associated with a browser or viewer so that a user is more inclined to view a single set of content for example by having limited access to previously viewed content. However the current browser applications provide very limited control to a user or content provide to alter the frame and controls provided by the browser window.

In view of the foregoing there is a need in the art to provide a technique for accessing multiple instances of distributable computer readable web content in which these instances are typically smaller than the full pages used in current web pages and web applications and which may be displayed in user or content provider controlled frames. Preferably such techniques allow such access to be done simultaneously. There is a further need for providing the user with flexibility in selecting collecting relating and viewing such web content and for giving the content provider flexibility in directing media to a specific user and controlling the framework in which media such as web content is presented. Finally there is a need to gather more accurate information regarding the type of content that a user enjoys so that the user can be automatically provided with this content.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods by which internet content may be authored and distributed. The invention provides for a structure defined herein as an Application Media Package. Application Media Packages are web browser readable code that is executed on a non browser based installed client application. The client application referred to herein as an Application Media Viewer or Home Dot executes independently from a web browser. The Application Media Viewer parses and executes the Application Media Package code to create the user experience. The terms Application Media Package and Dot are use synonymously herein.

In addition to the Home Dot the Dot Server provides a central collection and distribution point for Dot related data. The Dot server is communicated to directly by the Home Dot application by Dot users and by third party Dot developers. Internet content that is referenced within a Dot may or may not reside on the Dot server. In general it does not.

The Dot server supports the community of Dot developers providing developer tools including Dot template which provide an expedient method of re purposing existing internet media into a new presentation package by choosing from existing examples.

The Dot server supports posting and categorization methods for Dot developers to place their Dots in a manner that is effective for Dot users a manner that promotes Dot developers a manner that generates revenue by preferential placement of Dots etc. The Dot server supports developer accounts. These accounts may control access to tools and information as well as provide a development and test zone for Dot verification authentication and acceptance before posting.

According to the present invention the Dot is supported by a flat file format that enables a simple file download process that is completed by the Home Dot. The flat file format may be zipped and may also include a method that protects the contents of the Dot from source level viewing. Decoding and parsing is executed by the Home Dot.

In one embodiment the present invention provides for standard or base controls that are common to all Dots. These controls include size and placement for title bar exit button resize button and menu button. In addition standard images or content are provided as a default for each of these controls.

According to the present invention each Dot developer is provided with a unique developer ID by which all of his Dots is identified. Dots may also have a unique Dot ID a Dot kind or type attribute and category.

The above is a summary of a number of the unique aspects features and advantages of the present invention. However this summary is not exhaustive. Thus these and other aspects features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description and the appended drawings when considered in light of the claims provided herein.

The present invention discloses a technology that is capable of processing distributable computer readable media. Distributable computer readable media includes but is not limited to standard Internet content such as HTML dHTML images imbedded ActiveX and Java applications JavaScript CSS Perl scripts Streaming Media and or Flash. The present invention is advantageous relative to prior art systems and methods because it provides improved mechanisms for simultaneously interacting with several independent sources of distributable computer readable media collecting references to such media and sharing such references with other users. The disclosed technology is further advantageous because it provides improved systems and methods for on screen management of distributable computer readable media.

Central to the present invention is the concept of an Application Media Package. As used herein the term Application Media Package refers to a component which includes a fully configurable frame with one or more controls the frame through which content is optionally presented. The fully configurable frame utilized in accordance with the invention stands in contrast to present web browsers which are branded by the browser vendor and which have limited means by which to alter the controls associated with the browser.

The Application Media Package is a file that is comprised of web browser readable language. According to the preferred embodiment the present invention renders displays and updates Internet data without the use of a browser. In fact no browser need be installed on the client computer on which the Application Package is instantiated. The present invention produces a user experience by parsing and rendering the Application Media Package through the Application Media Viewer. The Application Media Viewer is an installed client application which renders the Application Media Package as well as provides additional functionality to the user experience hence it is more than simply a viewer application . The Application Media Viewer may render web browser readable content of the type typically supported by a browser application due to it being programmed utilizing the Microsoft IE4 object for receiving parsing and rendering web content. It will be understood by one skilled in the art that despite its name the Microsoft IE4 object is not a web browser application. One apparent difference between the Application Media Viewer and a typical web browser application is that the Application Media Viewer of the present invention is not designed to provide user web navigation and page control typically provided by a web browser.

User computer is any device that includes a Central Processing Unit CPU connected to a random access memory a network connection and one or more user input output i o devices including output means . Thus the term computer as used herein is intended in its broadest sense to include not only traditional workstations laptops and similar devices but any device containing a CPU of sufficient operability to utilize Internet data such as web enable cell phones personal digital assistants PDAs and so forth.

Output means is any device capable of communicating with a user and includes for example a video monitor a liquid crystal display voice user interfaces and or integrated graphic means such as mini displays present in web enabled cell phones PDAs etc.

Typically user computer includes a main non volatile storage unit preferably a hard disk drive for storing software and data. Further user computer includes one or more internal buses for interconnecting the aforementioned elements. In a typical embodiment memory includes an operating system for managing files and programs associated with user computer . In some embodiments operating system includes a registry that has one or more references to specified locations in system .

The exemplary memory of further includes a web browser for viewing Internet content and a separate collection of items referred to herein as a client parser application . In some embodiments client parser application uses the one or more references in registry to obtain a login construct from server . In various embodiments in accordance with the present invention client parser application runs in conjunction with one or more software modules such as an event log module which tracks user activity a message interface module which serves as a communication interface between the client parser application and web server and or external web servers an application media processing module one or more Application Media Packages to and an Application Media Viewer which among other functions regulates the characteristics of visual manifestations of Application Media Packages to when displayed on output device .

Server computer includes standard server components including a network connection device a CPU a main non volatile storage unit and a random access memory . Further server computer includes one or more internal buses for interconnecting the aforementioned elements. Memory stores a set of computer programs modules and data to implement the processing associated with the present invention.

The embodiment of memory illustrated in includes a web server for processing requests received from client computer . Web server has many components including a variety of modules and data structures to assist users that want to log into system . Namely login module handles an entry request from a client computer and accepts a login identifier that corresponds to a user from client computer .

Once a user has successfully logged into system request server module handles requests for specified Application Media Packages to from client . When such a request is received request server module routes the request to an address that corresponds to the specified Application Media Packages to and transmits the specified Application Media Packages to to client . One class of specified networked information handled by request server module is requests for Application Media Packages to . When such a request is received request server module searches Application Media Packages database for the specified Application Media Package. Application Media Package templates database includes a large number of Application Media Package templates. Each Application Media Package template defines the characteristics of a specific Application Media Package including fully configurable frame characteristics viewer and control characteristics and Application Media Package content references.

The web server illustrated in further includes additional modules to handle specialized features of the present invention. For example one embodiment of the present invention provides a mechanism that allows users to distribute Application Media Packages to each other. In such embodiments a special server module provides instructions for storing the Application Media Packages which are to be distributed using a sharelink database . Advantageously Application Media Packages that are distributed to other users are customizable. A user can for example resize and position a particular Application Media Packages prior to sharing it with another user. Indeed it is possible in such embodiments for a user to arrange a series of Application Media Packages in a unique arrangement and then distribute the collection of Application Media Packages in the designated arrangement. As an illustration a user arranges a first Application Media Package that represents a scrolling stock ticker at the bottom of an output means such as a computer screen a second Application Media Package that tracks the NASDAQ top ten most heavily traded stocks in the upper left corner of the output means and a third Application Media Package that tracks headline news on the upper right hand corner of the output means. Then the user distributes the three Application Media Packages in this customized arrangement to other users. Observe that in this example a user of a client computer is aggregating separate sets of information in different Application Media Packages. This stands in contrast to prior art approaches where a web server running on a server computer aggregates information in a single page.

System is highly scalable and thus supports a large number of users. This scalability stems from the fact that the server is delivering the definition associated with an Application Media Package. The content displayed in the Application Media Package may be located on a separate computer. Memory may provide a statistical analysis module for tracking key events associated with users. This information is stored in statistics database . The information collected by statistical analysis module is used for a wide variety of purposes including server load optimization and directed advertising as discussed below. As described below the statistical information gathered in accordance with the invention includes fully traced events defining the type of content and the duration over which all content is viewed by a user. This type of comprehensive information is not available using present techniques. Much of the distributable computer readable media that is available for processing is stored as content elements on server . Server is a standard web server that includes components such as a network connection device a CPU a main non volatile storage unit a random access memory RAM and one or more internal buses for interconnecting the aforementioned elements. RAM includes some of the content elements stored by server . Other content elements are stored in storage unit . In some embodiments a single web server is capable of directly accessing content elements located on one or more servers . In other embodiments each server has a resident web server module that works in conjunction with server to identify optionally dynamically generate and serve content elements upon demand.

With the general architecture of a system within which the present invention may operate provided with reference to we next turn to a number of definitions of key terms used herein. Terms not specifically defined herein shall be understood to have their broadest generally accepted meaning. Other terms may be defined elsewhere in the present disclosure. See also Appendix A and B herein. 

Application Media Package An Application Media Package also referred to herein as a Dot is computer software component such as XML code and data representing the definition of a client side mini application which displays information and or provides functionality to an end user. The Application Media Package combines the packaging application behavior and the presentation of Internet content with the content itself creating one integrated unit a Dot. Therefore Dots are the integration of application and media. A Dot may be viewed as a free floating mini site. It is frame in which Internet content is presented although lacking the most common functionality typically associated with a browser navigation .

In one embodiment Dots are programmed with browser readable language that is parsed to the Microsoft Internet Explorer IE rendering object referenced within a control so named the Dot Web Conduit and are capable of displaying any Internet content supported by IE 4 however not necessarily requiring use of Internet Explorer or any browser for such display . This browser readable language defines the appearance of a Dot its functionality and what content is presents. This browser readable language includes XML streaming media dHTML etc.

Structurally the Dot or media application package comprises initialization data control calls and a frame. Content such as that obtained from a network reference is rendered within the frame. The control calls may include the web conduit base controls such as close and resize base GUI elements such as a title bar Dot menu and Dot bottom bar as well as XML Dot calls that are made by the Dot Definition and executed by the Home Dot. Unlike a downloadable custom client application e.g. for delivering custom web applications to users desktops an Application Media Package is entirely content. That is the entirety of a Dot package referred to as its definition is in a browser readable language.

All that is required to instantiate an Application Media Package on the client computer is its definition assuming that the client computer has an Application Media Viewer discussed below installed. That is no browser is needed to render an Application Media Package. No browser need be running or be present on the client machine in order to render an Application Media Package.

Application Media Package Content Application Media Package content also referred to as Dot Content is Internet content served off of partner Dot Developer servers or another third party server. While in some cases a party developing and making a Dot available from a partner Dot Developer server may also host on the server content for that Dot the developer is free to cause the Dot to point to content from another party site for rendering as part of an instantiated Dot. It is an attribute of the present invention that any internet content can be accessed processed and or displayed as Dot Content or Application Media Package Content.

Application Media Viewer The Application Media Viewer also referred to herein as the Home Dot is a network enabled client application that loads and displays an Application Media Package on a client computer. Data contained within the Application Media Package is parsed by the Application Media Viewer and rendered within the extent of the Application Media Package s frame as defined therein. Data is web browser readable language including media and Internet references thereto as well as control calls. These control calls contained within an Application Media Package are also parsed and executed. The Application Media Viewer is required to instantiate an Application Media Package i.e. to create a Dot and provide any associated functionality on a client display device . The Application Media Viewer effectively takes the place of a browser application when rendering Internet content via an Application Media Package. However an Application Media Package contains Internet data and as such this data may also be referenced by a browser. In the preferred embodiment a browser is not employed to instantiate an Application Media Package nor to invoke any functionality they may provide. Also in the preferred embodiment the Application Media Viewer is a compiled application programmed using MFC Microsoft Foundation Class or the like. The Application Media Viewer need only be downloaded to the client computer one time and may be used to instantiate any number of Application Media Packages. More than one Application Media Package may be instantiated at a time i.e. the Application Media Viewer is capable of executing and displaying multiple instantiated Application Media Packages. The Application Media Viewer is also capable of checking for updated versions of itself and any Application Media Package on the server. The Application Media Viewer supports a number of facilities including support for standard internet protocols http https etc. Additionally the Application Media Viewer also supports collecting and organizing Application Media Packages user login user activity statistics collecting and reporting and messaging between Application Media Packages.

Block A group of Dots. Blocks are created and destroyed by the user through the dragging and positioning of individual Dots or other blocks.

Computer as used herein the term computer is meant to refer to any device that includes a Central Processing Unit CPU connected to a random access memory a network connection connected and rendering to one or more output devices which has sufficient operability to utilize Internet data such as web enable cell phones personal digital assistants PDAs etc. Thus the term is intended in its broadest sense to include not only traditional workstations laptops and similar devices but web enabled cell phones PDAs etc.

Content Server Also called a Partner Web Server used to deliver Internet content to a Dot on a client machine.

Controls A Dot comprises of at least one control each of which is arranged within the frame according to the Dot Definition. In the preferred embodiment this minimum control is the Web Conduit which is the Internet data rendering portion of the frame. Controls are calls that are contained within the Dot content that enable a Dot for example with application behavior amongst other attributes and explained further herein. The Dot Definition may contain base control close resize overrides such that the controls are not rendered or are rendered only upon mouse over events rather than persistent display. Additional media elements and network referenced media may also be contained within the Dot Definition.

Dot Definition This software entity contains enough information to instantiate an Application Media Package a Dot and pointers to location of Application Media Package content Dot content . A Dot is defined by its dimensions and a set of four attributes called Dot components as will be later described. A Dot Definition also defines access to Dot Web Conduit which is a control element of a Dot and is a fully functional rendering element that can access available Internet content.

Dot Link Hyperlink or URL on a server for downloading a Dot. Based on standard Internet links these point to or reference particular Dot Definitions and enable the Home Dot to quickly access using standard HTTP HTTPS requests for example the frame and initialization pointers URLs in the Dot Definition to instantiate the Dot and render it.

Dot Messaging Architecture DMA Elements within Dots and the Home Dot application create a messaging architecture the Dot Messaging Architecture that enables elements of the system including Dots controls within Dots and the Home Dot application to communicate with one another. The DMA enables these elements to exchange information request actions or functionality and respond to system element or content events.

Dot Pack A group of Dot templates specified by a particular Dot developer provider or aggregator that complement each other in some way.

Dot Template The XML definition of a particular Dot provider s Dot in its default state. Information includes the Dot size Dot class starting URL etc. The Dot template may be defined by a third party Dot provider. The Dot template is used as the starting point for a particular Dot which may be customized by the user in some way after the first instantiation.

Frame The frame also referred to as a Graphical User Interface GUI defines that area upon a display of the Dot instantiation in which data may be rendered. As previously described the frame may contain rendered Internet data. A Dot is comprised of a frame or GUI initialization input data including data and network references to data displayed in said frame. The appearance of the frame if any together with data that is displayed therein is the visible instantiation of the Dot. Any Internet data or media data may be contained within the frame such as an image Internet content etc. Additionally the frame shape and content may be wholly defined by the Dot developer.

Lead Dot The controlling Dot within a block. A lead Dot is the only Dot within a group that presents a control and close box. The lead Dot is the leftmost topmost Dot in that order .

Snapshot A point in time data set describing an individual user s overall visible Dot configuration. This includes location and configuration information on the user s overall configuration and all blocks and Dots.

Web Browser Readable Language standard Internet content that is capable of being parsed by a browser such content including HTML Java script XML CSS streaming media Flash HTTPS cookies etc.

Web Conduit a control that accesses and renders standard Internet content. Dots in conjunction with the Web Conduit control can render or process anything a browser application can render or process. That is the web conduit is an entity which processes or handles standard Internet content for rendering the GUI graphical user interface .

The present invention discloses a technology that is capable of distributing standard Internet content without the use of and restrictions imposed by a browser as detailed hereinabove in a manner that enables developer control of the user interface. The present invention includes a method and system in which Internet content is developed packaged and delivered from a server. The present invention further describes methods and systems in which the user obtains content interacts with it and is presented with updates to the content either in part or including the entire Application Media Package.

The present invention provides an alternative model of viewing content obtained from the Internet. Unlike the web page model requiring a web browser the present invention is founded on the premise that the basic unit of the Web and its media should not be limited or restricted to a webpage based display for presentation in a conventional browser nor should the user s experience of the Web be limited to one page at a time as defined by a conventional browser such as Microsoft s Internet Explorer .

Furthermore the present invention enables efficient placement of web applications directly onto users desktops. The present invention enables content providers to break their Internet based content up into smaller pieces package this content as Application Media Packages Dots give Dots an application behavior through a Dot Messaging Architecture and to distribute Dots from one user to another Viral Distribution Architecture .

The ability to break web based internet content into smaller packages e.g. Dots for transfer independent of a conventional browse enables content providers to distribute their media to fully brand and control a user s experience obtain direct access to consumers secure longer on screen presence give application media viral characteristics and eliminate the need to maintain a software application in order to achieve these characteristics.

With regard to viral characteristics for example the present invention allows content providers to enable users to collect Dots use Dots in groups Dot Packs and share Dots with others. Therefore Dots are passed from server to user and also from user to user via email links. Not only are may single Dot links be virally distributed but also collections of Dots and their links may also be virally distributed from user to user. Because Dots reference web data including media Dots enable the viral distribution of said media although the media may reside on a server.

Software application download is eliminated because Dot content is based on standard Internet content HTML dHTML flash streaming media Java etc. providing Dots with certain browser like functionality. By this virtue Dots may be distributed not as software application downloads but as Internet media downloads similar to web page downloads. As a Dot may define the frame within which content is to be rendered the visual extent of a Dot is not bound within the borders of a browser window. Unlike a web page in a third party browser a Dot s graphical user interface may be wholly defined and or branded by the developer.

Because Dots are instantiated and rendered upon a client computer as separate and independent graphical user interfaces and because they may be continuously refreshed with new internet content Dots may persist on a user s screen. Therefore Dots may possess a longer desktop presence i.e. remain in place or On while a user attends to other tasks on a device such as interacting with different applications making phone calls etc.

The present invention therefore also allows for persistence of displayed Internet content. For example a dedicated frame may be rendered on a user s display Internet content obtained from a server the obtained Internet content presented in the frame and possibly periodically updated and the frame and content positioned and sized such that it may remain unobtrusively open on the user s desktop even when other windows are open. This is fundamentally different than today s model where users visit websites and leave them due to size of the browser window full use of the content displayed etc. 

Dots provide Internet content developers and web application developers a unique way to package their content as custom client application experiences without having to develop distribute and support their own custom client application. Developers may repurpose the Internet content that they have developed and used in web pages to form Dots. In doing so according to the present invention developers may also add application behavior to Dots such that the user experience includes interactive graphical user interface elements likened more to a custom desktop client application rather than to a web page. Thus Dots enable Internet media to posses application behavior without the use of a browser or custom application.

From a Dot provider s perspective Dots provide direct access to users and a persistent branded presence on users desktops beyond and without the browser thus providing full control of the user s experience. That is a Dot that is instantiated on a user s client computer has the user s display real estate. Conversely a web page typically must be navigated to through the use of a web browser each time a user views the web page media and once the user navigates to a new page the display space browser window effectively belongs to the new web page content. As previously described the branded experience may be wholly defined by the Dot developer thus removing the rendering and branding limitations of a web page in a browser. Without the present invention an alternative available to the Internet content developer is to develop a custom application that must be downloaded each time it is changed or alternate content is desired to be displayed.

In summary Dots give users a unique way to experience web media by virtue of its 1 flexible frame definition and 2 a Dot s persistence when instantiated. Because of their ability to persist on a user s desktop apart from a browser Dots also provide a convenient method to access content and services without separate user selection of a URL . With a Dot for each of a user s specific Internet data needs Dots eliminate the need to download custom software from multiple sites for various content. Rather than implementing custom client applications in Java C etc. Dots are defined using XML and filled with standard Internet content such as HTML GIFs and the like.

The present invention also provides for the ability to collect and share favorite content and application like behavior i.e. sharing Dots . Links to Dots may be easily emailed between friends. Dots may be collected according to common interest usage requirements or the like and defined as groups called Dot Packs. These Dot Packs may also be shared as links via email or server.

A fundamental aspect of the present invention is the creation of a Dot including packaging of Internet content. The goal is to create an Application Media Packages Dots which combine the packaging application behavior and presentation of Internet content with the content itself or typically a pointer thereto as a single integrated unit a Dot . Therefore Dots are the integration of application and media.

This is fundamentally different than rendering internet content in a viewer application or alternatively developing distributing and supporting a custom client side application. Typically a Dot definition includes details regarding a window frame and the Dot content has access to the entirety of this frame. The details regarding the frame is itself Internet content so that the entire Dot package including the definition of the package is Internet content. Thus the Internet content is not trapped in a third party viewer e.g. Stock Trading site s web page in Microsoft s browser .

Dot content has access to application behaviors of the window frame size position look and feel and of the Dot application system show other Dots delete Dots etc. For example a Dot may change color according to ongoing data updates that it receives over the Internet. A Dot designed to display weather information may become increasingly red as temperature data received for a particular city or region increases.

Furthermore a Dot may communicate with other Dots. Communication between Dots is typically carried out by two or more Dots that are instantiated on the same client and enabled such that they may participate in inter Dot communication. In one embodiment communication is carried out by messages that are passed between Dots via the Home Dot that instantiated them. These messages may pass data alter controls or result in behavior change for example. Not only may Dots of the same kind communicate but in one example Dots formed between different developers may also communicate and affect one another. Such communication may be apparent or may be a background function supporting some aspect of a Dot s functionality.

With the above general description in mind we now turn to a description of a Dot and its definition. With reference to the primary components of a Dot are Internet content a visual object s within which the Internet Content may be rendered and operation element s which perform certain functions each discussed further below.

A Dot is an instantiation of a Dot Definition the components of which are illustrated in . At its broadest Dot Definition comprises an XML or similar definition which may include initialization data control calls and a frame definition discussed further below and a Network Reference e.g. a URL to Internet content . See for example Appendix A DoDots XML Specification. 

XML definition includes an appearance definition for defining the appearance of a GUI discussed further below and a control definition for defining controls associated with the GUI. Definitions and will typically include initialization data control calls and other elements. Optionally a Dot may include message data e.g. access to the Dot Messaging Architecture . Application Media Package or Dot Definition may also include tags to identify the Dot.

The XML definition of the appearance of the GUI typically includes a frame definition specifying size location etc. is an illustration of an instantiation of a generic GUI which comprises a frame typically divided into a number of control regions. For example Frame may include a title bar a bottom bar a menu control region and other definable control regions and . One critical control region referred to herein as the Web Conduit is a regions in which many Dots will present Internet content. Returning to definition is responsible for providing the dimensions and general shape of the GUI.

The control definition defines the layout arrangement of the controls and functional routines or pointers to functional routines what the controls do when accessed by a user . Control definition may also include XML Dot calls that are made by the Dot Definition and executed by the Home Dot not shown here .

Network reference will typically be a URL containing the address of a server having stored thereon data Internet content for retrieval and display within the GUI. Functionality typically provided by an associated Application Media Viewer controls the accessing of the server at the URL and the retrieval and processing of the Internet content for display. Importantly retrieval and display of the Internet content may take place without resort to a Web browser application. Indeed no Web browser application need be executing or even present on the client to support the Dot functionality although embodiments in which Dot functionality is operational in conjunction with browser functionality is within the scope of the present invention . Internet content obtained from network reference may be rendered within the frame defined by and according to the layout definition dictated by the frame appearance definition . Internet content obtained from reference may itself include XML calls providing certain functionality.

As previously mentioned Dot Definition is typically XML code. These definitions are quite simple to author and to edit if needed. The definition is content rather than compiled code which provides additional flexibility at the client side should it be desired to modify the definition e.g. allow a user to edit the network reference . As will be described further below when an Application Media Viewer is operating on the client computer the Dot is effectively both content and instructions. This is therefore a method of packaging internet content as an application as compared to a hard coded custom client application for operation on Internet content.

The image of a cloud against which the likelihood of rain is rendered is a static image. The data representing the instructions for rendering the cloud may be found in the appearance definition and thus resides within the Dot Definition . Alternatively the data representing the image of the cloud may be obtained from the location to which network reference points. In either case the data representing the cloud is utilized by the Application Media Viewer to render the cloud image.

The actual data representing the likelihood of rain may be standard Internet content and will change periodically as controlled by the source e.g. the Internet content itself obtained from a server at network reference of the data. Since this data changes as controlled by the source the data is considered dynamic. This dynamic data is obtained by the Application Media Viewer from the source and rendered atop the static image of the cloud. The frequency of updating and re rendering of the dynamic data may be under the control of the Dot Definition or the source of the data as a developer deems appropriate. The data to be rendered with the image may for example overlay or be rendered in a layer on top of the image beside the image in the same layer or otherwise in a layer under the image layer etc. However there is generally an intended relationship between the position of rendered Internet content and other items rendered in the graphical user interface. For this reason we say that the Internet content is rendered in association with the image within the graphical user interface.

It will be appreciated that Dot is merely on illustration of a Dot and many other types of content format layout controls functionality etc. are contemplated by the present invention. For example additional display of information and or control may also be presented in top bottom bars respectively as will be understood by one skilled in the art.

Thus a Dot is defined using for example an XML file which is the embodiment of a Dot Definition . The definition contains enough information that when instantiated the Dot may be rendered and filled with Internet content from a source. The Dot Definition contains data used to define and configure a frame and its elements specify and lay out the controls and specify parameters that initialize all the Dot s components with content and data.

A frame can be defined to have a configuration e.g. base shape size e.g. dimensions and initial location which may be changed by a user upon instantiation . In additional a simple Dot may be defined to have four default functional frame definition controls for example to encourage user interface consistency between different Dots. These four default functional controls include a title bar Gif rendered with title bar properties a Dot menu with flexible menu entries an exit control and a bottom bar Gif rendered with bottom bar properties with corner elements for sizing and consistent user interface . A default layout of these functional components may be set such as positions for the title bar at the top of a Dot Dot Menu on its left exit control on its right and the bottom bar at the bottom of a Dot with corner elements on either side . It will be appreciated that this is one form of layout of which many others are within contemplated within the scope of the present invention.

The title bar may contain a reference title for the Dot and may provide for a place for a user to grab and drag the Dot in a windowed environment. It may be implemented as a GIF rendering control that can be targeted to a local remote title bar image an embodiment supports four title bar images normal mouse down mouse over or hover inactive . In this embodiment the title bar has a fixed height and width that is a function of the frame s width. The Dot Definition allows the title bar image to be justified left right or center and for specified number of repeat pixels the title bar image may be tiled the full width of the Dot. Overlay text can also be specified to layer on top of the title bar image.

The default size and the default position of the Dot are defined as part of the appearance definition in the Dot Definition . The Dot size can be specified in pixels or Dot Units 1 Dot Unit is 40 pixels etc. Dot Units can define a grid that keeps Dots sized on the same units so that they more easily and neatly align as well as cleanly snap to each other when Dots are used together. Dots can be sizeable or fixed size in either dimension or both. The default screen position for a Dot can also be specified in pixels or in relative position top left center as provided for in the appearance definition in the Dot Definition .

One embodiment of the present invention reserves the four corners of a Dot for functional branding elements. The upper left corner is currently reserved for the menu control . The upper right corner is currently reserved for the Dot exit control. The lower corners are for sizing the Dot if the Dot is resizable. Menu entries for branded menu control upper left can be specified in the Dot Definition for example at . The menu items can be named assigned images and tooltips and assigned a specific and targeted action for example a DotMessage sent to a specified element address . See DMA messages hereinbelow . The Dot exit button upper right closes the Dot. An on close action such as a message and address pair can be assigned to the Dot close event.

The bottom bar may be implemented much like the title bar including supporting text overlay and additional functionality. See Appendix A DoDots XML Specification for a list of controls with XML call and their definitions 

Dots may be defined so as not to require a rectangular title bar or bottom bar at top and bottom . Indeed either or both of title bar and bottom bar may be omitted in a Dot Definition. Other controls may also be omitted provided certain functionality e.g. exit or close is otherwise provided. Furthermore every functional element in a Dot may be defined as a control element that is relatively positioned and layered in z order much like layers in HTML. Transparency may also be a given property. Different layers and controls may be given Dot properties such as a title bar move property or Dot menu property . Very flexible Dot interfaces may therefore be provided. See the specification for the and DTDs in Appendix A XML Specification. 

Between the title bar and the bottom bar is a control space where one or more controls images data etc. can be flexibly positioned. For example control space may include a web rendering control referred to herein as a Web Conduit described further below . The Dot framework supports any Active X based control which may be positioned and initialized in a Dot e.g. an on line stock trading company may implement a custom stock chart rendering control and define a Dot to permit a user to interface with this control .

A Dot may be defined to include a static image over which dynamic data may be displayed such as the example of in which a static image of a cloud has rendered thereover dynamic changing data relating to likelihood of rain. Alternatively the Web Conduit may render in control space purely static data obtained from the Dot Definition a URL or the client device as well as dynamic data resulting from client run processes pushed or pulled Internet content etc.

The Web Conduit control is just one of many controls that may be included and positioned in a Dot s control space . For example Active X based control can also be referenced and inserted. This capability allows a Dot developer to implement a custom control. For example a stock ticker display may be implemented as a custom secure chart control that renders stock tracking charts with small streams of secure xml data. Such a custom control can be laid out with a Web Conduit control next to it if the Dot developer chooses to do so. Also just like a browser a Dot developer may embed an active x control in an HTML page rendered in the Web Conduit control as is the practice for use with full screen browsers.

The Web Conduit mentioned above control can render Internet content in a fashion similar to Microsoft s Internet Explorer IE . This control functionality may be provided for example by utilizing Microsoft s Internet Explorer s IE4 WebBrowser object. Note that the IE4 object does not constitute a browser. The Web Conduit merely uses rendering tools of the object it does not invoke or require the Internet Explorer application or any other web browser application. Rather functionality is provided to support rendering of Internet content so as to integrate this control with the Dot framework and to receive and transmit messages in and out of the HTML rendered in the control.

A Dot can be identified in the Dot Definition by three ID strings GlobalID Domain and Kind reference. These are defined as follows 

In an embodiment of the present invention categories are used as an organizational tool. A Dot Definition may be provided with an element defining the category ies with which that Dot is associated. A mechanism is provided to allow identification of categories of Dots useful for selecting sorting organizing etc. The categories that a Dot belongs may be edited by editing the string elements in the Categories element of the Dot Definition . See the specifications for the and DTDs in Appendix B. 

A Dot Definition may also include an Events element in which actions can be assigned to certain Dot Events such as the Dot s ONCLOSE event. DotEvents can be assigned a specific and targeted action much like a menu control item currently this action is implemented as a DotMessage sent to a specified recipient see DMA messages below . When the specified DotEvent occurs for example ONCLOSE when the Dot closes the specified message is sent to the specified recipient.

Referring again to web server may serve the Dot Definitions as an XML file to client computer . The Dot Definition may be served elsewhere such as a third party or partner server not shown along with the Dot content that fills in the Dot. In one embodiment this XML specification may be kept proprietary and Dot developers define and package Dots indirectly without having to author XML Dot Definitions. In another embodiment the xml specification is open and content providers and others have complete control of the authoring of Dots.

Dot Definitions are indexed and stored in server in database and are accessible to Dot rendering and Dot management applications the Application Media Viewer via DotLinks . These DotLinks based on standard Internet links point to particular Dot Definitions and enable the Application Media Viewer using standard HTTP HTTPS requests to quickly access the frame and initialization pointers or URLs in the Dot Definition to instantiate the Dot and render it filling with DotContent Internet content served by a partner Dot Developer servers .

Dot developers e.g. content and or service providers serve the Dot content obtained from source or reference the standard internet content that fills in the Dot . According to one embodiment Dots may be served my numerous different non proprietary servers . Content may also be provided by a non proprietary server as specified by the Dot developer. Of course it is possible that in other embodiments specific Dots may only be obtained from certain sources.

Because the Dot Definition contains enough information to instantiate the Dot as well as the reference that address the location at which the Dot content is located a Dot is easily and quickly distributed as well as collected and shared by users. This is discussed further herein with regard to Viral Distribution Architecture. It is therefore easier and faster to get information delivered in a Dot than in a web page.

This Dot based architecture is very different than the current model of Internet content. Today users visit web sites following a destination based model of content access. The process of accessing media therefore is sequential or linear resulting in user viewing of one full screen web page at a time. Furthermore there is no simple to use or inherent mechanism in place today to share sites short of sending URL s.

The Dot Definition code is accessible flexible and dynamic enabling it to be modified at any time even after it is rendered. For example Internet content HTML can access and modify its associated Dot Definition by sending messages to other portions of the definition such as the definitions of appearance or control . Other application system level functionality is also available by sending messages to the Application Media Viewer discussed further below.

By using an architecture referred to as Dot Messaging Architecture for communication between Dots and between a Dot and the Home Dot standard Internet content can access and enable Dots to exhibit application behavior. That is content can provide functionality typically associated with applications such as dynamic refresh contextual presentation interactive response between user actions and changes in the graphical user interface or frame etc. See Dot Messaging Architecture below. 

The following examples are used to demonstrate key features of the present invention. Some of these features include a new way to view standard internet content a fully branded experience for the user and a web experience that delivers true application behavior. Sample companies are used in these examples to demonstrate branding together with the use of internet content to produce a novel user experience that transcends the web page. Trademarks are those of the respective companies.

E Trade s primary business is to enable users to execute securities trading online. Therefore stock information and notification are essential elements to their business as are the transactions themselves. Persistent display is an important aspect of Dots as is the ability to provide ongoing data updates. Below is a list of aspects that illustrate novel advantages that Dots provide for a possible E Trade Dots system.

In this example Miriam Webster has word definition content that is useful for users to access. Users may be better served by the Dot format of presenting as opposed to traditional web pages. Below is a list of features that illustrate this point.

A single company such as eBay can use multiple Dots to engage users from many points at the same time to facilitate a more complex process such as online auctions or shopping. Many companies have an enormous amount of assets content services and applications that can only be exposed to users one page at a time. Featuring and exposing new or important functionality is often difficult to do if they are buried several pages deep.

By using an embedded MP3 playing control an MP3 playing Dot can access play and manipulate MP3 files and playlists from a local hard drive or the web just like a custom MP3 client application. The significant difference is that the GUI controls the Dot Definition are entirely Internet content HTML javascript etc. and can change simply by modifying HTML files online.

Dots can be viewed as a smaller format package for internet application media. This package is more portable than executable applications as well as full screen formatted media for browsers. Portability across platforms requires consideration of diverse screen sizes and resolutions as well as operating systems and user interface controls. This diversity requires companies or users who require cross platform media distribution to scale down their existing content for portability to mobile devices. No such scaling down is required when deploying Dots and the Dot architecture.

As previously mentioned with regard to a client computer will ideally have stored thereon a software component referred to as an Application Media Viewer or Home Dot . As Application Media Viewer performs a number of functions in the process of acquiring instantiating modifying etc. Dots in addition to simply viewing Dot content we also refer to an Application Media Viewer as Home Dot herein. The Home Dot is effectively a client application that contains the procedures or calls to procedures for rendering and managing Dots on the client computer. It therefore has attributes of an application. The Home Dot is designed to operate in conjunction with a Dot Definition and vice versa.

Data contained within an Application Media Package Dot is parsed by the Home Dot. Control calls contained within the Dot are also parsed and executed. The Home Dot may then instantiate a Dot without relying on functionality provided by a browser. In fact in a preferred embodiment a browser is not employed to instantiate or operate an Application Media Package.

The Home Dot is a compiled application and can be programmed using for example MFC Microsoft Foundation Class or the like. The Home Dot need only be downloaded to the client computer one time and may be used to instantiate any number of Dots. The Home Dot is capable of executing and displaying multiple Dots simultaneously.

The Home Dot may be provided with the ability to automatically or manually check for updated versions of itself on a server. If a newer version is detected the user may be provided with the opportunity to download and install the updated version of the Home Dot.

The Home Dot supports a number of functionalities including support for standard internet protocols http https etc. Additionally the Home Dot supports collecting and organizing Dots user login to a Dot server user activity statistics collecting and reporting and messaging between Dots as discussed further below.

Referring now to a communication flow diagram is shown for an exemplary system enabling the distribution and use of Dots between a client computer a server Dot server making available one or more Dots including a Home Dot and content server each with a network address or IP address. It will be assumed for this particular example that a Home Dot has previously been downloaded and installed on client computer . It will also be assumed for this example that Dots and have been previously requested the mechanism for this request is described further below .

Accordingly Home Dot client application utilizes Dot Definitions to instantiate Dots . There may be ongoing communication between Home Dot and Dots respectively. This communication may include data for the presentation of Internet content messages and or state information. Furthermore the Home Dot client application executing on a client computer communicates with Dot server through a channel such as a broadband Internet connection as well as Content server through channel . Internet content is received by Home Dot and rendered into the instantiated Dots as appropriate. The Internet content may be one or more of many formats such as XML HTML GIF Streaming Media Flash HTTP HHTP S etc.

The Dot server is communicatively connected to a physical memory device which holds a database containing software objects for downloading to or access by a client device such as client computer . This physical memory device may be a RAID hard drive system a standard hard drive removable media or any other type of volatile or non volatile memory known in the art. Database may contain one or more Dot Definitions the Home Dot client application available for download to the client device as well as user account data state data including use statistics and Dot index shares each described in further detail herein .

The content server is communicatively connected to a physical memory device which holds the Internet content as well as other forms of data . Content data is communicated to the instantiated Dots where it is rendered on the client computer . In general content passes first through the Home Dot application or a similar client computer program that is capable of receiving and parsing Internet content. Therefore the connections between content server and Dots are shown as dashed lines indicating that for this figure the connection is indirect.

Unlike a downloadable custom client application the Dot Definition is comprised entirely of Internet content in a web browser readable language. To instantiate a Dot on a client device or computer only its definition is required assuming that the computer is Dot enabled i.e. that the Home Dot client application has been installed . The Dot Definition contains just enough information to define layout and initialize a Dot s components frame controls etc. this information configures the graphical user interface which may then present Internet content therein. Consequently a Dot Definition typically has a small file size 2 KB and is therefore a quickly accessible and loaded XML file.

One aspect of software distribution according to the present invention may proceed as illustrated in . A user first requests a Dot or more specifically its Dot Definition by clicking on a Dot link which may be a hyperlink on the web page of a Dot server a web page of a partner or content server or selectable menu item on the client computer . A Dot link is an Internet link to a Dot Definition . A Dot link operates in a manner similar to an HTML link. One added feature associated with a Dot link is that the server that serves the Dot Definition typically has a sensing mechanism that can determine whether or not a user has the Home Dot application installed on his computer or device .

If the user does not have the Home Dot application then it is downloaded and installed with a first set of Dots e.g. that may be user selected or part of an initialization set. This download process is discussed in further detail below. From that point forward the client computer is Dot enabled and does not require a subsequent download and install of the Home Dot. In short only a single application like software product need be downloaded and installed on a client device to enable a variety of different Dots as opposed to requiring a user to download a different custom client application for different types of Internet content.

Once a client machine is Dot enabled Home Dot application installed Dot may be rendered by simply clicking on Dot link . This rendering is typically faster than it takes to load and render a small web page. Furthermore once the Home Dot application is installed on the client no additional executable software need be downloaded or install to view and interact with a Dot. The Home Dot application accomplishes this by retrieving the Dot Definition specified by the Dot Link instantiating the Dot obtaining the Internet content specified by the Dot Definition and presenting the Internet content standard Internet content from DoDots partner servers within the Dot.

Once a user has received a Dot Definition the Home Dot application remembers the Dot s Dot Definition as part of a user profile so that it can instantiate the Dot and begin filling it with Internet content immediately. Because a Dot Definition becomes part of a user profile it can be modified by use e.g. the image of its default title bar may be changed its Web conduit control may be navigated to a different URL using DMA messages etc. and the Dot will initialize from its last state stored in user profile the next time the Dot is to be instantiated or turned on at .

A Dot Link represents a Dot. Therefore this Dot Link and hence the Dot can be easily and instantly distributed the Dot Link can be posted on web sites to promote the Dot or shared with friends via email. This is viral distribution of a Dot via distribution of the Dot Link the Dot server hosts and serves the Dot Definitions to which the Dot Links point. Dots may also be aggregated into packs by content providers or other aggregator grouped for example by like subject or perceived common user interest and the packs of links acquired by a user at as if they were single Dots. A user may also provide others with access to Dots when the actual Dot Definition is located on a remote third party Dot server. This may be accomplished by way of a Sharelink which may be provided by a user at . Others may then access the Dot including setting changes that may have been made by the user by accessing the Sharelink provided at .

From the client perspective one example of a process of acquiring and instantiating a Dot is illustrated in . According to this process a Home Dot is employed to acquire a new Dot however it is within the scope of the present invention to acquire new Dots through other mechanisms such as through a web browser application with utilization of the Home Dot ultimately required in order to instantiate and populate the Dot . After logging in at step the user clicks on the Dot Link signaling a request to acquire the Dot. The Home Dot application then sends a request to download the Dot to the Dot server at step . Alternatively the user may click on a Dot link before logging in for example if the link has been e mailed to the user and then after clicking on the link log in. In another aspect the user could view but not collect a transient Dot without ever logging in.

After the user is logged in and has clicked on the Dot the Dot server retrieves the Dot template from its Dot database and provides it to the client in step . The client receives the Dot template from the Dot server in step .

For display of the new Dot the Home Dot creates a frame in the display of the user interface in step . In step the client requests the necessary Internet content stored at the URL s identified in the Dot Definition from the corresponding content server . The content server transmits the content in step and in step the Home Dot presents the content in the viewer. As the type of content may vary greatly the content may appear within the frame such as text or images or may be independent of the frame such as audio but the frame including controls for controlling aspects of the presentation of the content. In one embodiment Internet content is presented such that it is enclosed by the frame allowing the user to preview the Dot. Alternatively the Home Dot may simply collect the Dot adding it to the user s processed user profile .

The user may then view the Dot on the user interface display and may interact with the Dot much in the same way as a user may interact with typical Internet content or web applications. This may change the Dot from its present raw state to a used state reflecting alteration or use of the Dot by the user. Thus the user has stored on client a Dot Definition rather than a Dot template. For example the user may direct the Dot to display different content within the Dot if the Dot content enables the user to do so. Or the user may provide information to the content server which allows the Dot to be personalized. The user may additionally be given the option of changing the size or location of the frame etc.

If the user collects the Dot the Dot will be added to a user s list of collected Dots. For example the Home Dot may add the Dot s definition to a processed user profile discussed further below . Thus the Dot s state will be preserved. Alternatively the Home Dot may collect the Dot automatically without waiting for a user command by adding the Dot Definition directly to the processed user profile.

If the Dot s state has been altered by the user or by the content if for example the user has directed the Dot to Internet content other than the initially displayed content provided personalizing information or changed the properties of the frame or if the content itself has caused an alteration in the Dot this alteration will be reflected in the Dot Definition stored in the user profile. Information which personalizes the resulting content instead of being stored in a cookie on the client device can be stored as part of the Dot Definition. This advantageously permits personalization of content such as Internet content that is associated with the Dot content and the user without storing a cookie on the client . One advantage this provides is that the state of a Dot can be returned for a user no matter which computer the user accesses the dot from.

A user may also access a Dot which has been previously collected and possibly altered by use as explained above. As previously described the user profile includes Dot Definitions for Dots which have been viewed and collected by the user. A screen shot showing Dots which have been previously collected by a user is shown in . Also shown are Dot Links available from a Dot server for download to the client.

One embodiment of the steps taken to provide the user with Dots which have been previously collected are shown in . According to this process acquired Dot Definitions are maintained on a central server and a user profile identifies which Dot Definitions are associated with particular users. This is useful when a user may be using more than one computer and wishes to have access to her collection of Dots on any machine she is using. However it is equally within the scope of the present invention that Dot Definitions may remain resident on a user s computer and not be stored for that user on a central server or the like.

As discussed above on login at step the user s profile is retrieved by the Home Dot stored on the client step and . The user s profile stored in the user profile database includes the Dot Definition for each of the Dots previously collected and possibly altered by each user. The Dot Definition as discussed above includes the Dot frame definition and the definition of the controls for filling the viewer within the frame with content. After log in a local copy of the processed user profile is stored on the client and this copy is further processed as the user collects new Dots or uses new or collected Dots such that the Dots are altered.

When the user clicks on the name or icon of a collected Dot at step the Home Dot creates a frame in the display of the user interface in step . At step the Home Dot causes the client to request the Internet content from the URL identified in the Dot Definition from the corresponding content server . This content is provided in step . It will be appreciated that the URL need not be the same as the initialization URL in the Dot template stored in the Dot template database on Dot server and in fact the content server need not be the same content server corresponding to the initialization URL. In step the Home Dot places the content in the Dot frame and the Dot is then fully instantiated with content.

Dot web servers host and serve the XML Dot Definitions and provide the Dot Links Dot Packs and sharelinks that point to the Dots so that a user can easily and instantly add the Dot to their Home Dot application adds Dot to their user profile simply by clicking on the Dot Link pack link or sharelink . The Home Dot application registers with the local browser computer so that Dot Links are handled by the Home Dot application and not by the browser .

New Dot Definitions get published to a Dot index . A Dot Definition can be modified by a user once downloaded. Since these new Dot Definitions are resident on the server for downloading they are also referred to herein as Dot templates. The Dot index stores Dots definitions or templates in database on Dot server by category such as sports finance games etc. with descriptions and images for each Dot. In the preferred embodiment Dot Definitions are published to categories specified by the Dot developer. Categories can also be automatically created to support indexing Dots that are most popular most commonly accessed most commonly shared or other sorting criteria .

Dots as well as their index are formatted as Internet content. Therefore users can browse or search the Dot index for new Dots using either a browser or using their Home Dot application application via an AddNewDot Dot or like functionality .

Each of these Dot templates Dots definitions are pointed to by a Dot link the Dot link for each Dot is generated automatically by the server when the Dot is published or previewed to reference that Dot. Clicking this Dot link adds the Dots definition to the user s Home Dot application via the user profile and turns the Dot on instantiates it and fills it in with internet Dot content .

Once a user receives a new Dot Dots definition by clicking on a Dot link the Dot template is downloaded and becomes a Dot Definition forming part of their user profile the XML data that defines which Dots the user has which Dots they left open what the state of the Home Dot application last was etc. .

The Dot server may optionally host Dot Definitions as part of user profiles . Every Home Dot application user has a user profile expressed in XML that stores the Dot Definitions that the user has collected as well as the last state of the Home Dot application . See also the specification of the DTD in Appendix B. 

In an additional optional embodiment when a user successfully logs into the Home Dot application state restoration may be provided by Dot server . In this embodiment authentication may be handled by the Dot application server as opposed to the user device and Home Dot . The Home Dot application requests the user profile s file by communicating with Dot server at . The Home Dot application then receives the file from Dot server at and restores its state from the presenting last user state i.e. which Dots were ON where the Home Dot application was positioned on the screen etc. 

The Home Dot application user interface UI enables a user to turn a Dot ON in this case the Home Dot application has the Dot Definition part of the user profile that was retrieved on login that contains enough initialization data to instantiate the Dot and fill it with content just as the user left it.

As previously mentioned Dot Definitions that are part of a user s profile may differ with use. In other words the Dot Template from which they were originally created may have a different state than a Dot Definition that has been modified through use. The user profile could also be implemented to point to Dot Definitions that are always hosted remotely and or not entirely part of the user profile .

Centralization of Dots within the Home Dot enables users to collect Dots. This feature is significantly different than today s model of the Internet in which users visit a page one at a time and then leave. Users collect Dots keep them running and share them with others. By packaging Internet content as a Dot and referencing it by a Dot link Internet content is given viral characteristics i.e. Dots can be instantly distributed . See also the Session Config Example found in Appendix B. 

Dot servers also host Dot Definitions as part of Shares. Because a Dot link represents a Dot this Dot link and hence the Dot can be easily shared distributed via email from one user to other users.

If a user receives a Home Dot application share and has the Home Dot application installed their machine is Dot enabled then clicking on the Share Link Dot link in the share will add the Dot s in the share to the user s Home Dot application . If a recipient of a Share Link doesn t have the Home Dot application installed then the Home Dot application is downloaded and installed with the user s cooperation with the first Dot s .

When a user shares Dots their Home Dot application generates a share file XML file that contains the Dot Definitions of the Dot s included in that share. The Share XML is then sent to Dot server the Dot server automatically generates the Share Link that references the Share XML. This Share Link rather than the Share XML is sent or distributed via email or posted on a web site to other users. See also the specification of the DTD found in Appendix B. 

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart illustrating the software product client download process. According to one embodiment to begin a user makes a request for a Dot at step . At step it is determined that the user does not have the Home Dot application installed. Step comprises of the following 

User is informed of need to download software to view Dot. The message could be from the site owner content provider or from a Dot server.

 Do you trust provider Dot server host dialog is presented to user at . A dialog then tells the user the size of download and approximate time for download.

In step the user clicks the Yes button. Alternatively if the user clicks the No button step executes with an exit message such as You decided not to get the Dot . Proceeding now to step the user gets a Trust Certificate a security process well understood in the art . The user accepts the Trust Certificate in step . Alternatively if the user declines step executes with an exit message such as You decided not to get the Dot . In step the user accepts and receives the license agreement and is presented with a dialog that asks the user to confirm the directory for download location. Alternatively if the user declines step executes with an exit message such as You decided not to get the Dot . In step the user accepts the license and confirms the file location and proceeds now to step . The download process begins followed by the installer download and background install operation. The requested Dot opens and the KeepMe Dot opens. Note that the KeepMe Dot may be provided by a third party such as a content provider. If no third party provided KeepMe Dot exists a default KeepMe will open.

In step if the user decides to keep the Dot the KeepMe Dot Operation initiates see below . If the user decides to close the requested Dot before selecting KeepMe and then decides to select KeepMe the requested Dot will close the Keep Dot operation will initiate and the requested Dot will be added to the Dot list. Alternatively if the user closes the requested Dot and the KeepMe Dot without selecting KeepMe the Home Dot application will remain installed but the Home Dot application UI will not be available to the user. Lastly if the user decides to close the KeepMe Dot before closing the requested Dot the user will not be able to initiate the Keep Dot operation.

The other branches of the flow chart will now be described. Beginning once again with step the user requests Dot. According to the alternate branch leaving step the Home Dot application is found on user s machine. In step it is indicated that the user is not registered. Alternatively if the user is registered the Add Dot operation is executed step and the process terminates . Proceeding therefore to step the requested Dot opens. The KeepMe Dot opens KeepMe Dot may be a default Dot or a KeepMe Dot provided by the Dot content provider . If the user decides to keep the Dot the Keep Dot operation then initiates see below . Alternatively if the user decides to close the requested Dot before selecting KeepMe and then decides to select KeepMe the requested Dot will close the Keep Dot operation will initiate and the requested Dot will be added to the Dot list. In another scenario if the user closes the requested Dot and the KeepMe Dot without selecting KeepMe the Home Dot will remain installed but the Home Dot UI will not be available to the user. If the user decides to close the KeepMe Dot before closing the requested Dot the user will not be able to initiate the KeepMe operation.

The following is a summary of the KeepMe registration operation assuming an unregistered user has a partner s Dot open 

In one embodiment of the present invention it is possible to track the referring partner for example for awarding incentives for referring a user. The form of the incentive is a matter of business choice. However in such an embodiment the registration operation will comprise the additional step of 

It will be appreciated that the present invention addresses scaling issues by breaking content up into smaller more focused software components. These smaller software components Dot Definitions may thus be served to mobile devices to compensate for bandwidth and content feature support issues to overcome a lack of browser functionality and processing overhead etc. Furthermore the architecture supporting Application Media Packages or Dots offer a consistent experience with application media or Dot content across device types e.g. similar experiences as between desktop laptop web enabled phone PDA etc. As Dots are distributed as easily as web pages are viewed visited Dots can be instantly distributed and users can stay connected with content providers of their choice without having to download custom client software from each provider and without regard to the device type being operated.

For further details on the structure of the XML structure used for Dots according to one embodiment of the present invention see Appendix A hereof. For further details on the functions and design of Dot server see Appendix B hereof.

One unique aspect of the present invention is the interaction between the application media package and the application media viewer . This aspect is now discussed.

As mentioned the application media viewer or Home Dot is a network enabled client application. With respect to the user experience the Home Dot provides the parsing and rendering function of the application media packages or Dots. It also provides for the application behavior of Dots by executing calls or methods that are parsed from the Dot by the Dot Definition user events system events or the like. That is at a minimum a Dot comprises a definition of a graphical user interface frame and content to be rendered within or associated with that frame. Thus a critical function of the Home Dot is to parse the Dot definition render the frame obtain the content and render the content in or associated with the frame.

As previously discussed the Home Dot comprises Internet content. Thus the Home Dot is in part a content parser providing rendering of the graphical user interface GUI from Internet content.

Furthermore Dots originate on remote network devices. Thus another function of the Home Dot client side is to obtain and organize Dots on the computer on which the Home Dot resides.

The Home Dot is a part of a client server system. As a client installed in one of a multitude of client computers all communicating with a Dot server the Home Dot maintains communication with that server to perform system functions for the client. These system functions require a defined command set or functions calls between the client and server. Such functions may include user login user account status use statistics Dot downloads individual Dot configurations or user customizations Dot organization revision updates for both Dot and Home Dot installations.

Because the present invention enables versatility in the manner of packaging and operating with Internet media forming application media packages and because the breadth of internet media and the scope of available information is expansive the present invention also provides for methods of Dot organization on a user s client computer. More specifically the Home Dot provides for Dot management for a large number of Dots. Such methods of management include grouping Dots into an organized layout for persistent display categorizing and grouping Dots into Dot Packs opening and closing sets of Dots or Dot Packs according to a user s current information requirements and configuring individual Dots either by user defined categorization or customization parameters that have been enabled by a Dot s developer.

The Home Dot according to the present invention provides for methods for grouping Dots sharing information between Dots and sharing these groupings with others. In other words the present invention provides for methods by which a user or other third party or collectively third parties may build upon the utility of Dots as an atomic media element by adding their context through grouping and configuration. In doing so the present invention enables the addition of third party knowledge that may or may not include the participation of the original Dot developers. Furthermore the present invention provides for mechanisms by which this knowledge is shared. These mechanisms include saving the customization states of individual Dots grouping of a plurality of Dots and saving them to a Dot server and emailing links to other users or installing these links in a web page. Additionally the present invention provides for third parties to share collaborative efforts by posting such groupings and customizations on a Dot server for general availability.

In addition to grouping and customization sharing information and events between Dots is provided for by the present invention. The Home Dot routes messages between Dots and the system. Messaging enables Dots to act upon one another such that an action or event that affects one Dot may also be routed to another Dot thus affecting a change to it or an action to be taken by it. The resulting actions or changes of the individual Dots may not be the same. To support messaging generally levels of restrictions are also provided for. It is therefore possible to control the scope of messages received by a Dot from other Dots according to membership or domains. Likewise it is possible to control transmission of messages to other Dots. Therefore the present invention provides for cooperative messaging and information sharing between Dots as enabled by Dot developers.

In one embodiment the server is a high availability system comprising a plurality of individual servers functioning together on a server network. Such a configuration advantageously services a large number of simultaneously executing client Home Dots. Whereas the client application or Home Dot provides for those services surrounding enabled or instantiated Dots the server network and its applications as embodied in a web site Java servlets an RDBMS Dot and Home Dot distribution support provides for the development and distribution of Dots. Additionally as the Home Dot performs the optional features of collecting statistics surrounding Dot usage and posting these statistics to the server the server may aggregate these statistics for reporting. According to one aspect of the invention the server operating together with the Home Dot may source or enable messages to specific Dots based upon real time context of user interaction with Dots. This function enables for example real time context based advertising. See also the Client Server Protocols section of Appendix B. 

With reference again to according to one embodiment of the present invention Home Dot application enables users to collect Dots etc. organize those Dots into collections manage the collections with organizational and workspace management functionality e.g. categories Snapshots group move and easily share Dots Dotpacks and Snapshots with others. Also the Home Dot application implements and enables a Dot Messaging Architecture DMA discussed further below providing messaging between Dots and the Dot server system.

When Dots are instantiated on a client machine the Home Dot application collects usage statistics and keeps an event log in XML format that is intermittently sent to Dot application servers and stored for example as part of the Dot database as use statistics . This enables the Dot server to track how the Home Dot application and the Dots are being used and shared. In one embodiment this is implemented as a local MFC Microsoft Foundation Class application on the Windows platform thus enabling rapid user response no Internet delay for functional UI components . Home Dot application functionality may also be provided across platforms MAC O S Linux unix mobile wap etc. 

Each user of a Home Dot application has a Home Dot application login account that accesses step of a personal user profile stored on a Dot server that stores the last state of the Home Dot application along with which Dots a user has collected and how the user has organized their collection according to categories Snapshots or packs.

When the Home Dot application is launched it queries the network for configuration information enables a user to login retrieves the user s profile from the Dot application server and restores the Home Dot application to the last state that was stored to the application server .

The method used by Home Dot to access remote configuration information again step of creates a very flexible application that can be configured to support different application looks different login sequences dynamically by session and for each for each user. The user profile retrieved at login enables the application to be personalized for a user and allows that user to access that personalized application state on different client computers or devices .

When the Home Dot application is launched it reads the registry on the client machine to find the location of a configuration file session config . The session config XML file directs the Home Dot application to an application server using a URL as the server address that will handle its servlet requests. The URL points the Home Dot application to a default graphic element skin and generic Dot graphic elements for controls such as the Title Bar Bottom bar etc. and it points to Dot definitions for several default Dots such as a Help Dot Add New Dot and Login Dot i.e. System Dots that support the Home Dot application as described further below .

For security the session config is served by a servlet method operating on the Dot application server that only responds to authorized Home Dot applications . The session config can also be served as a flat file from a standard web local directory.

The session config file contains a mechanism to redirect the Home Dot application to another session config file. This mechanism may look like 

The session config file contains a mechanism to force or provide an option to upgrade the Home Dot application. This mechanism employs a version tracking such as 

According to one embodiment of the present invention three system level Dots are provided with a Home Dot the AddNew Dot the Help Dot and the Login Dot. Dot definitions for these System Dots are referenced in the session config. System Dots are Dot definitions that are not explicitly listed in the Home Dot application or a user s ALL CONFIG but are accessible via the Home Dot user interface.

The AddNew Dot enables users to access the Dot Index through the Home Dot application and find new Dots and Snapshots to collect. The Help Dot contains help content for the Home Dot application .

The Login Dot is what first comes up when the Home Dot application is launched. It enables the user to login to the Home Dot application .

One feature of the present invention is the ability to provide a user with the option to try or sample Dots. According to one implementation of this feature if a user doesn t have a Home Dot application login account or is not logged in then the Home Dot application is in trial mode. Dots can be sampled by clicking on Dot links but not kept.

A user may decide to keep or not keep a Dot. According to one embodiment to keep a Dot a KeepMe Dot is displayed with Dots that are sampled unique to Dot developer or provider that informs the user that a Home Dot application login account is required to keep the Dots. The KeepMe Dot has a mechanism link that enables users to create a new Home Dot application login account and keep the Dots by adding them to the new user s Dot definitions or user profile .

Each Home Dot application user has a Home Dot application login account that accesses a personal user profile stored server . When a user launches and logs in to the Home Dot application it retrieves the user profile from server and restores the Home Dot application to the state in which the user left it thus recovering their personal application experience. When the user logs out their user profile is updated on server .

This mechanism enables different users to use the same client computer and receive different application experiences or the same user to use different client computers or devices and receive the same coherent experience. The application restores itself to its last saved state no matter where a user may log in.

After the Home Dot application retrieves its configuration information it renders the Login Dot from the Dot definition specified in the SESSION CONFIG. The Login Dot s Dot content asks the user for login and password sends the login request to the Dot server servlet also specified in the SESSION CONFIG and retrieves the user s profile required to restore the Home Dot application.

A Home Dot user s profile holds the state of the user s Home Dot application size position on the screen which Dots were open along with which Dots the user has collected and how the user has organized their collection categories Snapshots or packs . The profile is stored in an XML file called the user s . The ALL CONFIG file contains a SHARE and a LASTSTATE element as described below. The Share may look something like the following 

The Dot application server support much of the functionality of Home Dot application such as logging in out collecting adding and sharing Dots and Snapshots Home Dot usages logging etc. 

All communication between Home Dot application and the Dot application server is secure and occurs over standard communication protocols HTTPS . HTTP HTTPS is chosen for the socket level client server communication protocol because of its simplicity and more importantly because most firewalls typically leave the default handling of the HTTP HTTPS communication with the client.

The Home Dot communicates to the server via an HTTP request. The HTTP request URL contains an API call. Any API calls that require the uploading of data to the server place the data in the message body of the request. API calls that require uploading downloading of data send receive that data in XML format. All API calls are the end part of a complete URL that begins with 

The preferred embodiment of the Dot application server application that supports the Home Dot application currently supports a number of servelt methods including the following 

The adduser method is used to create a new Dot user account. Note that this is available as an end user API to allow new users to add themselves rather than wait for an administrator to do it for them.

The getuser method retrieves the user s own demographic data. This method supports the ability of the Home Dot application to then allow updates to the user s demographic information using the setUser method see below .

The setUser method is used to update an existing user account. Note that this is available as an end user API to allow existing users to update themselves rather than wait for an administrator to do it for them.

The getsession Config method is used to retrieve general Home Dot application configuration information.

The setPassword method provides a mechanism for the user to change their associated Dot server account password.

The getMasterDotlist method requests the list of all Dot templates known by the server . The server returns a message body in predefined XML format see the DOT MASTERLIST DTD and example of all possible Dots and their default template values. Note that included in each Dot element are a version stamp and dotclass ID s which allows the Home Dot application to determine if it has the most up to date Dot template and Dot class binaries for that Dot. The Home Dot application may then request the updated Dot template see the getDotTemplate method and or dotclass binary zip file see the getDotClassBinaries method .

The setAllConfig method sends at the entire body of user specific client side configuration information including all Snapshots Dots general settings etc. to the server for persistent storage on behalf of the user. The user profile data is sent as the message body in a predefined XML format see the ALL CONFIG DTD and example . The response returned by the server indicates success or failure.

The getAllConfig method retrieves at the last user specific server side saved client side configuration information all Snapshots Dots general settings etc from the server . The data is sent as the message body in a predefined XML format see the ALL CONFIG DTD and example .

The setAllEvents method sends at usage information that has accumulated since the last call to setAllEvents to the server for later use in statistical usage report generation for DoDots s own use . The data is sent as the message body in a predefined XML format see the ALL EVENTS DTD and example . The response returned by the server indicates success or failure.

The getDotTemplate method requests from the server a specific Dot Template Dot definition from the Dot database. The server returns the XML that describes the Dot. This method is called when the Home Dot application has determined that it does not have the current version of the Dot and the user wants the most recent version. NOTE this includes when the user is downloading the Dot for the first time 

The addshare method stores at a specific shared Dot s or Snapshot s . The server takes the XML that was uploaded by the Home Dot application for sharing and returns the unique id of the share. The Home Dot application puts the XML stream to be shared in the request body.

The getshare method requests from the server a specific shared Dot s or Snapshot s . The server returns the XML that was stored for sharing by the original sending user. The format of the returned XML stream is dependent on what has been shared.

Returning to the Home Dot application may advantageously implement a caching layer between its network requests and the network . The Home Dot application sends network requests to the caching layer and the caching layer is responsible for completing those requests retrying if necessary .

This is used in the event that the Dot application server does not respond. If a user is attempting to log in and the server does not respond then the Home Dot application logs in using a locally cached the last written user application state can be saved in the caching layer . If a user attempts to log out and the server does not respond then the caching layer retries at a later time to write the logout application state to the server .

To get a Dot and invoke it that is turn it on the Home Dot application requires the Dot s definition XML file with the information necessary to instantiate a Dot and point it to Internet content . With reference again to a user collects Dots from multiple sources by clicking on Dot links Internet link to a Dot s Dot definition and or by receiving a Share Dots and Snapshots shared from other users . In both cases the Dot definitions for the Dots involved are hosted and served by a Dot application server .

Users can find Dots Dot links in the Dot server DotIndex online Database of Dots via a web browser or the AddNew Dot and or promoted on a content provider server e.g. via a web site. When a user clicks on a DotLink and the Home Dot application is installed the Home Dot application retrieves the Dot definition that the DotLink points to adds it to the current user s ALL CONFIG file of user profile and turns the Dot on . The Dot instantiates the UI and begins filling it with the Dot content Internet content as defined in the Dot definition.

Once a user receives a Dot the Home Dot application saves the Dot s definition as part of the user s ALL CONFIG file . Because a Dot definition becomes part of a user profile it can be modified by use e.g. its default TitleBar image may be changed or its WebConduit control may be navigated to a different URL using DMA messages. The Dot will pick up where it left off next time it is turned on.

Dots can also be received in the form of Shares. A Share is a XML file that represents a collection of one or more Dots and or one or more Snapshots. A Share may be shared for example by attaching a Share Link to a standard email message. When a user receives an emailed Share Link from another user and clicks on the Share Link in the email 

According to one embodiment of the present invention every Dot that a user gets is added to and becomes part of the user s ALL CONFIG and becomes accessible to the user anywhere they can login to a Home Dot application . According to another embodiment a user is provided with the option to keep or discard a sampled Dot prior to adding it the user s ALL CONFIG .

If the Home Dot application is not installed on a client computer when a user first attempts to get receive Dots then the Home Dot application is downloaded and installed with the first Dots that are received. From that point forward the client machine is Dot enabled and the user is not required to download and install the Home Dot again subject to updates . This method removes the alternative approach known today in the art which is to download a custom client application from each company s web server that is visited.

Once a client machine is Dot enabled i.e. the Home Dot application technology installed then every time that a user clicks on a Dot link the Dot pops up immediately faster than it would take to load a small web page . Rather than download and install software for different Dots only the Dot definitions which are packaged web readable content is collected.

The Home Dot application enables users to organize Dots that they have collected in their ALL CONFIG by categories. A Dot can be a member of more than one category. Alternatively a Dot is not required to be categorized i.e. set attribute categorized uncategorized . The Home Dot application enables the user to Add Remove Rename categories and edit a category s contents those Dots that are members of that category . Categories may also be assigned by the Dot creator which may or may not be overwritten. 

In the preferred embodiment Dots keep track of the categories to which they are members e.g. there is no master category list . The categories to which a Dot belongs are added to the Dot s definition in the user s ALL CONFIG .

The Home Dot application has one unique category the ALL MY DOTS category users cannot rename or remove this category . This category contains all the Dots that the user currently has in their collection in their ALL CONFIG . Removing Dots from the ALL MY DOTS category removes it from ALL CONFIG . A user can duplicate a Dot from within the ALL MY DOTS category in the event they want two of the same Dot e.g. 2 stock watching Dots one for monitoring a first security and the other for tracking a second security .

The Home Dot application provides for several features enabling visually organizing collecting and working with Dots individually and as a system. Referring to B and C a series of drawings depicting a user interface for the organization of Dots on a computer desktop is shown.

To improve ease of use when working with Dots in groups the Home Dot application enables users to capture an image or Snapshot of a workspace that they have defined with Dots. Such Snapshots may include for example which Dots are on and where they are positioned on a display screen . Users can instantly recall these Snapshots to restore the previously defined set of Dots to their captured locations on screen .

Snapshots can be created to support different work tasks e.g. morning news pack web development pack different user groups e.g. small business pack runners health pack school study pack or different activities e.g. day trading dream team sports tracking . Within a Snapshot may be user created Share Packs groupings of Dots created for example using Share Links . In addition Dot developers can create and publish Packs which are groups of Dots designed to work together or which may be of similar related interested to a user and online content providers can offer their users pre made Packs.

Users can easily and quickly create and configure reconfigure their own aggregation of content and functionality as Dots thus providing a user aggregated content application system. This is significantly different than current Internet functions of offering users My versions of a full screen Internet site in which the choice of content arrangement presentation style etc. are quite limited.

Dots may be aggregated together and manipulated as a block. Blocks are defined as linear clusters of Dots snapped together vertically or horizontally . An example of a group of Dots not in a block is shown in . That is in the group of Dots are not aligned with one another with reference to either a horizontal or vertical axis. Two examples of the Dots comprising group arranged in a blocks are shown in respectively.

Blocks of Dots have an orientation vertical Dots snapped to each other in a vertical column as in or horizontal Dots snapped to each other in a horizontal row as in . In one embodiment the Home Dot application or Dots or expose a UI mechanism e.g. CTRL O see slamming to enable users to change the orientation of Blocks of Dots.

Blocks of Dots can have a justification. When a block of Dots are justified they share a common edge such that all edges on one side of the Dots are lined up. For example a vertical block of Dots all snapped toward the right side of the screen is right justified as shown in . In one possible embodiment the Home Dot application or the Dots exposes a UI mechanism e.g. SHIFT CTRL CTRL J see slamming to enable users to change the justification of Blocks of Dots left center right .

Slamming blocks of Dots against screen edges or other window edges is used as a mechanism to alter the justification and or orientation of a Block of Dots. For example a user may slam a horizontal block against the left edge of the screen and the Block s orientation could swing vertical and justified to the left with all Dots snapped to the left of the screen. Likewise a horizontal block that is bottom justified may be slammed against the top edge of the screen changing it to a top justified Block.

One feature provided by an embodiment of the present invention to assist a user with the organization and presentation of Dots is the snap feature. A Dot for example snaps to other Dots and for example other windows not shown and screen boundaries edges . When Dots are dragged moved near an edge or a magnetism behavior is exhibited and the Dot accelerates towards and snaps to that edge or . The present invention provides for a magnetic gap such that even when Dots are snapped to edges there still exists a gap 5 pixels . This gap is supported so that the user may easily visually recognize independent Dots.

The snapping feature simplifies the task for users to quickly and neatly align Dots. See . When Dots and are snapped together and a Dot is collapsed or resized then a Dot that is snapped to another Dot can move accordingly for example staying snapped or not according to user preference.

The user interface of the present invention supports the movement of Dots or in clusters. All Dots or that share an edge snapped together cluster group can be grabbed and moved as a group which may but need not be a block .

The present invention teaches multiple methods of selecting a cluster of Dots as opposed to a single Dot for example . The simplest method comprises of pressing the CTRL key before grabbing a member Dot any one of or of the cluster . This method selects the entire cluster and moves all Dots as one unit.

Another way is to change the user s selection that is which Dots or in the cluster are selected for moving by the number of times a user clicks before grabbing a member Dot or of the cluster . For example 

The present invention provides for a unique method of indicating which Dots in a cluster are selected for a group action such as move or minimize . When multiple Dots are selected by either method CTRL Select or Click Select a halo appears around the selected Dots. In one embodiment halo shown only in is a contrastingly shaded or brightly colored line 3 pixels wide floating around the outer perimeter edges of the Dots selected in a cluster . The halo remains visible as the Dots are moved.

The Home Dot application provides methods for users to easily and quickly Share the Dots that they have collected and the Snapshots that they have created with others. An exemplary delivery mechanism is email. The user s default mail client application is used a user can use their existing address book and add a detailed message a web based mail service extended through the Home Dot application or Dots may also be used. To share and convey shared Dots or Snapshots in an email a Share Link is required an Internet link that points to stored Share data on the Dot application server .

When a user receives a Share of Dots Snapshots from another user and clicks on the ShareLink in the email 

The Share recipient can now turn on any Dot and Snapshot received as part of the Share. Because the Share was constructed from Dot definitions that were part of the Sharing user s ALL CONFIG the recipient receives the Dots just as the Sharing user had configured them at the time of building the Share.

The client server model of the preferred embodiment is described to according to . Paramount for the successful implementation of a consumer or high volume system is the proper separation of responsibilities between Dot clients and the Dot server system . The architecture presented herein supports the primary operations of Dot distribution client installation use statistics collection as well as Dot developer activities. These operations as described above are supported in part by the XML structure and calls as listed in the attached appendices A and B. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the list is not exhaustive but descriptive of an implementation of certain features of the present invention.

The Dot server system which is required for support of the general Dot functionality provides for persistent storage and retrieval of configuration and statistical usage information and for intelligent software upgrade service for the Dot clients . Users are required to logon to the Dot server system with a username and password to access this information. The server also provides for generating statistical analysis reports. The server is used to provide small persistent data storage areas for third party Dots. The server may be maintained by a single administration entity and does not require third party Dot providers for its support. The content contained by the Dot however may be provided by the third party developers with the initial content optionally being supplied by existing or re purposed web pages served by the third party web servers. An administrative interface is therefore provided according to the present invention which is used by the administration entity to maintain the software upgrade information manage users and generate statistical usage reports.

Web servers Servlet JSP Engines which maintain a Java based XML Parser with SAX Simple API for XML and DOM Document Object Model interfaces all of which share a common file system and at least one Relational Database Management System RDBMS Server which supports the RDBMS file system .

According to one embodiment of the present invention there are no specific operating systems application server or database server constraints placed on the server e.g. the operating system O S may be NT Solaris HP UX Linux or FreeBSD or any other viable server O S. The RDBMS may be Oracle Sybase Informix SQLServer etc. .

The client and server transmit and receive data on the internet in XML format over standard HTTP HTTPS. An XML parser residing on the Servlet JSP Engine assists in deconstructing and reconstructing the XML into and out of the RDBMS Server when the XML stream contains information that is needed for report generation. XML parsers with DOM and SAX interfaces are freely available for most major programming languages. HTTP HTTPS and therefore a web server is chosen for the socket level client server communication protocol because of its simplicity and more importantly because most firewalls typically leave the default TCP ports for HTTP HTTPS ports and respectively unblocked.

The Web servers provide the default handling of the HTTP HTTPS communication with the Dot client . The Servlet JSP Engine functions as an in process extension of the Web servers and provides the infrastructure for the application logic layer servlets and the presentation layer Java Server pages . Servlet JSP is chosen over the architecturally similar ASP due to consideration in performance maintenance costs and the variety of O S and application server vendor choices.

The persistent storage mechanism for everything except the binary software components client component updates is Relational Database Management System RDBMS . The binary software component for client updates are stored in the file system with a pointer full pathname which is stored in the database to each component file. The binary software components are not stored directly in the RDBMS in so as to improve performance.

Since the configuration data need not be manipulated or reported on by the server the configuration data is stored directly in the RDBMS as a small text file in the form by which it is transmitted from the client . The configuration data is not deconstructed and reconstructed into its constituent parts by the XML parser on the servers . The statistical data is used to generate reports on the server side by a servlet JSP based administrative interface. SQL queries are used for statistical report generation to provide simplicity and flexibility. Therefore a single statistical data XML stream is deconstructed upon receipt by an XML parser residing on the Servlet JSP Engine and stored as discrete RDBMS columns the entire stream instance is the RDBMS row rather than storing the entire stream in a single text column.

It is possible to provide for the development and testing of new Dots Categories Packs etc. in a physically separate system that is a superset duplicate with additional testing support of the production system . The development and testing dev test system has additional server methods and interfaces not present in the production system which requires higher security and simplified maintenance to facilitate the development and testing process. The interfaces to these additional server methods are HTML JSP pages to allow for easy accommodation of new geographically distributed Dot content providers.

The development and test system allows the Dot content providers to easily build and test new Dots and Dot Packs. When tested to their satisfaction the Dot content providers can then through the interface submit their Dots packs for inclusion in the production system. The Dot administrator will be able to periodically run a report to see which Dots packs were submitted. The Dot administrator is then able to decide whether or not to approve a Dot pack for import into the production system. Migration of an approved Dot pack will involve exporting the appropriate data from the RDBMS on the development and test system moving the export file from the development and test system and importing the export file into the production system.

Dots and the Home Dot application have a messaging architecture Dot Messaging Architecture DMA that enables elements of the system including Dots controls within Dots and the Home Dot application to communicate with one another. This enables these elements to exchange information request actions or functionality and respond to system element or content events.

All elements of the system can send and receive via paths and DMA messages. In this embodiment these elements fall into three groups the Dots the Controls in the Dot s control space including the WebConduit control and base controls that encompass menu controls and window operations controls and the system control embodied within the Home Dot application .

The DMA enables controls to send and receive messages. Controls can exchange messages with other elements in the same Dot controls in the control space Dot frame System or in a different Dot the addressing scheme supports addressing elements in other Dots. All Dot controls share a set of common messages. They also can provide messages that are unique to that control see WebConduit Control . Common control messages include messages such as 

The Web Conduit control supports additional messages in addition to the common control messages explained previously . These unique Web Conduit messages enable other elements in the Dot System Controls Dot frames Home Dot application to interact with WebConduit functionality request actions or functions and respond to events . Messages unique to the WebConduit control which is a wrapped Microsoft IE web control in the preferred embodiment include 

One of the most significant features of the WebConduit control is that DMA enables messages to flow IN and OUT of standard HTML rendered within a control. The preferred embodiment currently extends DHTML and javascript to send and respond to DMA messages. The present invention supports SendMessage a synchronous method which is used if return result is required and PostMessage an asynchronous method in which no return result required methods that can be called using a window.external. call from DHTML in the Web Conduit control .

The preferred embodiment of the message format explained in more detail in the following sections allows for two types of messages to be sent IN and OUT of HTML with respect to the WebConduit control. Specific messages and functions can be called e.g. navigate that cause a WebConduit to perform a specific action or function. In addition any javascript e.g. can be called within a WebConduit s document as well.

This provides the messaging architecture with exceptional flexibility and extensibility in which data can be passed functions can be called and variables can be set. Integrating DMA with standard Web content by enabling DMA messages to call into HTML and for DMA messages to be initiated from HTML within the WebConduit control is the basis that enables Dots to exhibit true application behavior.

Any DMA message that is defined can be sent or called from DHTML. This in conjunction with the application logic capability that is provided by javascript and other HTML scripting languages provides the application media development environment which includes application development platform and language . A Dot developer can thus author a new Dot application by developing web content HTML GIF files etc. and by packaging that content in a Dot Definition eliminating the need for compilers and consequently downloading executables. Therefore if a client device has been Dot enabled the Home Dot application is installed then that device can instantaneously view open run Dots as well as modify and save their configurations.

DMA messages can be sent to and received from a Dot. This enables elements of the system that can send and receive DMA messages to interact with a Dot. Elements of a Dot s definition can be accessed modified using Dot messages. Examples of Dot Properties Dot methods that can be accessed and modified via the DMA include 

Since a message can originate from DHTML content which is rendered in the Web Conduit control as Dot content standard web content when rendered in a Dot can therefore access properties and behaviors of its packaging the Dot . Internet content can therefore do such things as modify the size of the Dot that is rendering it. It can move it or collapse it.

The present invention therefore enables properties and behaviors to be tied to and between any Dot content event even outside of a Dot affecting another Dot e.g. an internet content DHTML mouse over event can change the size and position of another Dot etc. 

Most of the DMA examples thus presented are of other elements sending messages to the Dot frame for example . An example of a Dot frame sending messages can be seen in the case of the menu control discussed further below . The Dot frame may also send messages as can the menu control based upon the occurrence of certain events such as Dot moving Dot collapsed expanded Dot infocus inactive etc.

The preferred embodiment has the menu control implemented as part of the Dot Frame . Menu control entries are given tied to actions using the DMA. Each menu entry may consist of inter alia a text title an icon a tooltip an ID and an action. The action is simply a DMA message that has a recipient specified address. Dot menu control items are defined as part of a Dot definition.

When a menu entry within a menu control is selected by a user the specified Dot Message is sent to the specified recipient DMA address . This illustrates an example of the true application behavior that is exhibited by Dot Content having access to DMA.

As with the functionality described in the previous sections the following are examples of types of additional application behaviors that are possible 

DMA messages can also be sent to and received from the system the functional layer above and between individual Dots. Some aspects for which the system is responsible include DMA message routing adding removing opening closing Dots etc. In the preferred embodiment the system includes the Home Dot application or equivalent Dot rendering and Dot management client application.

Examples of system functions and behaviors that can be accessed and called using DMA messages include 

Messages can be sent to from controls WebConduit control in and out of HTML to and from the Dot DotFrame menu control Titlebar bottom bar flexible Dot Definition to and from the system Home Dot application open and close Dots system variables and data . The DMA addressing scheme also provides for messages to be sent to any Dot to any control in any Dot to any HTML in any control in any Dot. This enables Dots to work together as an application system enables Dot developers to share functionality and leverage and build on the functionality of other Dots.

In the preferred embodiment a DMA message has two components a recipient address and the message body itself. Both are represented as strings. The addressing scheme is explained in the next section.

The body of a DMA messages is at its simplest a text string which may represent any javascript for example sent to a Web Conduit control. For defined messages there is a method element to define the function behavior call request e.g. set size followed by arguments if the method element requires them e.g. height in DotUnits width in DotUnits .

The present invention provides for two functions that enable messages to be generated from within DHTML in the WebConduit control SendMessage and PostMessage. SendMessage which is synchronous is used if a return value is required. PostMessage which is asynchronous is used otherwise.

One of the ways that a Dot is identified is by a Domain. In the preferred embodiment the Domain is the same as a Dot provider s ID developer ID . Generally this is a unique identifier for each company or developer and is specified in a Dot s definition.

Dots in the same domain by default can communicate to one another without explicitly specifying the domain in the address. When no messaging access restrictions are placed on addressing a Dot according to its domain by default there are restrictions then a Dot can also send messages to another Dot belonging to a different domain by explicitly addressing that Dot by its domain and Dot specifier.

Dots are further identified with a kind attribute as a part of the Dot Definition and by an ID attribute. The ID is volatile and is not typically hard coded into DHTML scripts. The addressing scheme allows for a Dot to be specified by explicitly referencing or querying a Dot s kind or ID identifier attribute.

Similarly controls are identified by kind and by ID also a part of the Dot Definition . Controls can also be specified by explicitly referencing or querying its kind or ID.

In the preferred embodiment there are several permitted forms for the address of a message recipient. The fundamental one is 

Specifiers have four different forms The first form specifies the unique ID of the Dot control domain in question. An example of this first form is 

The second form allows the sender to address a message to the closest matching recipient by some form of search criteria. Multiple Dots or controls might be of the same kind enabling broadcasting a message to these elements. An example of this second form is 

The third form enables reference to a specific Dot or control allowing messages to be sent within a Dot. If a particular control is specified then it must be specifically referenced in the Dot. An example of this third form is 

The final form is specifically for the control specifier. If a message is to be directed to a Dot and not a control the control specifier must be empty. An example of this last form is 

The current embodiment supports messages to a specific recipient the addressing routing scheme could support messages addressed to multiple simultaneous recipients broadcast . Similarly Dots can address Dots on the same platform or client computer or device the addressing or routing scheme may also support messages addressed to Dots Controls Home Dot applications on other devices or by user. The Home Dot application routes messages sent between Dots and resolves addressing queries e.g. address A Any first Dot of kind A found in the Home Dot application .

Since the Home Dot application routes messages between Dots it can allow or restrict Dots from addressing and sending messages to other Dots outside their own domain the Home Dot application could also restrict messages to within the same Dot . For example Dot is a member of domain B as is Dot whereas Dot is a member of Domain A. Home Dot can permit or deny messaging between Dot and Dots and and vice versa.

The Home Dot application acts to enforce the access rights to and between published messages built on the DMA API. In one embodiment the Home Dot application accesses a database of published message methods implemented by Dot Developers and restricts allows messages to pass based on access criteria data posted to the data base.

For example a Dot developer could specify 2 public functions 2 functions with access restricted by partner Domain or for example and 2 functions with access restricted by Dot address. The Home Dot application may allow or restrict messages to be sent to one Dot from other Dots according to access criteria specified by the Dot developer.

The Home Dot application also responds to messages sent to system. Access to system features functions behaviors is one aspect of the present invention that enables extensibility of the Home Dot application system.

The Home Dot application Dot system and method of collecting use statistics from Home Dot applications and application servers enables the present invention to build and query a multidimensional use profiling database. Because Dots are used in groups and used more often for longer periods of time than web pages sites the present invention may collect real time multidimensional use statistics according to which Dots are ON for example together or simultaneously that over time becomes a valuable multi dimensional user behavior profiling database. The Dot server collects use statistics from its Home Dot application on clients and manages and tracks Home Dot application downloads access to Dot Index etc.

Information on a Dots user can be monitored in a multi dimensional fashion. Instead of classifying a user based solely on their demographic characteristics and linear use of the internet the present invention enables tracking on an additional dimension. A user can be classified according to which Dots they use at the same time instead of only how they navigate within an individual viewer the browser . This user information can be packaged and sold to content providers so that they can better provide services to their users.

Because the present invention enables multi dimensional profiling a service may be provided by the operator of this system and its partners to customize advertisements and offerings to users in a more efficient and targeted manner. Tracking this profiling data in real time allows the operator to tailor these offerings to users of specific Dots in a way that is not otherwise possible today. For example one content provider partner can be informed that users of a certain Dot are also disproportionately monitoring content about a specific topic through another Dot. This information is then used to target ads at the moment the peripheral interests of that content providers Dot users are known. The present invention enables this information to be tracked as a complete system. The system can be utilized to facilitate serving advertisements and offerings based on the information that it collects.

The Home Dot application records application events in an XML log that intermittently gets uploaded to the Dot application server . Application events that are logged include the following by timestamp and by session 

The following outlines the types of questions the use statistics of the present invention can answer regarding Home Dot application and Dot use 

The Home Dot application intermittently sends its event logs to the Dot application server using the setAllEvents servlet method. The Home Dot application s events are logged and sent as an XML file in a format specified by the CALL EVENTS.

Categorizing Dots and or Dotcontent by context keywords e.g. CNN Dot and FoxNews Dot News CBS Sportsline Dot Sports enables the Home Dot application to build a real time accessible via the DMA multi dimensional use context on the fly based on which Dots the user currently has ON e.g. assemble the keywords of the currently open Dots into a multi dimensional keyword string . This highly resolved view of a user s behavior enables the Home Dot application to source a very targeted offering commerce opportunity or ad and or enable Dot developers to do the same. In one embodiment the Home Dot application supports a DMA message pay to access that provides Dot developers with access to this type of information e.g. SendMessage system get use context string 

The Home Dot application supports a developer toolkit service that sources ads targeted according to this multi dimensional use context generated by the Home Dot application more targeted than currently possible with singular contexts such as text strings e.g. searched on toys serve a toy ad . The Home Dot application and or Dot application server monitors tracks and handles incremental billing for all parties e.g. anonymously .

Many variations on the above description are contemplated and within the scope of the present disclosure. For example in an alternate embodiment the Home Dot application interface is implemented entirely as Dot content served from Dot application server . Furthermore the Home Dot application itself may be packaged as a Dot. The Home Dot application Dot has special responsibilities and rights but otherwise it could be as much a Dot as any other Dot. This embodiment enables the application executable to be significantly smaller and the Home Dot application UI to be significantly more flexible.

In yet another alternate embodiment the Home Dot application is implemented as a plug in to the web browser.

In still another alternate embodiment the Home Dot application is implemented in Java thus enabling it to be more easily portable to other platforms.

Additionally in another embodiment a subset of the Home Dot application functionality is implemented through the browser using pop ups this would be particularly valuable to mobile Home Dot application users who don t always have easy access to a computer with the Home Dot application installed.

The present invention enables the definition of an interface that groups Dots together from different content providers and offers them to end users as part of a unique system of content. Content from different internet companies can be made to interact with each other using aspects of the present invention provided for in the Dot messaging architecture DMA . The Dot server may therefore be provided with functionality to broker these relationships and facilitate this interaction in Internet content between companies and between Dot enabled internet sites.

Because Dots can work together via DMA and packs the present invention enables companies or content providers to enable their Dots to work together. The present invention provides for another layer built upon the DMA API application programming interface that specifies how different kinds and types of Dots from different companies or developers communicate work together. This layer is optionally open source so that a large portion of it is self published by the Dot Developers themselves.

Dot Developers implement specify and publish in a database DMA message methods that other Dot Developers implement through calls made within their published Dots. These Dot developer methods may be aggregated and published for use in a database provided by the Home Dot publisher for example and sourced within a developer zone or as part of a Dot Definition.

Dot developers may implement these DMA message methods as Java script functions that other Dot Developers calls with the DMA s message. Dot Developers would need to be able to address a particular Dot s Web Conduit control that supports a page implementing the specified Javascript function and address by domain if different from their domain. Restricted or variable permissions may be provided via a web server or defined in a Dot s Dot Definition to restrict enable routing of messages.

A Dot Developer has the option to restrict access to certain methods according to some criteria e.g. public partners domain. Different types of restriction criteria schemes may be implemented. A Dot may send a message to another Dot and query for methods accessible to it. An example of access levels for functions is provided below.

A published API that specifies ways for Dots to extend functionality to other Dots enables Dot Developers to leverage the development work and functionality of other Dots. As an example a Dot Developer may implement a credit card processing Dot. In one embodiment this Dot is implemented as a javascript function that checks the credit available on a credit card. This developer could specify this as a public function in the Dot Definition for example and publish this function in a Server Dot Index. Other Dot Developers send a message to this Dot and call check credit thus leveraging the development carried out from the first Dot Developer.

In the above example the messaging architecture may provide revenue generation by way of monthly fees per access fees etc. The Home Dot application and or Dot application servers could monitor track and automatically handle incremental billing for all parties. By applying this method to the previous example a Dot Developer who calls a credit card processing Dot for a credit check may be incrementally billed for each such call.

It will be appreciated that the methods in the form of instructions having a sequence syntax and content of the present invention may be stored on or equivalently in any of a wide variety of computer readable media such as magnetic media optical media magneto optical media electronic media e.g. solid state ROM or RAM etc. the form of which media not limiting the scope of the present invention. A data processor reading said media is operable to either transfer e.g. download said instructions thereto and then operate on those instructions or cause said instructions to be read from the media and operate in response thereto. Furthermore devices e.g. a reader for accessing the instructions on said media may be contained within or connected directly to the data processor residing on a device on which those instructions operate or may be connected via a network or other communication pathway to said data processor.

While a plurality of preferred exemplary embodiments have been presented in the foregoing detailed description it should be understood that a vast number of variations exist and these preferred exemplary embodiments are merely representative examples and are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. Rather the foregoing detailed description provides those of ordinary skill in the art with a convenient guide for implementation of the invention by way of examples and contemplates that various changes in the functions and arrangements of the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention defined by the claims thereto.

