---

title: Mobile station assisted timing synchronization in a CDMA communication system
abstract: In the present invention, the slave base station attains synchronization with the reference base station through messages transmitted from and received by a mobile station either in the soft handoff region between the reference base station and the slave base station or within a range which allows the mobile station to communicate with the slave base station. When the mobile station is not in communication with both the reference base station and the slave base station, then the round trip delay between the mobile station and the reference base station is measured by the reference base station. The reference base station communicates the PN code used by the mobile station over the reverse link to the slave base station. The slave base station acquires the signal from the mobile station and determines when the signal from the mobile station arrives. The slave base station then makes an estimate as to the length of the delay between transmission of a signal from the mobile station to the slave base station. Based upon these measurements and estimates, the slave base station determines the error which is present in the slave base station system time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08184611&OS=08184611&RS=08184611
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08184611
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071113
---
This application is a continuation application of co pending application Ser. No. 09 841 893 filed Apr. 25 2001 and entitled Mobile Station Assisted Timing Synchronization in a CDMA Communication System which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 008 203 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 307 840 filed Jan. 16 1998 which in turn is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 08 933 888 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 872 774 filed Sep. 19 1997.

The present invention relates to communication systems. More particularly the present invention relates to a novel and improved method and apparatus for synchronizing a base station by means of signals transmitted from a mobile station which is concurrently in communication with a synchronized base station.

The use of code division multiple access CDMA modulation techniques is but one of several techniques for facilitating communications in which a large number of system users are present. Although other techniques such as time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA and AM modulation schemes such as amplitude companded single sideband ACSSB are known CDMA has significant advantages over these other modulation techniques. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307 entitled SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS and U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING SIGNAL WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM both of which are assigned to the assignee of the present invention and are incorporated by reference. The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95.

In the just mentioned patents a multiple access technique is disclosed in which a large number of mobile station users each having a transceiver communicate through satellite repeaters or terrestrial base stations also known as cell base stations or cell sites using code division multiple access CDMA spread spectrum communication signals. By using CDMA communications the frequency spectrum can be reused multiple times thus permitting an increase in system user capacity. The use of CDMA techniques result in much higher spectral efficiency than can be achieved using other multiple access techniques.

A method for simultaneously demodulating data that has traveled along different propagation paths from one base station and for simultaneously demodulating data redundantly provided from more than one base station is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 109 390 the 390 patent entitled DIVERSITY RECEIVER IN A CDMA CELLULAR COMMUNICATION SYSTEM assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. In the 390 patent the separately demodulated signals are combined to provide an estimate of the transmitted data which has higher reliability than the data demodulated by any one path or from any one base station.

Handoffs can generally be divided into two categories hard handoffs and soft handoffs. In a hard handoff when a mobile station leaves an origination base station and enters a destination base station the mobile station breaks its communication link with the origination base station and thereafter establishes a new communication link with the destination base station. In soft handoff the mobile station completes a communication link with the destination base station prior to breaking its communication link with the origination base station. Thus in soft handoff the mobile station is redundantly in communication with both the origination base station and the destination base station for some period of time.

Soft handoffs are far less likely to drop calls than hard handoffs. In addition when a mobile station travels near the coverage boundary of a base station it may make repeated handoff requests in response to small changes in the environment. This problem referred to as ping ponging is also greatly lessened by soft handoff. The process for performing soft handoff is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 501 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A SOFT HANDOFF IN COMMUNICATIONS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

An improved soft handoff technique is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 267 261 entitled MOBILE STATION ASSISTED SOFT HANDOFF IN A CDMA CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. In the system of the 261 patent the soft handoff process is improved by measuring the strength of pilot signals transmitted by each base station at the mobile station. These pilot strength measurements are of assistance in the soft handoff process by facilitating identification of viable base station handoff candidates.

The base station candidates can be divided into four sets. The first set referred to as the Active Set comprises base stations which are currently in communication with the mobile station. The second set referred to as the Candidate Set comprises base stations whose signals have been determined to be of sufficient strength to be of use to the mobile station but are not currently being used. Base stations are added to the candidate set when their measured pilot energy exceeds a predetermined threshold T. The third set is the set of base stations which are in the vicinity of the mobile station and which are not included in the Active Set or the Candidate Set . And the fourth set is the Remaining Set which consists of all other base stations.

In IS 95 a base station candidate is characterized by the phase offset of the pseudonoise PN sequence of its pilot channel. When the mobile station searches to determine the strength of the pilot signal from a candidate base station it performs a correlation operation wherein the filtered received signal is correlated to a set of PN offset hypotheses. The method and apparatus for performing the correlation operation is described in detail in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 687 694 filed on Jul. 26 1996 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING SEARCH ACQUISITION IN A CDMA COMMUNICATION SYSTEM which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

The propagation delay between the base station and the mobile station is not known. This unknown delay produces and unknown shift in the PN codes. The searching process attempts to determine the unknown shift in the PN codes. To do this the mobile station shifts in time the output of its searcher PN code generators. The range of the search shift is called the search window. The search window is centered about a PN shift hypothesis. A base station transmits to the mobile station a message indicating the PN offsets of base station pilots in its physical proximity. The mobile station will center its search window around the PN offset hypothesis.

The appropriate size of the search window depends on several factors including the priority of the pilot the speed of the searching processors and the anticipated delay spread of the multipath arrivals. The CDMA standards IS 95 define three search window parameters. The searching of pilots in both the active and candidate sets is governed by Search Window A . Neighbor Set pilots are searched over window N and Remaining Set pilots over window R . The searcher window sizes are provided below in Table 1 where a chip is

Window sizing is a trade off between search speed and the probability of missing a strong path lying outside the search window.

The base station transmits to the mobile station a message which specifies the PN hypotheses that the mobile station should search relative to its own PN offset. For example the originating base station may instruct the mobile station to search for a pilot 128 PN chips ahead of its own PN offset. The mobile station in response sets its searcher demodulator 128 chips ahead in the output chip cycle and searches for the pilot using a search window centered about the specified offset. Once the mobile is instructed to a search a PN hypothesis to determine the resources available for performing a handoff it is critical that the PN offset of the destination base station pilot is very close in time to the directed offset. The speed of searching is of critical importance near base station boundaries because delays in completing the necessary searches can result in dropped calls.

In CDMA systems in the United States base station synchronization is achieved by providing each base station with a Global Positioning Satellite GPS receiver. However there are cases where a base station may not be able to receive the GPS signal. For example within subways and tunnels the GPS signal is attenuated to a degree that prohibits their use for timing synchronization of base stations or micro base stations. The present invention provides a method and system for providing timing synchronization in these circumstances where a fraction of the network is capable of receiving a centralized timing signal and achieving timing therefrom and a portion of the base stations are not capable of receiving the centralized timing signal.

The present invention is a novel and improved method and apparatus for time synchronizing a base station which is not capable of receiving a centralized timing signal in a network where some of the base stations are capable of receiving the centralized timing signal. A reference base station has timing synchronization through receipt of a centralized timing signal or other means. In the exemplary embodiment the reference base station synchronizes using a global positioning satellite GPS receiver. Slave base stations lack the capacity to synchronize because for example of an inability to receive the centralized timing signal.

In the present invention a slave base station attains synchronization with a reference base station through messages transmitted from and received by a mobile station in the soft handoff region between the reference base station and the slave base station. First the round trip delay between the mobile station and the reference base station is measured by the reference base station. Next the slave base station searches until it acquires the signal transmitted by the mobile station referred to as the reverse link signal. In response to the acquisition of the reverse link signal the slave base station adjusts its timing so that the mobile station can acquire its signal referred to as a forward link signal. This step may be unnecessary if the timing error in the slave base station is not severe.

Once the mobile station acquires the signal from the slave base station the mobile station measures and reports the difference between the amount of time it takes a signal to travel from the reference base station to the mobile station and the amount of time it takes a signal to travel from the slave base station to the mobile station. The last measurement necessary is a measurement by the slave base station of the time difference between the time the slave base station received the reverse link signal from the mobile station the time the slave base station transmitted a signal to the mobile station.

A series of computations described in detail herein are performed upon the measured time values to determine the time difference between the slave base station and the reference base station. An adjustment of the slave base station timing is performed in accordance with these computations. It should be noted that in the preferred embodiment all of the measurements mentioned are performed during the normal operation of an IS 95 CDMA communication system.

Referring to mobile station is in communication with reference base station while it is roughly within the coverage area delineated by base station coverage boundary . Reference base station is synchronized to the rest of the network by means of a central timing system such as the global positioning system GPS . In contrast slave base station with a coverage area delineated by coverage boundary is not synchronized to the central timing system by independent means such as the GPS available to base station . Base station controller routes calls from the public switched telephone network PSTN to a base station or by means of a T1 line or other means. In addition frequency synchronization is provided to slave base station through T1 lines.

For short time periods frequency synchronization can be provided with an acceptable degree of accuracy through T1 lines by methods well known in the art. However problems are common in schemes which rely upon a T1 line for providing frequency information. These problems result in timing errors which can be corrected by use of the present invention. Because of the relationship between phase and frequency the present invention s intermittent correction of phase will permit the utilization of a less accurate frequency sources when necessary.

Referring to an illustration of the transmission and corresponding time intervals used to synchronize the timing of slave base station with the synchronized timing of reference base station . Signal path illustrates the transmission of a forward link signal from reference base station to mobile station . The time interval over which this transmission occurs is designated as . At mobile station the start of frame transmissions on the reverse link are time aligned with the start of frame arrivals on the forward link. This time alignment is standardized in IS 95 and incorporated in hardware designed in conformance therewith. Therefore it should be understood that methods and apparatus for performing this alignment are well known in the art.

Transmission depicts the transmission of a reverse link frame from mobile station to reference base station . The time for a signal to travel from base station to mobile station is equal to the time for signal to travel from base station to mobile station also . Because base station knows the time at which it transmitted signal and knows the time at which it received signal base station can compute the round trip delay time RTD which is the first value necessary in the computation of the time error T T .

Signal path is the reverse link signal transmission from mobile station traveling along a different propagation path to slave base station . The time which it takes signal to travel from mobile station to slave base station is designated as . The time at which the reverse link signal reaches base station is designated as T. The time it takes a forward link signal traveling from base station to mobile station is also equal to . In addition slave base station can measure the time difference between the time it received the reverse link signal from mobile station and the time it transmitted its forward link signal to mobile station . This time difference is designated as RTD. Knowing these times allows for the computation of the time error T T . The method for computing the time error T T is described below.

Once base station knows the amount of its timing error T T it adjusts its timing so as to synchronize it to the timing of base station . These measurements are subject to error so in a preferred embodiment many of the measurements are redundantly made to assure the accuracy of the timing correction.

The method and apparatus for measuring each of the necessary time values in equation 12 is now described.

Referring to forward link frames of data from reference base station are received at antenna and provided through duplexer to receiver RCVR . Receiver downconverts filters and amplifies the received signal and provides it to searcher and traffic demodulators TRAFFIC DEMODS . Searcher searches for pilot channels in accordance with a neighbor list provided by reference base station . The neighbor list is provided as signaling data on the traffic channel from reference base station . A signal indicating the start of received frames from reference base station is provided to control processor . Control processor generates and provides a time alignment signal to traffic modulator which aligns the start of frames transmitted from mobile station with the start of frames received at mobile station .

Frames of data from the user of mobile station are provided to traffic modulator which in response to the timing signal from control processor time aligns the frames transmitted through transmitter TMTR with the frames received by mobile station from reference base station . The reverse link frames are upconverted filtered and amplified by transmitter then provided through duplexer for transmission through antenna .

The formatted data frame is provided to encoder which encodes the data for error correction and detection. In the exemplary embodiment encoder is a convolutional encoder. The encoded data symbols are provided to interleaver which reorders the symbols in accordance with a predetermined interleaving format. The reordered symbols are provided to Walsh mapper . In the exemplary embodiment Walsh mapper receives eight coded symbols and maps that set of symbols to a 64 chip Walsh sequence. The Walsh symbols are provided to spreading means which spreads the Walsh symbols in accordance with a long spreading code. Long PN code generator generates a pseudonoise PN sequence that spreads the data and differentiates the data from the reverse link transmitted data from other mobile stations in the vicinity.

In the exemplary embodiment the data is transmitted in accordance with a quaternary phase shift keying QPSK modulation format wherein the I and Q channels are spread in accordance with a short PN sequence. The spread data is provided to spreading means and which perform a second spreading operation on the data in accordance with a short PN sequence provided by PN generators PNand PN and respectively. In step slave base station acquires the reverse link signal transmitted by mobile station . Base station controller sends a signal to slave base station indicating the PN code offset which mobile station is using to spread its reverse link signal. In response to this signal from base station controller slave base station performs a search for mobile station centered about the PN offset indicated by the signal from base station controller .

In the exemplary embodiment slave base station bank loads its searchers long code PN generator and its short code PN generators and illustrated in in accordance with a signal from base station controller . The searcher process of slave base station is described in detail further herein.

The signal is received by antenna is downconverted filtered and amplified by a receiver and passed to correlator . Correlator correlates the received signal to the combined long and short PN sequence hypothesis. In the exemplary embodiment the PN sequence hypothesis is generated by multiplying the short PN hypotheses generated by PN generators and by the long PN sequence generated by PN generator by a multiplier and a multiplier respectively. One of the combined PN sequence hypotheses is used to despread the I channel and the other is used to despread the Q channel of the received QPSK signal.

The two PN despread signals are provided to fast Hadamard transform FHT processors and . The design and operation of fast Hadamard transform processors is described in detail in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 173 460 filed Dec. 22 1993 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING A FAST HADAMARD TRANSFORM which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. FHT processors and correlate the despread signals with all possible Walsh symbols to provide a matrix of the resultant amplitudes to energy computation means I Q . Energy computation means computes the energy of the amplitude matrix elements and provides the energy values to max detector which selects the maximum energy correlation. The maximum correlation energies are provided to accumulator which accumulates the energies for a plurality of Walsh symbols and based upon these accumulated energies a decision is made as to whether mobile station can be acquired at that PN offset.

Once mobile station is acquired then in block slave base station adjusts its timing so that mobile station will be able to successfully acquire its forward link transmissions. Slave base station computes an initial timing adjustment by determining the difference between the PN offset at which it acquired the reverse link signal from mobile station and the PN offset which reference base station used for reception of the reverse link signal from mobile station . Using this PN offset difference slave base station adjusts the timing of its pilot signal in such a way that when mobile station searches for its pilot signal it will be within the search window of mobile station .

In searching for the mobile station signal it is necessary for slave base station to have some indication of time. In the preferred embodiment the time error of slave base station is kept at or below 1 ms by means of an alternative synchronization scheme. There are schemes which enable slave base station which is incapable of receiving a GPS signal to keep time to a level of lesser precision. One possible method of obtaining a degree of initial synchronization is to manually set the time of slave base station at certain intervals. A second method is to set the time using a WWV receiver the implementation of which is well known in the art. Unlike the GPS signal the WWV centralized timing signal is transmitted at very low frequency and is able to penetrate into tunnels and subways. However WWV receivers are not capable of providing the degree of time synchronization necessary for providing CDMA communications.

In the exemplary embodiment slave base station adjusts its timing in accordance with the assumption that mobile station is located directly adjacent to slave base station . Thus the initial timing adjustment is made under the hypothesis that there will be no propagation delay between slave base station and mobile station . Thereafter slave base station adjusts its PN sequence generators and forward in time which accounts for greater and greater propagation delay times between slave base station and mobile station . Once mobile station has acquired the pilot channel of slave base station using normal procedures the final adjustment of timing for slave base station can be performed in accordance with the computations described above.

As is known in the art and standardized in IS 95 pilot channels of different base stations are distinguished from one another by the phase of their PN generators. Reference base station instructs mobile station to search for slave base station via the neighbor list. Reference base station indicates by means of the signaling data that the pilot of slave base station can be acquired at a PN phase offset which is described relative to the received PN offset of reference base station . This message is demodulated and decoded by traffic demodulators and provided to searcher . In response searcher performs a search centered on a PN phase offset about the PN phase indicated in the signal from reference base station .

The pilot signal is typically generated by a linear feedback shift register the implementation of which is described in detail in the aforementioned patents. In order to acquire the pilot signal from slave base station mobile station must synchronize to the received signals from slave base station in both phase and in frequency . The object of the searcher operation is to find the phase of the received signal . As described earlier a relatively accurate frequency synchronization can be supplied to slave base station by means of a T1 link from base station controller as is known in the art. The method by which a mobile finds the phase of the received signal is by testing a set of phase hypotheses referred to as a search window and determining if one of the offset hypotheses is correct.

The spread spectrum signal is provided by antenna to receiver . Receiver downconverts filters and amplifies the signal and provides the signal to despreading element . Despreading element multiplies the received signal by the PN code generated by PN generator . Due to the random noise like nature of the PN codes the product of the PN code and the received signal should be essentially zero except at the point of synchronization.

Searcher controller provides an offset hypothesis to PN generator . The offset hypothesis is determined in accordance with a signal transmitted to mobile station by reference base station . In the exemplary embodiment the received signal is modulated by quaternary phase shift keying QPSK so PN generator provides a PN sequence for the I modulation component and a separate sequence for the Q modulation component to despreading element . Despreading element multiplies the PN sequence by its corresponding modulation component and provides the two output component products to coherent accumulators and .

Coherent accumulators and sum the product over the length of the product sequence. Coherent accumulators and are responsive to signals from searcher controller for resetting latching and setting the summation period. The sums of the products are provided from summers and to squaring means . Squaring means squares each of the sums and adds the squares together.

The sum of the squares is provided by squaring means to non coherent combiner . Noncoherent combiner determines an energy value from the output of squaring means . Noncoherent accumulator serves to counteract the effects of a frequency discrepancy between the base station transmit clocks and the mobile station receive clock and aids in the detection statistic in a fading environment. Noncoherent accumulator provides the energy signal to comparison means . Comparison means compares the energy value to predetermined thresholds supplied by searcher controller means . The results of each of the comparisons is then feedback to searcher controller . The results fed back to searcher controller include both the energy of the correlation and the PN offset that resulted in the measurement.

In the present invention searcher controller outputs the PN phase at which it synchronized to base station . This offset is used to compute the time error as described further herein.

In the exemplary embodiment when mobile station acquires slave base station it computes the difference between the time it received the signal from slave base station and the time it received the signal from reference base station . This value is provided to message generator which generates a message indicative of the difference value. The message is transmitted as signaling data on the reverse link to reference base station and slave base station which send the message back to base station controller .

Measurement of Delay Between Transmission of Forward Link Signal from Slave Base Station and Receipt of Reverse Link Signal at Slave Base Station

In step slave base station measures the difference between the time the slave base station received the reverse link signal from mobile station T and the time the slave base station transmitted its forward link signal to mobile station T . Slave base station stores the PN offset at the time it transmits its forward link signal and upon detection of the reverse link signal from mobile station computes the time difference RTD. In the exemplary embodiment this computed time difference is provided by slave base station to base station controller and the computation of the timing adjustment is conducted at base station . It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the present invention is easily extended to the case wherein the computations are performed at the base stations or mobile stations controllers.

Base station controller in response performs the computation described in equation 12 and sends an indication of the necessary timing adjustment to slave base station . Referring back to the timing adjustment signal is received by slave base station at control processor . Control processor generates and provides a control signal to timing adjustment processor . Timing adjustment processor generates a signal which changes the time of timing source by the amount indicated in the signal from base station controller .

The above adjustment procedure is valid for the case in which a mobile station is in soft handoff i.e. when the mobile station has established links with both reference base station and slave base station . Establishing links with both reference and slave base stations allows reference base station to determine the RTDand slave base station to determine the RTD. From the values of RTDand RTD an estimate of the time error T Tcan be made. However in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention slave base station can be synchronized with reference base station as follows when mobile station is not in communication with both reference base station and slave base station .

Assuming that a mobile station is communicating with reference base station the value of RTDcan be determined as described above. In addition mobile station and reference base station are preferably in communication through base station controller . The long PN code with which mobile station spreads its reverse link transmission to the reference base station is known to reference base station . In accordance with the present invention reference base station communicates the long PN code to the slave base station through the base station controller . In addition using the communication path through the base station controller reference base station sends to the slave base station a list of values of RTDeach being associated with one long PN code used by one mobile station to spread the reverse link transmitted by mobile station in communicating with reference base station . It should be understood that each mobile station will be associated with one particular long PN code and RTDvalue. Slave base station then uses the long PN code information to attempt to receive one or more of the reverse link transmissions from the mobile stations . Since the mobile stations are not in soft handoff the signal received by slave base station from mobile stations will be weak. Therefore slave base station will typically need be accumulate a large number of PN chips in order to detect a mobile station that is being serviced by reference base station .

Slave base station searches for mobile stations one at a time based upon the long PN codes that slave base station received from reference base station . Therefore if after a reasonable amount of time slave base station has been unsuccessful in detecting a reverse link transmission from a first mobile station then slave base station begins searching for a reverse link transmission from a second mobile station . In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention reference base station assists in determining which of the mobile stations slave base station is most likely to be able to detect. This is preferably done by determining the distance of the mobile stations from reference base station . In addition information regarding the sector from which each mobile station is transmitting is used. That is if the mobile station is at a relatively great distance from the reference station as indicated for example by information attained while performing a power control algorithm and the mobile station is in a sector that is adjacent to slave base station then there is a greater likelihood that mobile station will be detected by slave base station . It should be clear that by reference base station assisting in determining which mobile stations are most likely to be detected by slave base station the amount of time required for slave base station to detect a mobile station is reduced.

Once slave base station has acquired the transmission from the mobile station over the reverse link slave base station determines the arrival time of the reverse link transmission T and obtains an estimate of the delay from mobile station to slave base station which is denoted by . Slave base station then estimates

The time error is equal to the value of minus . Therefore the time transfer accuracy is directly related to the accuracy of . The estimate typically is accurate to less than the cell radius. That is the difference between the estimate of and the actual value of is less than the cell radius. Thus for a cell with a radius of K miles the timing error due to is about 5 K s.

In spite of the inaccuracy of the estimate of this method of time transfer can provide better timing than can be provided by many other means such as by the backhaul. Therefore estimating in accordance with the present invention as described above can reduce the size of the search windows and thus ensure that the windows are not excessive. The present invention also provides timing that is accurate enough that the received signals from two base stations do not arrive with the same pilot PN phase thus allowing pilots from different origins to be distinguished.

It should also be noted that a complementary procedure may be used if mobile station is communicating with slave base station and not with reference base station . In such a case needs to be estimated instead of .

The above adjustment procedure is valid for the case in which the slave base station system time is relatively close to the reference base station system time. However in some cases the difference between the reference base station system time and the reference base station system time will be so great as to make this procedure invalid. For example when the slave base station first becomes operational the system time must be initialized. Without an external reference the slave base station system time will be an arbitrary value. In another instance when there is no mobile station in the region between the reference base station and the slave base station for a relatively long period of time the slave base station system time may accumulate a significant error i.e. drift from the reference base station system time by a significant amount due to the oscillator which maintains the system time drifting with respect to the reference used by the reference base station. In such cases the following initialization procedure is provided in accordance with the present invention.

When a slave base station is first powers on that slave base station may not have the appropriate timing since no time transfer has yet occurred between the slave base station and any external timing reference such as a GPS signal source or a reference base station . Therefore in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention when power is first applied to slave base station the forward link to be transmitted from that slave base station is not enabled. Initial timing is preferably obtained using the backhaul assuming that no more accurate means is available. The slave base station then has a reasonable estimate as to the proper timing which is sufficient to allow the slave base station to acquire timing via the reverse link method described above in section VIII. Once this has been done slave base station enables the forward link transmission at low power. If a mobile station is in the soft handoff region then the mobile station reports the presence of the new pilot and time can be transferred using the more accurate soft handoff method of the present invention as described above. Once this is done the forward link power of this base station can be increased to the normally operating power appropriate to the slave base station .

