---

title: User interfaces and methods to create electronic documents with forms implementing content input fields
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems, software, computer programs, applications, and user interfaces, and more particularly, to implementing content input fields in forms to create electronic documents, among other things.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08448061&OS=08448061&RS=08448061
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08448061
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems software computer programs applications and user interfaces and more particularly to implementing content input fields in forms to create for example electronic documents.

Improved communications networks and electronic display technologies have contributed to the adoption of electronic documents as a principle vehicle for exchanging and memorializing information. To create a conventional electronic document users typically enter alpha numeric characters as text into text input fields of an electronic form such as an HTML based or XML based form. To create traditional electronic documents with pictures however users are usually required to import an image from a picture file. Browser based applications for example can be used to create web based electronic documents by prompting a user to search for a picture file in some sort of file management system e.g. a hierarchy of folders . Once the user finds the picture file the associated picture will be imported into the web based electronic document. While functional there are certain drawbacks to these techniques for creating electronic documents.

One drawback to importing images into electronic documents is that a user is typically required to perform multiple steps and thus is burdened to know a priori the file name and to expend efforts to search for the picture file. Another drawback is that users typically edit pictures using a separate application in a different window thereby necessitating a transition from the presentation of the electronic form e.g. in one window to a picture editor e.g. in another window . Often times later opened windows that include a picture editor obscure previously opened windows that include the electronic document. While some current applications use pictures to create printed documents such as name tags these applications usually implement static templates that include unmodifiable graphics and text and can require multiple windows to construct a printed document. A static template can typically be described as an electronic file having a preset customized format and structure that is used as a starting point for a particular application so that the unmodifiable graphics and text of the template need not be recreated each time it is used. Further multiple windows can obscure each other especially when presented on relatively small interfaces such as those on mobile phones and personal digital assistants PDAs .

It would be desirable to provide improved techniques systems and devices that minimize one or more of the drawbacks associated with conventional techniques for creating electronic documents.

Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings. Note that most of the reference numerals include one or two left most digits that generally identify the figure that first introduces that reference number.

In view of the foregoing content input field enables a user to readily integrate content into electronic documents thereby enhancing the functionality of electronic document . Namely content input field facilitates the addition of content such as audio graphics animation video still images and or interactivity to supplement text input fields text not shown as well as other alpha numeric character input fields. Further content input field enables a user to preview content and modify the content in the context of electronic form without requiring for example a transition away or interrupting the display thereof to another panel. In addition content input field can be configured to directly present content such as images thereby obviating the necessity to import content from a content file such as a file containing image data. In at least one embodiment a user can edit the content in relation to e.g. directly in or in association with content input field thereby eliminating a requirement to access an editing application for purposes of editing the content.

To illustrate consider the example in in which content input field is configured to accept image data that represents one or more images. Note that the term image can refer in at least one embodiment to a still image or a collection of images that constitute video. Content input field in this example is an image data input field for electronic form and is configured to accept imagery as content. As such content input field in whole or in part an be configured to present an image in real time or substantially in real time for an interface . Next consider that electronic form is configured to accept user input via user input interface . In one embodiment selection of content input field activates an image capture unit thereby facilitating entry of image data into content input field . In this example the image data represents a scene including a mountain range as a subject . Once selected content input field can sample images in a continual fashion until for example user input interface initiates the capture of at least a portion of subject . As shown portion represents a captured image within a boundary . Thus content input field and electronic form provide for a preview of electronic document prior to finalization. In one embodiment content input field and electronic form can be rendered in a single panel.

Further to the example shown consider that a user wishes to modify the content data in association with content input field by for example recapturing another portion of subject . The modified image can be displayed simultaneous or substantially simultaneous with electronic form . To modify the content data i.e. image data user input interface can be configured to dispense with image data for portion and to resample portions of subject in real time. In one embodiment the modified image for a recaptured portion is formed by translating either one or more images relative to boundary or vise versa. For instance a user can move image capture unit relative to a fixed position in space to translate the images relative to boundary . In one embodiment the user can translate portions of subject to include a characteristic of a subject. For example a user can translate from the image associated with portion to the image associated with portion to include a tree as a characteristic. In an alternative embodiment boundary can demarcate a time interval during which a portion of audio or a sound can be captured if the content includes audio.

In one embodiment interface is configured to accept user inputs via user input interface to edit the content thereby forming edited content. In a specific embodiment in situ editor can be configured to edit content data associated with content input field . Continuing with the previous example in situ editor can be implemented to perform image related edits such as cropping an image performing an automatic color balance or brightness balance performing gamma corrections performing red eye removal and the like. Further in situ editor can be configured to edit a captured image as well as recaptured images within content input field to generate an edited image in the context of electronic form . In various embodiments in situ editor can be configured to edit captured images in portions or within content input field without transitioning from electronic form to implement an editor application such as a stand alone photo or video editing application. In one embodiment electronic form can present editor inputs to select an image related edit operation in the context of the form. In the example shown editor inputs can be presented as part of a panel that includes electronic form . Once a captured image or recaptured image has been modified and or edited it can be finalized to form electronic document . For example portion can be integrated into form to create electronic document with image .

As used herein the term content input field refers generally at least in one embodiment to a data field that accepts content in real time or substantially in real time in association with an electronic form whereby the content associated with the content input field can be integrated with an electronic form to create an electronic document. As used herein the term content at least in one embodiment refers to information and or material e.g. multi media information presented within an interface in relation to for example a web site or a data entry application such as a software product for creating electronic documents. Content can also include the audio and or visual presentation of text such as an electronic document e.g. a document in Portable Document Format PDF as well as audio images audio video media such as Flash presentations text and the like. As used herein the term modified content refers generally at least in one embodiment to content that has been either recaptured after a previous capture or edited or both. As used herein the term sampling refers generally at least in one embodiment to receiving digitized representations of content in real time such as visual imagery generated by an image capture unit or device for purposes of capturing content e.g. as video or a still image . As used herein the term capture refers generally at least in one embodiment to the storage and or recordation of data representing images sound or the like. For example a captured image can be still image e.g. a freeze frame representing a portion of a subject. As another example a captured video or audio can be a portion of video or audio for a finite duration of time.

As used herein the term subject can refer to at least in one embodiment a person or thing photographed as well as a sound voice or music recorded. As used herein the term panel at least in one embodiment can refer to displays palettes tabs windows screens portions of an interface and the like. As used herein the term electronic form can refer at least in one embodiment to an interactive form having data input fields including a content input field. In one embodiment each of the data input fields is implemented in single panel. In other embodiments the data input fields for the electronic form can be distributed over multiple panels. As used herein the term electronic document can refer at least in one embodiment to any data files e.g. other than computer programs or system files that are intended to be used in their electronic form without necessarily being printed whereby computer networks and electronic display technologies can help facilitate their use and distribution. Note that an electronic document can itself be defined as content at least in one embodiment. As such the electronic document can enable users to experience rich media content that is created with a content input field. As used herein the term integrating as it relates to finalizing electronic documents can refer at least in one embodiment to generating an association between content and an electronic form thereby combining the two for producing an electronic document. In some cases the content is affixed as part of the electronic form whereas in other cases the content can be separable from the electronic document. When affixed the content can be stored within a common data file as the electronic form whereas separable content can be stored as a separate content file.

In at least one embodiment hand held device is a mobile phone having relatively limited resources such as a minimal interface and user input interface . Minimal interface is typically smaller than displays used in laptop and desktop computing applications. Controller can be configured to generate content input field within a single panel thereby obviating instances where multiple panels might obscure either the electronic form or the content or both. User input interface is usually limited to directional keys e.g. up down left and or right such as user inputs for navigating minimal interface . Controller can also be configured to implement directional keys to perform one or more operations with respect to the content in the context of interface . For example a user can use directional keys to navigate electronic form to select content input field which in turn causes content to be presented in association with content input field . For instance selection of content input field can initiate streaming of digitized imagery from image capture unit to content input field . Directional keys or other inputs in user input interface can be implemented to capture recapture accept reject modify and or edit the content. In various embodiments controller can be implemented in either hardware or software or a combination thereof.

In a specific embodiment controller can include a form renderer configured to generate form layer and a content renderer configured to present content in association with content input field . In the example shown in content renderer can generate image layer for presenting an image as content. In other embodiments content renderer can generate an audio layer to associate a sound voice and or audio data to content input field . Controller can be used to capture a portion of a sound voice and or audio responsive for example to a user input.

Optionally controller can include either an in situ editor or a validator or both. Further controller can optionally include interpreter . In situ editor can be configured to edit the data representing captured content. In one embodiment in situ editor can be configured to present an editor layer as a content editor for editing the content. As such editor layer is configured to accept user input to edit the content in situ to form edited content. For example in situ editor facilitates the presentation of the edited content with respect to content input field simultaneous to or substantially simultaneous to the presentation of form layer . In some cases in situ editor can for example crop remove red eye modify the contrast and color and or other enhance an image. In other cases in situ editor can for example cut copy delete splice and mix sounds together as well as modify the speed or pitch of a captured audio as well as amplify normalize or equalize the audio.

Validator can be configured to analyze the content to determine whether any captured content associated with content input field matches or likely matches a predetermined metric. In one embodiment content input field can relate via an association to a characteristic of the content sought to be captured. If there is a match then validator is configured to present an indication not shown that content input field includes characteristic . For example validator can operate to determine whether portion includes or likely includes a tree as a characteristic of the subject. Thus validator can validate whether image data representing the image in portion meet a first threshold indicative that the content in relation with content input field includes characteristic . The first threshold for example can represent an amount of green colored pixels that are associated with image data in content input field .

Interpreter can be configured to interpret images and or sounds or portions there to determine information. In a specific embodiment interpreter is configured to test whether image data representing the image presented in content input field meet a second threshold to determine whether the image data complies with one or more requirements. For example the second threshold can represent a confidence level that the shape of tree matches at least one of a number of predetermined shapes for trees. If there is a match there can be a relatively high likelihood that tree can be characterized as being a tree. In a specific embodiment interpreter can perform optical character recognition processes to translate optically scanned bitmaps of text characters into character codes such as ASCII. Thus interpreter can convert portions of an image in content input field to determine one or more alpha numeric characters. In another embodiment interpreter can perform speech recognition to translate audio into alpha numeric characters. In various embodiments interpreter can interpret or convert content presented in association with content input field into another form for implementation as an electronic document.

Consider that electronic form can be used to memorialize damage to an automobile as well as related information. For example input field text input field text input field and text input field can be configured to respectively accept data representing a driver name an address a license number and a time of accident. A user of electronic form can select to sample an image of an automobile as a subject. While viewing automobile in the context of image input field the user can capture and recapture image data to optimally depict for example the extent of damage associated with automobile . Optionally content input field can be configured to accept any content as input such as a sound. As such when the user selects to accept content input field a sound can be captured. For example the user can record the driver s verbal account of the accident. In some cases once the user is satisfied electronic form can be used to produce an electronic document. In one embodiment producing an electronic document includes in whole or in part saving data for electronic form in association with other data that represents the captured image of automobile and or the captured sound corresponding to content input field .

A controller which is not shown can generate electronic form and image input field . In one embodiment the controller can also be configured to test whether image data representing the image in image input field meets a threshold indicative that the image data complies with one or more requirements. As used herein the term requirement can refer to at least in one embodiment a threshold against which an interpreter analyzes content to interpret whether the content includes an identifiable characteristic. An example of such a requirement is that the captured license plate number in image input field must match a predetermined license plate number for the returned automobile. Thus the controller can be configured to identify the automobile. In a specific embodiment an interpreter not shown can perform optical character recognition processes to determine a string of characters such as SAMPLE and then determine whether SAMPLE has access to other information stored in relation to that license plate number. In this case an interpreter can determine that each of the letters meet a requirement or threshold for identifying each of the letters as S A M P L and E. A validator in turn can determine whether the license plate number e.g. SAMPLE is a characteristic of image input field for which the validator can operate to validate.

Further to the preceding example consider that each of image input fields and is associated with at least one characteristic such as the type of fender for an automobile. Specifically image input field can be associated with a front passenger side fender image input field can be associated with a front driver side fender image input field can be associated with a rear passenger side fender and image input field can be associated with a rear driver side fender. Next consider that the interpreter is configured to interpret subjects presented in image input fields and as one of a number of different fender types. Further consider that a validator not shown can validate whether an interpreted fender type matches or likely matches the characteristic associated with a particular image input field.

In operation a user might capture an image in image input field with the interpreter subsequently interpreting the image as including front passenger side fender . Then the validator can validate whether the captured image matches the characteristic corresponding to the image input field and in response to a positive match the validator can generate a match indication to signify that the captured image is in the correct image input field. Similarly the interpreter can interpret the images in image input field and image input field as including front driver side fender and rear passenger side fender respectively. The validator then can generate match indications and to indicate positive matches to the corresponding characteristics. But note that if the user captures front passenger side fender in image input field which is associated with rear driver side fenders then the validator can generate a no match indication that signifies that there is mismatch to the corresponding characteristic. The user then can recapture the correct subject for image input field . Thereafter an electronic document can be finalized.

In some examples logic module can be configured to control panel generator to form electronic forms and or content input fields. Rendering engine can be configured to operate as a layout engine for web pages for example to manipulate both content e.g. as expressed in or including HTML XML image files etc. and formatting information e.g. as expressed in or including CSS XSL etc. for rendering the data or information as one or more panels on interface . Interface module can exchange panel presentation data including content data image data audio data as well as other data between application and another application e.g. a host client web services based distributed i.e. enterprise application programming interface API operating system program procedure or others that can use data and information generated from panel generator to render presented panels on a display screen. In other examples the above described techniques and elements can be varied in design implementation and function and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In one embodiment logic module can include a form renderer module form rend an editor module Editor a validator module validator and a content renderer module content rend . Renderer module is configured to provide data for example to panel generator for generating an electronic form. The data can include form layer data for generating form layer . Editor module is configured to manage the editing of content data. Validator module is configured to validate whether content includes a characteristic associated with a content input field. Content renderer module is configured to generate a content layer such as an image layer . Thus renderer module can provide image layer data to generate in whole or in part an image layer for presenting content in real time with respect to the content input field.

In some examples logic module and panel generator can be implemented as part of application which can be implemented separately from other functional components or modules such as interface module display module rendering module and repository . Data bus can be implemented to communicate data over a given port between application and interface module display module rendering module and repository . In other words application can be implemented as a standalone application or as a component i.e. module of another application. Data or information e.g. content characteristics captured content recaptured content edited content text data and the like associated with a panel can be stored in repository which can be implemented using a database data store data warehouse or any other type of data repository or structure. In other examples more fewer or different modules can be used to implement the described techniques for panel presentation and are not limited to those provided.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations in which processor executes one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions can be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation. In the example shown system memory includes modules of executable instructions for implementing an operation system O S a camera utility module and an application for creating electronic documents. Camera utility module includes instructions for integrating the functionality of an image capture unit or device e.g. such as an I O device with an electronic form and its content input field. Camera utility module can monitor selection of a content input field and can activate for example a camera to initiate streaming of image data into the content input field. Application includes additional instructions in the following modules form renderer content renderer editor and or validator . In one embodiment system memory can be configured to stored data for form layer and or image layer for translation with respect to each other.

The term computer readable medium refers at least in one embodiment to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions can be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network can perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system can transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code can be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In one embodiment system is implemented as a hand held device such as a mobile phone . But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desk top computer or any other computing device.

In some examples one or more panels for creating electronic documents can be presented on interface which can be an interface for an application such as a web browsing program Internet content portal client or desktop application for any purpose. Panels can be used to provide additional or supplemental information that can be contextually relevant to another panel presented in interface . Computer notebook computer notebook or laptop smart phone personal digital assistant PDA server and administrator computer can provide content data for rendering content as well as other data which can be implemented to generate for example an electronic form and content input field in interface . In some cases an operating system installed on computer can communicate i.e. via an application programming interface API content data and or other electronic form related data to another application installed on computer to render i.e. interpreting data and information to draw or display the content in an interface one or more panels presented in interface . In some examples different types of panels can be rendered in interface . In one embodiment interface can include any number and or any type of display environments such as CRT and LCD displays. Note that the above described system and elements can be varied and are not limited to the descriptions or examples provided.

In at least some of the embodiments of the invention the structures and or functions of any of the above described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown in as well as their functionality can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively the elements and their functionality can be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any. As software the above described described techniques can be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Flex Fireworks Java Javascript AJAX COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. In fact this description should not be read to limit any feature or aspect of the present invention to any embodiment rather features and aspects of one embodiment can readily be interchanged with other embodiments.

Thus the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed many alternatives modifications equivalents and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description. Thus the various embodiments can be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims. Further the embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Notably not every benefit described herein need be realized by each embodiment of the present invention rather any specific embodiment can provide one or more of the advantages discussed above. In the claims elements and or operations do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.

