---

title: Method of making arrays of thin sheet microdischarge devices
abstract: The cavity  defines an empty volume formed in the insulator  has its walls defined by the insulator  and may extend through either (or both) the first electrode  or the second electrode , in which case the first electrode and/or second electrode also define the walls of the cavity . The cavity  is preferably cylindrical and has a diameter of 0.1 μm-1 mm. More preferably, the diameter ranges from 0.1 μm-500 μm, 1 μm-100 μm, or 100 μm-500 μm. The cavity  will be filled with a gas that contacts the cavity walls, fills the entire cavity  and is selected for its breakdown voltage or light emission properties at breakdown. Light is produced when the voltage difference between the first electrode  and the second electrode  creates an electric field sufficiently large to electrically break down the gas (nominally about 10V-cm). This light escapes from the microcavity  through at least one end of the cavity 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08221179&OS=08221179&RS=08221179
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08221179
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 070 100 filed Mar. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 638 937 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 782 164 filed Feb. 19 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 867 548 issued Mar. 15 2005 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 040 300 filed Oct. 26 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 695 664 issued Feb. 24 2004 all of which are hereby incorporated in entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract Number F49620 98 1 0030 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to microdischarge devices and in particular new structures for light emitting devices and low cost methods of producing ultraviolet or visible light from thin sheets.

It has long been known that electrical discharges are efficient sources of light and today gas discharge lamps including fluorescent sources and metal halide sodium or mercury arc lamps account for most of the world s light generating capacity several billion watts on a continuous basis . Most of these devices are unfortunately bulky and frequently have fragile quartz or glass envelopes and require expensive mounting fixtures. In addition to general lighting discharges produce ultraviolet and visible light for other purposes such as germicidal applications disinfecting surfaces and tissue cleaning electronic and optical surfaces in manufacturing and activating light sensitive molecules for medical treatments and diagnostics.

Although microdischarges were demonstrated by A. D. White in 1959 only recently were microdischarge devices fabricated in silicon by techniques developed in the integrated circuit industry. As described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 016 027 the first microdischarge devices made in silicon had a cylindrical microcavity that served as the cathode of the device. The semiconductor cathode was affixed to a copper heat sink with conductive epoxy. The anode for the microdischarge device was typically a metal film such as Ni cr. A thin dielectric layer deposited onto the silicon electrically insulates the cathode from the anode. When the microcavity is filled with the desired gas and the appropriate voltage imposed between the anode and cathode a discharge is ignited in the microcavity.

Microdischarges have several distinct advantages over conventional discharges. Since the diameter of single cylindrical microdischarge devices for example is typically less than 400 500 m each device offers the spatial resolution that is desirable for a pixel in a display. Also the small physical dimensions of microdischarges allows them to operate at pressures much higher than those accessible to conventional macroscopic discharges. When the diameter of a cylindrical microdischarge device is for example on the order of 200 300 m or less the device will operate at pressures as high as atmospheric pressure and beyond. In contrast standard fluorescent lamps for example operate at pressures typically less than 1 of atmospheric pressure.

Despite their applications in several areas including optoelectronics and sensors silicon microdischarge devices have several drawbacks. For example the annular metal anodes used in early microdischarge devices have short lifetimes because of sputtering. After operating for as little as several hours damage to the anode is visible and devices frequently fail after only tens of hours of operation. Optical emission from metal atoms evaporated from the anode is easily detected prior to failure of the device. One solution is to replace the metals tested to date with a more robust material such as polycrystalline silicon or tungsten. However these materials increase the fabrication cost and difficulty do not yield significantly increased output power and may not yield significantly improved device lifetime.

Furthermore silicon is brittle comparatively high in cost and single wafers are limited in size 12 in diameter currently . In addition silicon fabrication techniques although well established are labor and time intensive and therefore not suitable for low cost applications. Therefore a number of potential applications of microdischarge devices not presently accessible with silicon or other semiconductor technology could be pursued if low cost flexible microdischarge arrays requiring voltages no higher than that available in common wall sockets were available.

Two other drawbacks of previous microdischarge devices and arrays concern the inefficiency of extracting optical power from deep cylindrical cavities and the difficulty in scaling the size of arrays. If the cylindrical cathode for a microdischarge is too deep it will be difficult for photons produced below the surface of the cathode to escape. Another problem arises in fabricating arrays of microdischarge devices is that devices at the perimeter of the array ignite preferentially and arrays as small as 10 10 are difficult to ignite at all.

The invention provides methods of making arrays of thin sheet microdischarge devices. In a preferred method of fabricating an array of microdischarge devices a multi layer dielectric layer thin sheet is position with respect to a first thin electrode. A second electrode thin sheet is joined on the dielectric layer sheet. An array of microcavities is provided through at least a portion of the dielectric layer sheet. The method can produce thin large arrays inexpensively. In preferred embodiments each of the multi layer dielectric layer thin sheet the first thin electrode and the second electrode thin sheet have a thickness of less than less than 100 m. In preferred embodiments the multi layer dielectric is formed of polymer and in other embodiments from oxides and or nitrides. In a particular preferred embodiment the multilayer dielectric is formed from oxide and nitride films.

The invention provides methods of making arrays of thin sheet microdischarge devices. In a preferred method of fabricating an array of microdischarge devices a multi layer dielectric layer thin sheet is position with respect to a first thin electrode. A second electrode thin sheet is joined on the dielectric layer sheet. An array of microcavities is provided through at least a portion of the dielectric layer sheet. The method can produce thin large arrays inexpensively. In preferred embodiments each of the multi layer dielectric layer thin sheet the first thin electrode and the second electrode thin sheet have a thickness of less than less than 100 m. In preferred embodiments the multi layer dielectric is formed of polymer and in other embodiments from oxides and or nitrides. In a particular preferred embodiment the multilayer dielectric is formed from oxide and nitride films.

The present invention provides microdischarge devices and arrays of microdischarge devices that are inexpensive to manufacture and have electrical and optical characteristics that are superior to previous microdischarge devices. These microdischarge devices and arrays may operate at atmospheric pressure and at voltages of 120V or less and preferably at voltages of not greater than 100V. Either direct current DC or alternating current AC voltages may be applied to the electrodes. The microdischarge devices and arrays of microdischarge devices may also be flexible.

An embodiment of a microdischarge device not drawn to scale is shown in . The microdischarge device includes a first electrode a second electrode and a dielectric layer also called an insulating layer or an insulator disposed between the first electrode and second electrode . A cavity is formed in the insulator and may be additionally formed in either or both of the first electrode and the second electrode such that the openings or holes in each of the first electrode insulator and second electrode are aligned with each other. The cavity preferably has a substantially cylindrical shape to more easily couple to optical fiber for example and is formed in a direction transverse to the planes containing the electrodes and and insulator . The first electrode and second electrode are both electrically and thermally conductive and a potential difference across the insulator is established by a voltage source connected between the first electrode and the second electrode . The potential difference creates a discharge in the cavity when a gas is present. The resulting light has emission spectra that are characteristic of the gas selected. This light is subsequently emitted from at least one end of the cavity .

The first electrode and second electrode preferably serve to establish the potential difference across the insulator and thereby energize the microdischarge device . Thus the first electrode and second electrode are fabricated from materials having good electrical and thermal conductivity. The first electrode and second electrode may be planar and may be fabricated from thin layers of conductive material preferably having a thickness of less than 100 m more preferably thicknesses from about 10 10 m and from 50 5 m. Common metals that may be used to form the electrodes include copper aluminum gold silver nickel and zinc and alloys thereof. Other conductors include polymers containing carbon black and other conducting polymer materials or highly doped crystalline polycrystalline or amorphous semiconductor films. Alternatively rather than the electrodes being formed from an optically opaque material at least one of the electrodes may be fabricated from a solid layer of optically transmissive material that does not significantly absorb light at the wavelength of the discharge such as indium tin oxide ITO . Optically transmissive material transmits preferably at least 50 of the light impinging substantially normal to the surface of the material at wavelength emitted by the discharge. More preferably the optically transmissive material transmits at least 60 70 80 90 or even 95 of the light impinging substantially normal to the surface of the material at a wavelength emitted by the discharge. The first electrode and second conducting electrode preferably form a cathode and an anode.

At least one of the electrodes is preferably deposited plated or otherwise disposed onto the dielectric layer to establish a film of conducting material around the rim of the cavity in the dielectric layer. Furthermore although not shown at least one of the electrodes may be fabricated from multiple layers at least one of which preferably the layer closest to the discharge is electrically conducting. The other layers may serve as a mirror to reflect light of undesired wavelengths back into the microdischarge.

The first electrode may additionally act as a support for the microdischarge device . One example of such a structure would be using Kapton onto which a thin conducting film is deposited or a foil is in contact.

The second electrode is preferably thinner than the first electrode . The insulator is formed of a material having a resistivity of at least 0.1 cm preferably from 0.5 cm 100 cm or from 1.0 cm 10.0 cm.

The insulator acts as a dielectric layer to electrically isolate the first electrode and second electrode of the microdischarge device . Preferably the insulator has excellent thermostability and high dielectric strength e.g. T 200 C. and at least 10V cm respectively. More preferable ranges for the thermostability include 400 C. T 250 C. and 350 C. T 275 C. and for the dielectric strength from 5 10V cm 5 10V cm or 10V cm 5 10V cm.

The insulator may be a polymer such as polyimide which has exceptional thermostability and dielectric strength. For example the breakdown voltage for a polyimide film about 5 m thick is approximately 1.2 kV giving a dielectric strength in excess of 10V cm. Other dielectrics resins and polymers for example oxide and nitride films such as metal oxides SiO2 SiNor KAPTON may be used as long as the material retains its insulation properties at the material thickness required for adequate dielectric strength. Furthermore multiple films of different materials having different dielectric constants may be used to fabricate the insulator in order to improve both individual device and array performance. Tests have shown that a multiple layer dielectric containing for example 0.5 m SiN 0.5 m SiO and several microns of polyimide not only improves the voltage current characteristics of an individual microdischarge device but also makes it possible to realize stable operation of large arrays for example 30 30 of devices. If on the other hand the insulator is a single film of polyimide for example it is difficult to operate arrays larger than approximately 5 5.

The insulator in addition to the first electrode and second electrode may also be thin preferably less than 100 m. Preferred thickness ranges for the insulator may be from 10 100 m or 100 10 m. The voltage applied between the first electrode and second electrode to create the discharge is directly related to the thickness of the dielectric layer as well as the particular gas and gas pressure in the cavity. Scaling the thickness of the insulator thus changes the magnitude of the operating voltage of the microdischarge device . Some applications may additionally require fabrication of the first electrode insulator and second electrode using materials that have appropriate conductive dielectric properties at the desired device thicknesses.

The cavity formed in the insulator may extend through either or both the first electrode or the second electrode . The cavity is preferably cylindrical and has a diameter of 0.1 m 1 mm. More preferably the diameter ranges from 0.1 m 500 m 1 m 100 m or 100 m 500 m. The cavity will be filled with a gas selected for its breakdown voltage or light emission properties at breakdown. Light is produced when the voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode creates an electric field sufficiently large to electrically break down the gas nominally about 10V cm . This light escapes from the microcavity through at least one end of the cavity .

The gas that fills the cavity may be selected for its light emission properties. The term gas herein refers to acceptable single gases gas mixtures and vapors. Examples of common gases that work well alone are the rare gases He Ne Ar Xe and Kr N and air. A wide variety of gas mixtures also produce intense emission from atomic or molecular species. An example of the former is Ar Hg vapor and the latter includes rare gas halogen donor gas mixtures such as one or more rare gases mixed with F NF XeF NF HCI Cl I HI or other halogen bearing molecules . Another example is the XeO xenon oxide excimer that is produced in mixtures of Xe and O NO or NOgases. Such gases however need not be present in the channel breakdown may occur when air is present.

The microdischarge device may be less than 50 m thick approximately two one thousandths of an inch thus giving rise to a thinner device than is typical of conventional microdischarge devices. One feature of arrays of such devices is that the finished array may be flexible and light. Thus these arrays are able to conform to various shapes and can if desired be rolled into a tube. This feature enhances the portability and utility of microdischarge arrays.

The possible radius of curvature of the microdischarge device or array of devices may be much smaller than that of conventional brittle silicon based microdischarge devices. For comparison the radius of curvature of a silicon wafer is several meters while that of an adult human arm is approximately five cm. The realizable radius of curvature of the microdischarge device is preferably from several meters to less than a single mm. For flexible microdischarge devices the realizable radius of curvature may be substantially less preferably between 1 cm and 1 m or 10 cm and 100 cm. Thus a feasible radius of curvature of an array of microdischarge devices may be that of human limbs or smaller. In a group of these flexible discharge devices either a planar array or stack when first bent by less than the maximum possible radius of curvature a substantial percentage of the discharge devices should continue to operate. Preferably the device failure rate should not significantly change when bending the array as long as the operating conditions remain the same. This is not to say that problems such as fractures will not appear in the devices but only that the operating characteristics e.g. voltage current emission intensity should not decrease beyond acceptable levels. For the purposes of the specification and claims herein the radius of curvature is defined as the minimum radius of curvature to which the device is able to be bent before the device failure rate rises beyond acceptable levels preferably above 50 . Alternatively the radius of curvature may be defined as the minimum radius of curvature to which the device is able to be bent before a specific percentage of the devices in an array fail. Preferably fewer than 50 of the devices fail to insure adequate operation when used during therapeutic treatment for example more preferably fewer than 20 10 5 2 or even 1 fail.

One method of fabrication of the microdischarge device is to mechanically assemble the various layers that comprise the microdischarge device . Thus assembly begins with individually positioning the first electrode insulator and second electrode on each other and then forming the cavity in the assembled layers by any of several processes such as mechanical or ultrasonic drilling optical drilling preferably by a pulsed laser dry etching or wet chemically etching. These techniques are all well developed in the semiconductor industry. In an alternate method of fabrication holes may be formed in the insulator and either or both of the first electrode and second electrode . After forming the hole s the first electrode insulator and second electrode may be assembled such that the insulator is sandwiched by the first electrode and second electrode . Preferably the layers are positioned such that the holes in the layers coincide to form the cavity .

In another method of fabrication the first electrode may be positioned and the insulator formed on the first electrode . The insulator may be fabricated by spin coating or otherwise depositing a film on the first electrode . The second electrode is subsequently deposited on the insulator . The cavity is then preferably formed through the insulator and at least one of two electrodes and .

Alternatively the first electrode may preferably be deposited onto an insulating substrate not shown which provides a supporting surface for first electrode . The insulator and second electrode may next be fabricated as above i.e. spin coating and subsequent deposition and then the cavity formed. In this case the first electrode may either be temporarily attached to the insulating substrate and the insulating substrate removed after assembling the layers or the first electrode may be permanently attached to the insulating substrate. In either case the cavity may be formed through the insulating substrate if present the first electrode and the insulator after the layers are assembled. Similarly the cavity may be formed through the second electrode and the insulator after the layers are assembled whether or not the insulating substrate is present.

In an embodiment in which the insulating substrate permanently covers the cavity the insulating substrate may preferably comprise an optically transmissive material. However for embodiments in which the insulating substrate is temporarily attached to the first electrode or in which the cavity is formed through the insulating substrate the insulating substrate may comprise any suitable insulating material. An example of such an insulating substrate may be poly pyromellitimido 1 1 4 4 diphenylene ether also known as PMDA ODA poly pyromellitimido oxydianiline or KAPTON.

Other methods for forming the first electrode on the insulating substrate include evaporation growth sputtering deposition or attaching with conductive paste. Similar methods may be used for forming the insulator on the first electrode and for forming the second electrode on the insulator . Examples of methods for forming the cavity include mechanical drilling optical drilling preferably by a pulsed laser and chemically etching the different layers.

After the second electrode insulator and first electrode have been assembled and the cavity formed the cavity may then be filled with a specified amount or pressure of a selected gas. Light produced by a discharge in the gas is emitted from the opening of the cavity . Additionally the cavity may be sealed while containing the desired gas at the proper pressure by laminating or bonding a plastic sheet glass quartz or mica not shown on to both sides of the microdischarge array assembly thereby sealing the microdischarge device while still allowing the generated light to pass through the sealing material. Thus an optically transmissive material may be used to seal the cavity of the microdischarge device . Preferably the sealing material may be flexible in addition to being optically transmissive.

Sealing of the microdischarge cavity while containing the desired gas at the proper pressure may be performed in a number of ways other. One method is to hard seal the array of microdischarge electrodes and insulator to a quartz window having a conducting film such as ITO or a fine metal grid on one side. The bonding process takes place with the conductor facing the electrode and bonding occurs along the entire perimeter of the electrode and quartz. When completed this structure is robust and compact requiring only electrical connections to an appropriate power supply. Another approach using flexible optically transmissive material is to laminate an array of electrode insulator electrode or screen devices. By laminating a plastic sheet on both sides of the microdischarge array assembly light generated within the array will be transmitted by the packaging if the laminating sheet material is chosen properly. A phosphor electroluminescent material may also be included on the screen before sealing.

To operate the microdischarge device a voltage is applied between the first electrode and second electrode which produce a discharge in the gas in the cavity . The resulting light produces emission spectra that are characteristic of the gas or gas mixture selected. This light is subsequently emitted from at least one end of the cavity .

One example of such a microdischarge device has a 25 m thick copper foil as the first electrode a polyimide film 5 8 m thick as the insulator and a 2000 thick Ni film as a second electrode . shows the voltage current V I characteristics for this Ni polyimide Cu microdischarge device. The polymer film for the insulator was formed by spin coating a solution of 20 wt of poly trimetallic anhydride chloride alt benzidine in a 1 methyl 2 pyrolidinone xylene solution on the copper foil. Residual solvent was evaporated by a hot plate and a vacuum drying process at 200 C. The Ni second electrode was next evaporated onto the polymer giving a total device thickness of about 30 m. Microdischarge cavities having a diameter of typically 150 m were then produced either by mechanically drilling or using a pulsed Ti AlOlaser to bore through the second electrode insulator and first electrode . Once fabricated the microdischarge device was evacuated to about 10Torr by a turbomolecular pump. The polymer was subsequently vacuum baked to minimize possible outgassing by the polymer and then backfilled with the desired gas Ne. By observing the emission spectrum of a rare gas produced by the microdischarge device freedom from or the presence of hydrocarbon impurities was determined.

The positive differential resistance of tested microdischarge devices was 30 k 120 k depending on the gas pressure in the cavity 100 Torr to 700 Torr respectively . These differential resistances are comparable to conventional planar silicon microdischarge devices as shown in . However unlike the conventional planar silicon microdischarge devices which typically work at gas pressures considerably less than one atmosphere and require at least 200 V to operate the microdischarge device operates both at gas pressures approaching one atmosphere and voltages at or below 120 V. Furthermore although the data of were obtained for a polyimide thickness of about 5 m the operating voltages vary with the thickness of the polyimide layer in a roughly proportional manner. For example tested microdischarge devices with polyimide layer thicknesses of about 7 m and 10 m exhibit operating voltages of about 180 V and 250 V respectively and thus thinner polyimide films i.e. 

The device of operates in a manner similar to that of conventional metal SiO silicon devices. illustrates a comparison of a portion of the ultraviolet emission spectrum 320 370 nm produced from neon gas for the above Ni polyimide Cu foil device with that of a conventional Ni SiO 20 m thick silicon microdischarge device. The conventional microdischarge device had an overall thickness of 57 m and a cavity diameter of 180 m both somewhat greater than the thickness 30 m and diameter 150 m of the Ni polyimide Cu microdischarge device. The solid dots denote emission lines produced by the singly charged neon ion i.e. Ne . Note that the two spectra are virtually identical showing strong emission from more than 20 Ne ion transitions. The emission intensity of several of the Ne ion transitions in the Ni polyimide Cu device is weaker than the same transitions in the conventional microdischarge device owing to the smaller depth of the cathode. Nevertheless the strength of the ion emission lines from the metal polymer device show that the electron energy distribution has a component that is hotter higher energy than that for a conventional positive column discharge.

The microdischarge devices are also remarkably robust. The emission intensity as a function of time was measured for a large number of microdischarge devices. shows lifetime data obtained for a single Ni polyimide Cu microdischarge device obtained over a period of 50 hours. This device had a 150 m diameter cavity and was filled with Ne at a pressure of 300 Torr. The V I characteristics of the microdischarge device remained stable over the entire 50 hours. Every ten hours the Ne gas was refreshed due to a decline in intensity caused by the outgassing of the polymer and a small background leak in the vacuum system. As shown in after each refill of Ne gas the emission intensity of the microdischarge device returned to approximately the initial value indicating that no device degradation had occurred. Neither the outgassing nor the background leak is a limitation of the device itself and obtaining lifetimes that exceed several thousand hours is expected to be quite feasible.

For example a 3 3 array of Ni polyimide Cu microdischarge devices operating in 400 Torr of Ne at 4.5 mA and 165 V demonstrated intense emissions that could readily be seen across a well lit room. However if one wishes to fabricate large arrays or a collection of microdischarge devices ohmic losses become a problem. Large arrays often do not ignite uniformly rather devices at the perimeter of the array ignite preferentially because of the non uniformity in the applied voltage difference across different cavities in the array. Large arrays contain at least 10 individual devices preferably at least 20 individual devices and more preferably at least 50 or 100 individual devices.

To overcome this problem another embodiment shown in divides the overall array into sub arrays containing individual devices and delivers power separately to the sub arrays . The sub arrays may be independently excited or otherwise excited such that the devices no longer ignite preferentially. For example the sub arrays may have at most one of the two electrodes in common or may be excited in parallel. Alternatively the entire array may have multiple conductive leads from the voltage source and provided to selected areas of the array or may have continuous strips of the conductive leads crossing the array in a grid like manner. Further each device may be individually excited and ballasted. These arrangements are only examples of techniques that may be used to provide the desired uniformity to the array .

Such designs minimize ohmic losses in the electrodes as arrays increase in size and improve the characteristics and reproducibility for igniting the array or collection. In addition these designs decrease the voltage variation appearing across individual devices in at least 10 of the devices in the array. This decrease is such that when a minimum voltage sufficient to cause discharging of the at least 10 of the devices is applied then the voltage difference between the first and second electrodes at every cavity of the discharge devices has a voltage difference of no more than 20 of the average voltage difference. The lower the voltage difference between a desired set of devices in the array the better the uniformity in emission. Thus more preferably the voltage difference may be no more than 10 5 2 or 1 of the average voltage difference of at least 10 20 50 100 1000 or 10 000 devices.

In addition to exciting the sub arrays independently using a multiple film dielectric allows one to realize much larger arrays that are well behaved for the reasons above. The addition of a screen on top of one electrode or replacing one of the electrodes with a screen still further improves device and array characteristics as discussed below.

Some of the embodiments may be manufactured as single microdischarge devices or arrays of devices by mass production techniques. The materials used in the microdischarge device of these embodiments are thin and inexpensive relative to conventional microdischarge devices. Similarly the material characteristics of microdischarge devices of the embodiments are thus manufacturable by large scale processes unlike arrays of Si based microdischarge devices which are limited in size typically to 12 Si wafers. One example of such a process is a roll to roll manufacturing process in which individual rolls of the three layers of one embodiment two laminating layers and the microdischarge layer including anode cathode and dielectric are assembled into one roll. This assembly would of course take place in the presence of the desired gas or gas mixture so that the finished laminated devices would have the proper gas in each microcavity discharge. Also immediately prior to laminating the devices the microcavities could be formed by any of several processes as mentioned before including laser micromachining. After large sheets of microdischarge devices are fabricated at low cost these sheets may subsequently be cut into smaller sections and then fitted with electrical connections to be applied to any number of uses.

As described above a single microdischarge device or arrays of devices having an insulating substrate may also be produced by the same manufacturing processes. More specifically in large scale roll to roll manufacturing rolls of metal film forming the first and second electrodes may be assembled on Kapton as the insulating substrate and another polymer as the insulator. The cavities may then be machined by imaging laser radiation onto the metal polymer metal sandwich through a mask. Such imaging techniques are well known in the laser micromachining industry. The cavities may also be formed by alternate methods such as mechanically drilling or punching holes.

To mass produce the microdischarge devices also may require an inexpensive means of sealing the microdischarge device. As discussed above the microdischarge device may be sealed by lamination with an optically transmissive material to enclose the cavity containing the gas. The process may include sealing the microdischarge device or array of microdischarge devices between two sheets of optically transmissive material in the presence of the desired gas in much the same way a driver s license is laminated .

A conventional plastic laminate may be used to seal the device. One problem with this is that the plastic may outgas impurities into the gas and limit the lifetime of the laminated microdischarge device. However the lifetime the sealing material is not a fundamental limitation on the device lifetime. For example the lifetime of the microdischarge device will increase when using sealing materials that outgas less. Similarly depositing a thin transmissive film such as tantalum oxide or glass onto conventional laminating sheets will impede or eliminate the outgassing process and extend the lifetime of the microdischarge devices. Another alternative may be a vacuum baking procedure to significantly reduce the outgassing of the conventional laminate sheets.

In another embodiment illustrated in the device includes a conducting screen electrode or screen that is in contact with and extends across at least one of the first electrode or the second electrode of the microdischarge device . The screen improves both the lifetime and light output of the microdischarge device making it more efficient by allowing the device to operate at lower voltages and producing greater light output power at the same power. The result of this is that the emission intensity of discharge from the end of the cavity in which the screen is present is up to for example an order of magnitude larger than the emission intensity when a screen is not present.

The screen as shown in preferably has openings that are no larger than the diameter of the cavity of the microdischarge device . Preferably screens are constructed of a metal such as Ni Au or Cu which are available commercially as sample holders for Transmission Electron Microscopy TEM and are chosen such that most of the light reaching the screen from the microdischarge passes through the screen . The thickness of the screen may range from 10 10 mm and preferably ranges from 1 m 500 m including 10 10 m 10 1 m and 100 1 m. Other conductive materials may also be used to form the screen such as ITO which does not absorb substantially at a wavelength emitted by the discharge. The screen may be mounted onto either or both the first electrode or second electrode . The screen presents a more uniform electrostatic potential to the discharge in the cavity as the screen covers at least part of the hole in the electrodes and .

Alternatively shows an embodiment of a device in which the conducting screen replaces the second electrode rather than being disposed on the second electrode. Although depicts an embodiment in which the screen replaces the second electrode as above the screen may replace the first electrode or screens may replace both electrodes. An insulator is disposed between the screen and the other electrode with the cavity present as above. One feature of a microdischarge device having a screen is that the emission intensity of light from the end of the cavity in which the screen is present is up to an order of magnitude larger than the emission intensity emerging from the other end of the cavity in which the screen is not present. In one example a Ni polyimide Cu microdischarge array having a Ni screen with 55 m 55 m square openings and in contact with the second electrode exhibited intense emission and was clearly observed across a well lit room.

In addition to light being emitted from the cavity electrons may also be extracted from the cavity of the microdischarge device via the screen electrode thereby forming a plasma cathode. This may be used in another embodiment illustrated in in which a microdischarge device includes a phosphor or electroluminescent material disposed onto the screen . Although not shown the phosphor or electroluminescent material may also be disposed onto a non conducting window adjacent to the screen on the opposing side of the screen as the second electrode . In addition the phosphor or electroluminescent material may be disposed on both sides of the device .

Thus in this embodiment electrons are generated in the cavity by the voltage potential between the second electrode and the first electrode . The majority of the electrons are then extracted from the cavity through the screen and then impinge upon the phosphor or electroluminescent material which luminesces. As in the embodiment shown in the screen may replace one of the electrodes and preferably at least the electrode disposed under the phosphor or electroluminescent material . Furthermore one variation on this embodiment would be to insert a non conducting layer between the screen and the proximate electrode. This would allow one to operate the microdischarge continuously but illuminate the phosphor only when a voltage pulse is applied between the insulator and the screen that would attract the electrons towards the screen .

An alternative embodiment in which the second electrode and screen electrode are replaced by a conducting but optically transmissive electrode is shown in the microdischarge device in . The conducting electrode is a combination of layers that may include a conducting film disposed on a supporting surface . The conducting film is fabricated from at least one material that is both conducting and optically transmissive such as ITO and is disposed over the entire insulator including the opening to the cavity . The conducting film serves as the second electrode but in addition establishes a uniform potential surface for the discharge cavity similar to the screen of previous embodiments. The supporting surface may be fabricated from at least one optically transmissive material and may be formed from a conducting material. In addition the material forming the supporting surface may act as a combination supporting surface window and material sealing the cavity . Examples of acceptable materials used to form the supporting surface include glass plastics and resin polymers. Furthermore window need not be fully transmissive but for some applications translucence will suffice. As above the first electrode may also be replaced by a similar conducting electrode .

A method for fabricating the conducting electrode includes forming the insulator on the first electrode using one of the methods mentioned above depositing the conducting film onto the supporting surface and then sealing the structure by combining these layers. The conducting electrode containing the conducting film traverses the entire microdischarge device or array of microdischarge devices and again presents a more uniform potential surface to the discharge cavity . An advantage of this embodiment over the embodiment containing a screen electrode is that the light output of the microdischarge device or array of microdischarge devices is not limited by the openness of the screen.

A number of potential applications of microdischarge technology would become accessible if thin low cost microdischarge arrays were available. Custom lighting and photodynamic therapy are two such examples of industrial and medical applications that would be ideally suited for such a technology. Photodynamic therapy for example is a medical treatment of rapidly growing importance that involves destroying harmful cells in the human bloodstream with light. The target cells are tagged with a chromophore light absorbing molecular ligand that after attaching to specific cells in the bloodstream typically absorbs light strongly in the red or near infrared for example by chemically attaching a chromophore to an antibody specific for the cell. This wavelength range is of particular interest because human skin transmits passes light in this spectral region. When the light enters the bloodstream and is absorbed by the chromophore the cell is destroyed. A thin low cost flexible and efficient source of red or near infrared light would be ideally suited for this application. A flexible sheet of microdischarges emitting in the red for example could be wrapped around the arm of a patient with a VELCRO strip in much the same way that blood pressure is measured. For a predetermined period such as an hour or two the patient could read or perform other light activity as the phototherapy is carried out. Once treatment is completed the light source could be discarded because of its low cost. That is each patient would be treated with a new arm wrap source. Such a product will also have numerous applications in manufacturing polymer curing stereolithography and medicine germicidal applications phototherapy cellular diagnostics .

Another use of multiple microdischarge devices is gas chromatography i.e. the determination of the composition of a gas. In this application a gas flows laterally between a planar array of microdischarge devices and an opposing planar array of detectors. Each detector has an optical axis that coincides with the corresponding microdischarge device and has a filter that transmits a particular wavelength or set of wavelengths i.e. a bandpass low pass or high pass filter . Only particular wavelengths are transmitted by the gas while others are absorbed. Thus each detector detects light of a particular wavelength generated by the microdischarge devices and that passes through the gas present. As the gas to be tested enters each microdischarge it is energized excited and emits light at wavelengths characteristic of the particular gas. Each detector then would observe a particular wavelength region enabling the composition of the gas flow stream or the presence of impurities in the gas flow stream to be determined.

One method to determine the composition is to have the planar array emit light of a broad set of wavelengths and vary the filters of the corresponding detectors. Another method to determine the composition is to vary the wavelength of the light emitted from the microdischarge devices in the planar array perhaps by varying the gas that fills the microdischarge devices and having the same filter for each corresponding detector. In either case data are collected and the composition of the gas determined from the transmission absorption spectra of the gas. The microdischarge devices may emit either incoherent light such as the custom lighting arrays above or coherent light as described by the microlasers described below . Alternately these methods may be combined that is various sets of microdischarge devices in the array could emit light of the same wavelength with each set emitting light of a different wavelength from another set. In this case various filters may be used to transmit light to the detectors. Note that in some applications such as chemical sensors only a few tens of individual devices may be required while in other applications such as industrial lighting thousands to millions of individual lighting may be required.

The microdischarge device may also be combined to form a stack of individual microdischarge devices and as shown in . The microdischarge device comprises a first microdischarge device including a first electrode insulator and second electrode similar to the individual devices shown in and a second microdischarge device comprising another second electrode insulator and first electrode . An insulating material is disposed between the first microdischarge device and the second microdischarge device . The number of microdischarge devices present in the microdischarge device is arbitrary depending on the desired characteristics of the overall device. However the cavity of the microdischarge device is formed by aligning the cavities of the individual microdischarge devices and for greater efficiency or by machining cavity through layers once the structure has been assembled.

Alternatively as shown in one second electrode or first electrode for each device and the insulating material between the devices may be removed in forming a microdischarge device . In this case the first electrode for the first microdischarge device may serve as the second electrode for the second microdischarge device . Thus the structure of the microdischarge device may be second electrode insulator first electrode second electrode insulators first electrode second electrode etc . . . with the cavities aligned. Similarly any of the microdischarge devices of the preceding embodiments may be stacked. In another embodiment not shown the microdischarge devices may be essentially back to back i.e. the second electrode for the first microdischarge device may serve as the second electrode for the next microdischarge device or the first electrode for the first microdischarge device may serve as the first electrode for the next microdischarge device.

The microdischarge devices and may be fabricated in a manner similar to that given above for the individual microdischarge devices in the above embodiments i.e. fabrication of the microdischarge device may be relatively simple in an embodiment in which the layers are successively stacked second electrode insulator first electrode second electrode insulator and first electrode second electrode.

The cavity may be formed either in each layer individually before stacking the layers or after the layers have been stacked. The cavity of the microdischarge devices and may be filled with the selected gas and then sealed. For example the microdischarge device may be positioned in a vacuum chamber the chamber evacuated and then backfilled with the selected gas and the cavity sealed. A microdischarge device having a screen electrode or optically transmissive conducting film may additionally require mechanical assembly of the layers in a vacuum chamber that has been backfilled with the selected gas to permit the gas to fill the cavity of each individual microdischarge device.

One application using the microdischarge device and is a multi stage structure for the remediation of toxic gases. This application entails flowing a gas that is environmentally hazardous or toxic through a series of microdischarges in the cavity to break down the gas into benign products. Alternatively the products of the gas discharge can be reacted with a titration gas 0 N etc. to produce a benign product rather than being completely broken down. In this application the flow of the hazardous toxic gas through the cavity is imperative and thus the microdischarge device and would not be sealed by a laminate. Similarly the individual microdischarge devices and would not be sealed by a conducting film disposed between the succeeding dielectric layers although a screen electrode may still be disposed between the succeeding microdischarge devices and .

The microdischarge device shown in is also ideally suited for realizing a microlaser. Additional components not shown that are well known in the art such as a mirror set may be used to realize the microlaser. The stack of individual microdischarge devices and are aligned such that the discharge axes are coincident. These microlasers can generate ultraviolet Nrare gas halide excimers visible or infrared radiation that may be used in materials processing or atmospheric diagnostic applications.

As mentioned before while one focus of the present invention has been generally toward a flexible microdischarge device some applications may not require flexibility e.g. custom lighting gas chromatography and lasers. Benefits are conferred in these applications by the use of a thin insulator between the second electrode and first electrode other than silicon. The use of a thin insulator reduces the thickness of the various devices and additionally decreases the material and fabrication costs of the microdischarge device compared with conventional microdischarge devices using silicon for example which must be etched to form the cavity . The lack of necessity of flexibility for these applications allows some of the materials used in the microdischarge devices described above to include more rigid yet inexpensive materials. For example in some applications the second electrode or first electrode may be constructed of amorphous or polycrystalline silicon instead of metal. Similarly the insulator sandwiched between the second electrode and first electrode may be an undoped or low doped semiconductor. For example silicon with a doping of 10cmor less may be sufficient to form an insulator. Additionally material to seal the cavity or the supporting surface for the conducting film that replaces the metal second electrode may be glass rather than a plastic or resin. Although Si is generally used as the preferred material any semiconductor material such as group IV Ge diamond III V GaAs InP and II VI ZnSe materials may also be used.

While the present invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments the description is illustrative of the invention and not to be construed as limiting the invention. Various modifications and applications may occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

