---

title: Electro optical scanning phased array antenna for pulsed operation
abstract: An electro optical scanning phased array antenna having a laser which generates a pulsed output. A microwave source has an output which amplitude modulates the optical output from the laser through an optical modulator. An optical loop circuit has an input connected to an output from the optical modulator and a variable time delay element. The optical loop circuit generates a plurality of modulated optical pulses at equidistantly spaced time intervals from each other at an output from the loop circuit. These time intervals vary as a function of the variable time delay element and a control circuit controls the time delay attributable to the variable time delay element. An antenna array includes end elements while a circuit converts the optical output pulses from the optical loop circuit to radio frequency signals electrically connected to the elements of the antenna array.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08779977&OS=08779977&RS=08779977
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08779977
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070626
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates generally to scanning antennas and more particularly to a high frequency electro optical scanning antenna.

High frequency radio frequency RF communication and radar systems typically use a phased antenna array to control the direction of the electromagnetic transmission. Phased array antennas are inherently narrow band antennas in which the scan angle varies as a function of the true time delay or phase delay between the microwave radiation from each adjacent antenna element.

In order to control the beam direction of the transmission the previously known scanning antennas have utilized feed networks that vary either the phase or time delay between the feed point for the antenna and the individual antenna array elements. A broadside or undeflected beam occurs when the input signal reaches the individual antenna array elements at the same time and phase. In practice the beam direction can be varied degrees off center from the broadside direction by varying the phase or time delay of the signal to the individual antenna elements.

In order to control the direction of the beam transmission from the antenna many of the previously known antenna arrays have utilized variable phase networks wherein one network is connected between the signal input to the antenna array and each antenna element. These previously known antennas however have not proven wholly satisfactory in operation.

One disadvantage of utilizing variable phase networks to control the beam direction for the phased antenna array is that the variable phase networks are expensive and this expense increases dramatically as the number of antenna elements increases.

A still further disadvantage of these previously known variable phase networks is that the previously known systems have utilized switches to selectively connect transmission line segments between the signal input to the antenna and the various antenna elements. Since each transmission line section introduces a preset time delay or phase shift to its associated antenna element the deflection of the beam from the broadside beam direction is limited to a number of discrete angles relative to the broadside beam direction. Furthermore signal losses associated with these switches are unacceptable for many high frequency applications i.e. applications where the wavelength is in the millimeter range such as 35 gigahertz.

A still further disadvantage of these previously known variable phase networks is that the circuitry necessary to effect the variable phase particularly when a high number of antenna elements is involved is necessarily bulky in construction. In many applications for example when the antenna is used in an aircraft the space requirements for these previously known systems exceed the available space limitations of the aircraft. This in turn necessitates undesirable compromises in the utilization of the available aircraft space.

The present invention provides an electro optical scanning antenna which overcomes all of the above disadvantages of the previously known scanning antennas.

In brief the scanning antenna of the present invention comprises an antenna array having a plurality of antenna elements. These antenna elements are aligned linearly relative to each other so that the antenna elements are equidistantly spaced from each other.

In order to provide the timing signals necessary to properly activate the antenna elements a pulsed laser such as a tunable CW laser combined with an optical switch or modulator produces a pulsed optical output signal to the input of an external optical modulator. The optical pulse is then modulated by a high frequency RF signal to produce RF modulated output optical pulses on the output from the modulator.

The output pulses from the optical modulator are in turn coupled as an input signal to a 2 2 optical coupler which is connected to an optical loop circuit. The loop circuit includes a variable time delay element an optical amplifier and other optical components that help to reduce the noise circulation in the loop so that upon receipt of an RF modulated optical pulse from the optical modulator the optical loop circuit regenerates a plurality of modulated optical output pulses at equidistantly spaced time intervals from each other. The time spacing of the pulses from the optical loop circuit however will vary as a function of the variable time delay element.

In one embodiment of the invention the laser is a variable wavelength tunable laser while the variable time delay element in the optical loop circuit comprises a wavelength dependent time delay element. Consequently the time interval between output pulses from the optical loop circuit varies as a function of the laser wavelength.

In yet another embodiment the laser comprises a fixed wavelength laser and the variable time delay element in the optical loop circuit comprises an electro optical waveguide device in which the index may be varied by changing the bias applied to the waveguide device. Consequently the time interval between output pulses from the optical loop circuit varies as a function of the bias applied to the electro optical waveguide device.

The optical pulses from the loop circuit are then utilized to activate the antenna elements in a transmission mode or receiving mode. In one embodiment a plurality of 1 2 optical switches are coupled in series with the output signal from the optical loop circuit. A second output from each optical switch is then connected through a photodetector and RF amplifier to its associated antenna element. Consequently in operation after the loop circuit has regenerated a number of pulses at least equal to the number of antenna elements the optical switches are switched to their second position thus diverting the regenerated optical pulses from the loop circuit to the antenna elements through the photodetector and RF amplifier thus activating the antenna elements in the desired fashion. The timing of the activation of the individual antenna elements however is controllable by varying the frequency or wavelength of the tunable laser and by doing so varies the beam deflection of the radiated signal.

In still other embodiments of the invention for a receiving mode configuration the received RF microwave pulsed signals from the antenna elements are combined by 2 1 RF combiners which are connected in series with each other between the antenna elements through RF cable delays to produce the received pulse train that is synchronized with the output local oscillator pulse signal train produced from the optical loop circuit through a photodetector and then an RF phase shifter. Each RF cable delay introduces the same time delay between the adjacent antenna elements so that it matches the fixed time delay produced by the optical loop so that the received RF pulse train can be synchronized with the reference local oscillator pulse train produced by the optical loop. The pulse train pairs are then mixed using an RF mixer and the output signal from the mixer goes to conventional RF signal processing systems.

With reference first to a block diagrammatic view of a first embodiment of an electro optical scanning antenna array of the present invention is shown having a plurality N of antenna elements . The antenna elements are linearly aligned with each other and are preferably equidistantly spaced from each other. Although the antenna array illustrated in shows only three antenna elements it will be understood that fewer or more antenna elements may be utilized in the antenna array without deviation from the spirit or scope of the invention.

Still referring to the scanning antenna array includes a laser which generates a pulsed output. The laser may be a pulsed laser or a continuous wave diode laser combined with a square function optical switch or modulator.

The laser has its output optically coupled to an external optical amplitude modulator . The modulator receives an input signal from a microwave frequency source e.g. 35 gigahertz to modulate the output light pulse from the laser. Alternatively however the laser may be directly amplitude modulated or externally modulated by the microwave source first then gated by the square function switch or modulator to produce the RF modulated optical pulse.

The modulated optical signal from the laser is then optically coupled to one input of a 2 2 optical fiber coupler . An optical loop circuit is then optically connected between an output of the coupler and the other input of the coupler . This optical circuit furthermore includes a variable time delay element as well as fixed time delay elements made by the optical fibers connecting all the components in the loop. The optical loop circuit also preferably includes an optical amplifier along with an optical device that cleans the optical noise and regulates the polarization in the loop.

In one embodiment of the invention the laser is a variable wavelength tunable laser while the variable time delay element in the optical loop circuit comprises a wavelength dependent time delay element such as a photonic band gap wave guide or an optical fiber grating used in the transmission mode. Consequently the time interval between output pulses from the optical loop circuit varies as a function of the laser wavelength. A control circuit controls the operation of the laser to continuously vary the wavelength of the laser within predetermined limits and thus the time interval between consecutive output pulses from the optical loop circuit .

In yet another embodiment illustrated in the laser comprises a fixed wavelength laser and the variable time delay element in the optical loop circuit comprises an electro optical waveguide device in which the index may be varied by changing the bias applied to the waveguide device. Consequently the time interval between output pulses from the optical loop circuit varies as a function of the bias applied to the electro optical waveguide device. A control circuit controls the bias applied to the variable time delay element and thus the time interval between consecutive output pulses from the optical loop circuit .

The remaining embodiments of the invention will be described as having a variable wavelength tunable laser and a wavelength dependent time delay element as the variable time delay element in the optical loop circuit . It will be understood however that other types of variable time delay elements such as an electro optical waveguide device with an index which varies as a function of the applied bias may be utilized without deviating from the spirit or scope of the invention.

Referring again to upon receipt of an RF modulated optical pulse from the optical modulator the optical loop circuit generates a series of optical pulses on a second outlet from the coupler . These optical pulses on the coupler outlet furthermore are equidistantly spaced in time from each other in an amount determined by the wavelength of the laser due to the variable time delay device . Furthermore the number of pulses regenerated by the optical loop circuit in response to an input optical pulse from the optical modulator comprises at least the number N i.e. the number of antenna elements .

Still referring to the scanning antenna array includes a plurality of 1 2 optical switches which are optically connected in series with each other so that one output from each optical switch is connected as an input to the next downstream optical switch. Furthermore one optical switch is associated with each antenna element except optionally for the last antenna element furthest downstream from the optical loop circuit which can be connected directly with the output to the optical switch associated with the preceding antenna element . Consequently the antenna array includes at least N 1 optical switches. Furthermore the operation of the optical switches is controlled by a switch control circuit .

The second or other output from each optical switch is connected as an input signal to a photodetector associated with the particular antenna element . The photodetector converts the light signal and produces a radio frequency RF signal on its output. This RF signal is coupled through an RF amplifier to its associated antenna element . It will of course be understood that one photodetector and one RF amplifier is associated with each antenna element .

In operation the laser control circuit adjusts the wavelength of the laser to achieve the desired beam deflection. The output from the laser is then modulated by the optical modulator to produce an RF modulated optical pulse on the output from the modulator. This pulse is then coupled as an input signal to the optical loop circuit through the coupler .

Upon receipt of the optical pulse from the modulator the optical loop circuit generates a series of optical pulses on the second output from the optical coupler and in which the time delays for the pulses are equal to t 2 t 3 t . . . n t where equals the time delay introduced by the fixed time delay for the light at a center wavelength travel one revolution in the optical loop circuit t equals the change in time delay introduced by the variable time delay device as the wavelength of the laser changes and n equals the number of antenna elements .

During the generation of the pulse train by the optical loop circuit the switch control maintains the optical switches in a first position in which the pulse train passes directly from each optical switch to the input of the next downstream optical switch or for the last antenna element directly to that antenna element . Furthermore the optical path between not only the first optical switch and the optical coupler but also between each adjacent pair of optical switches are not only equal but are dimensioned to substantially equal the optical round trip path in the optical loop that introduced the fixed time delay .

After a pulse train has been regenerated by the optical loop circuit equaling at least the number of pulses corresponding to the number N of antenna elements the switch control activates all of the switches simultaneously to switch the switches to a second position. In doing so the optical pulses are diverted to the photodetector associated with each optical switch which in turn activates the antenna element through its associated RF amplifier . Since the time delay interposed by the optical connection between adjacent optical switches effectively cancels the optical delay introduced by the fixed time delay in the optical loop circuit the antenna elements will be activated at a time period determined by t thus steering the radiated beam in the desired fashion. Since t is determined by the variable time delay device which varies as a function of the laser wavelength the beam steering can be achieved continuously within the limits of the antenna array by merely controlling the laser wavelength by the control circuit .

The antenna illustrated in illustrates the operation of the antenna in a transmission mode. With reference now to the operation of the antenna will be illustrated in a receive mode. Furthermore it will be understood that like reference characters in correspond to these same elements and that a further description of these elements is not required.

With reference then to with the antenna in a receive mode each antenna element is coupled to an RF amplifier having its output connected to an RF mixer . The received RF signal through the output from the RF amplifier for each antenna element is mixed at the mixer with the reference local oscillator RF signal produced by the optical delay loop system connected to a second input of the RF mixer . An output from the RF mixer is then coupled through a filter thus forming an intermediate frequency output from the antenna element . It will of course be understood that one RF mixer is associated with each antenna element . All of the intermediate frequency output from the filters are then constructively combined and processed in the conventional fashion.

In operation the output signals from the RF amplifiers to the mixer vary between adjacent antenna elements by the time t as previously described. Consequently since these output signals are provided to the RF mixer the output signals from the RF mixer are synchronized in the desired fashion as a function of beam deflection.

With reference now to a still further embodiment of the present invention is shown in a signal reception mode. Unlike the previous embodiments of the invention the second output from the coupler i.e. the output on which the pulse train from the optical loop circuit is produced is coupled directly as an input signal to a photodetector . This photodetector converts the light to an RF signal which is coupled to an RF mixer via an RF phase shifter .

An optical modulator is associated with each antenna element . These optical modulators are coupled in series with each other through a fixed length optical fiber dimensioned to be equal to the time delay interposed by the fixed time delay in the optical loop . A fixed frequency laser is coupled as an input signal to one end of the series of optical modulators while the other end of the optical modulators is coupled as an input signal to a photodetector . The output from the photodetector is coupled as an input signal to the RF mixer .

Each antenna element is coupled through an RF amplifier to the optical modulator associated with the antenna element so that the received RF signal from each element RF modulates the optical signal from the laser . In doing so the optical modulators produce a pulse train to the photodetector corresponding to the signal received by the antenna elements .

Since the optical pulse train from the optical loop circuit varies in time delay depending upon the wavelength of the laser and thus the beam deflection the combination of the signals from the photodetector effectively synchronize the received signals from the antenna elements and provide the combined signals to an RF filter which selects the desired IF output signal from the RF mixer . The output signal from the RF mixer and filter combination is then processed using standard RF processing circuitry.

With reference now to a still further embodiment of the present invention is shown which is similar to the embodiment except that the received signals from the antenna elements are directly processed in the RF domain rather than the optical domain. More specifically each antenna element is coupled through an RF cable delay to an input signal to an RF amplifier . The time delay from each cable delay and amplifier furthermore is dimensioned to compensate for the fixed time delay introduced by the fixed time delay in the optical loop circuit .

The output signals from the RF amplifiers are combined together using standard RF combiners and the pulse train from the antenna elements is coupled as an input signal to the mixer . This signal as before is then synchronized by the pulse train from the photodetector thus effectively steering the antenna array in the desired fashion.

With reference now to a further embodiment of the invention is shown which corresponds to the embodiment except that the operation of the invention is illustrated in the transmission mode. More specifically the output signals from the photodetector as before are synchronized in time by an amount depending on the laser wavelength and thus the desired beam deflection.

At least N 1 1 2 RF switches are connected in series with each other through an RF cable delay . The RF cable delay is dimensioned to introduce a time delay in the RF signal equal to the time delay introduced by the fixed time delay of the optical loop circuit . Appropriate RF amplifiers are also provided as required before between and after the RF switches to amplify the RF signal as required.

The other output from the RF switches is connected to one of the antenna elements except for the last antenna element for which no switch is required so that one RF switch is associated with each antenna element except for the last element .

In operation the optical loop circuit generates a plurality of optical pulses to the photodetector having a time delay dependent upon the wavelength of the laser . The photodetector as before converts these optical pulses into RF pulses which are in turn coupled to the series of RF switches through the RF amplifiers .

During a number of pulses corresponding to the number N of the antenna elements a switch control maintains the switches in a first position so that the RF pulse train is propagated along the switches . Once the number of pulses corresponding to the number of antenna elements have been generated the RF switch control simultaneously switches the RF switches to their second position thus connecting the RF pulse to the antenna element associated with the RF switch thus activating or energizing the antenna elements in the desired fashion and with a time delay determined by the frequency of the laser .

With reference now to a still further embodiment of the present invention is shown which corresponds to the embodiment except that it includes a second laser having a wavelength different than the first laser . A control circuit controls the wavelength of the second laser while an optical modulator modulates the laser output in accordance with a second RF generator .

The outputs from the optical modulators and are then coupled as input signals to a wavelength division multiplex which combines the output signals from the optical modulators and together in the conventional fashion. This combined signal is then coupled as an optical input signal to the optical loop circuit which regenerates two series of optical pulses having time delays determined by two variable delay elements which are wavelength sensitive to its corresponding lasers and controlled by the control circuits and respectively.

The output from the optical coupler is subsequently coupled as an input signal to a wavelength division multiplexer which then separates the first series of pulses with a wavelength corresponding to the first laser from the second series of pulses with a different wavelength corresponding from the second laser . Each output from the wavelength division multiplexer is then coupled as an input of the corresponding photodetector or . The RF outputs from the photodetectors and are then combined by an RF combiner and this combined signal is then coupled to the antenna array in the same fashion as discussed with respect to the embodiment.

Consequently by utilizing two lasers the same antenna array may be simultaneously and independently used with two RF beams for two purposes e.g. radar and communications. In achieving this dual use of the antenna array it is only necessary that the wavelength of the lasers and sufficiently differ from each other to avoid cross interference.

From the foregoing it can be seen that the present invention provides an RF microwave beam forming of an electro optical scanning antenna which utilizes a single variable time delay element in order to achieve the variable t between each neighbored antenna elements in both the transmission and receive mode for each RF beam. A primary advantage of the present invention is that since only a single variable time delay element is utilized in the optical loop circuit any inaccuracy caused by the use of multiple variable time delay devices is completely avoided.

Having described my invention however many modifications thereto will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

