---

title: Mobile device management
abstract: The invention provides systems and methods for managing mobile devices of supported by different platforms. In some embodiments, the invention provides this management capability by utilizing one or more agents or modules native to the platforms themselves to provide interaction with individual mobile. In some embodiments, the invention provides an abstraction layer by which management tasks or other functions relating to mobile devices of different types may be generally defined and translated for application to mobile devices supported by different platforms. In some embodiments, the invention utilizes existing organizational structure of an enterprise or organization to define management permission for mobile device administrators and end users as well as to define policy configuration schemes for mobile devices. In some embodiments, the invention tracks the lifecycle of mobile devices within an enterprise or organization as assets within the organization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903365&OS=08903365&RS=08903365
owner: CA, Inc.
number: 08903365
owner_city: Islandia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070820
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 838 366 filed Aug. 18 2006 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates to systems and methods for management of a plurality of mobile devices of varying platforms though a single management application.

Businesses enterprises or other organizations often employ multiple persons that utilize one or more wireless computer implemented mobile devices to perform at least a modicum of work related tasks. Accordingly these enterprises are faced with a myriad of management challenges relating to these mobile devices such as for example data and network security software updates reliability of communication channels and other challenges. Furthermore in many instances the mobile devices utilized by employees or associates of an organization vary in their type supporting platform or vary in other ways. This presents even further challenges to an enterprise attempting to manage a plurality of mobile devices.

Still more challenges may be posed by the multitude of variation that takes place in an organization in relation to the mobile devices of employees or associates. For example within an enterprise or organization users and devices may be added deleted and changed. Users may leave an enterprise move within the enterprise change roles or responsibilities and or be given different mobile devices. This variation may cause changes in geographic locations telephone numbers devices policy changes service providers and or service provider plans. Furthermore devices can be lost destroyed reassigned or removed from operation. As such management of the multitude of variation within and among mobile devices of an enterprise or organization may inter alia tax resources present security risks and or pose other problems.

The invention provides enterprises or other organizations with an enterprise level device management tool for various mobile device platforms e.g. Microsoft Symbian and RIM . The invention provides management over the air OTA with security that utilizes where practical Open Mobile Alliance OMA Device Management DM standards components. The invention enables device independent consolidated asset inventory configuration management policy compliance and security management through a single management application.

In some embodiments the invention provides systems and methods for managing mobile devices of supported by different platforms by utilizing one or more agents or modules native to the platforms themselves to provide interaction with individual mobile devices. In some embodiments the invention provides an abstraction layer by which management tasks or other functions relating to mobile devices of different types may be generally defined and translated for application to mobile devices supported by different platforms. In some embodiments the invention utilizes existing organizational structure e.g. an enterprise directory of an enterprise or organization to define management permissions for mobile device administrators and end users as well as to define policy configuration schemes for mobile devices or for other purposes. In some embodiments the invention tracks the lifecycle of mobile devices within an enterprise or organization as assets within the organization. As used herein the term enterprise may refer to any business entity educational entity non profit organization governmental or quasi governmental organization or other organization.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the detailed description and the attached drawings. It is understood that both the foregoing summary and the following detailed description are for exemplification of features of the invention and are not restrictive as to the scope of the invention.

The invention provides systems and methods for providing enterprise level management of mobile devices supported by various mobile platforms. In some embodiments the invention provides this management capability by utilizing one or more agents or modules native to and or specific to the platforms themselves to facilitate interaction with individual mobile devices. In some embodiments the invention provides an abstraction layer by which management tasks or other functions relating to mobile devices of different types may be generally defined and translated for application to mobile devices supported by varying platforms. In some embodiments the invention may utilize the existing organizational structure e.g. an enterprise directory of an enterprise or organization to define management permissions for mobile device administrators and end users as well as to define policy configuration schemes for mobile devices or for other purposes. In some embodiments the invention tracks the lifecycle of mobile devices within an enterprise or organization as assets within the organization. As used herein the term enterprise may refer to any business entity educational entity non profit organization governmental or quasi governmental organization or other organization.

In some embodiments MDM application may include a computer implemented software application having one or more modules for performing one or more features and functions of the invention such as for example provisioning of mobile devices to end users discovery of mobile devices receipt of end user information receipt of mobile device related information registration of mobile devices bootstrapping of mobile devices performing management tasks for mobile devices including assigning applying policies to mobile devices and other management tasks receiving and displaying status configuration or other information regarding mobile devices communicating with platform servers and or agents or modules thereof to facilitate interaction with mobile devices generating one or more reports or alerts supporting one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs or other interfaces including portals end user interfaces or other access points to MDM application and or for performing other features of functions of the invention disclosed herein. In some embodiments one or more modules may include an access control module a registration module a management module a monitoring module a web services module and or other modules.

In some embodiments MDM application and or one or more of modules may operate on or be compatible with Sun Solaris Microsoft Windows SUSE Linux Red Hat Linux or other operating systems.

In some embodiments MDM server may include one or more server machines or other computing devices having one or more processors and associated memory for receiving and carrying out instructions necessary to support the features and functions of MDM application . In some embodiments MDM server may include multiple MDM servers on which the features and functions of MDM application may be distributed. In some embodiments MD server may include multiple MDM servers that may be distributed geographically. In some embodiments MDM server may provide web services via WSI a software system that supports interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network within firewall . As used herein web services may refer to web application programming interfaces APIs that may be accessed over a network such as for example the Internet and executed on a remote system hosting requested services.

In some embodiments MDM database may include or interface to for example any data storage or query formats platforms or resources such as OLAP On Line Analytical Processing SQL Standard Language Query a SAN storage area network Microsoft Access or others may also be used incorporated or accessed into the invention. In some embodiments the design of MDM database may support both MS SQL Server and Oracle formats. In some embodiments MDM database may include any combination of multiple databases or other data storage devices and may receive and store information utilized by the features and functions of the invention disclosed herein. In some embodiments product tables for mobile devices may exist in MDM database .

In some embodiments portals may include access points to MDM application for one or more administrative users and or end users wherein they may be referred to as end user portals . In some embodiments a portal may include support or present one or more GUIs or other interfaces whereby administrative or end users interact with MDM application e.g. provide instructions to MDM application receive information from MDM application or other interaction . In some embodiments portals may include computer monitors or other display devices and one or more input devices e.g. keyboard mouse or other input device . In some embodiments the display devices and input devices may exist at MDM server or at a terminal in communication with MDM server . In some embodiments the connection between a portal and MDM server may include network which may include the Internet.

In some embodiments enterprise directory may include a database or other data store wherein information regarding employees of the enterprise or other persons who may utilize one or more of mobile devices information regarding one or more devices or other information is stored. In some embodiments enterprise directory may include a Microsoft Active Directory a lightweight directory access protocol LDAP directory or other type of enterprise directory. In some embodiments enterprise directory may be supported by one or more computing and data storage devices of the enterprise s IT infrastructure.

In some embodiments enterprise directory may include information regarding employees of the enterprise or other persons associated with the enterprise. This information may include a name position or title home address work address telephone number information relating to the person s permissions within the enterprise s IT network or other information. In some embodiments the enterprise utilizing MDM application may utilize enterprise directory for authentication to the enterprise s IT network and authorization thereto by virtue of stored information regarding the enterprise role or other permission status indicator of users. In some embodiments an enterprise role may include an employee s status and permissions within the enterprise s IT infrastructure which may be dependant on job description department seniority or other factors . As the enterprise may require that MDM application comply with their enterprise policies and enterprise authentication authorization audit framework for its IT infrastructure MDM application may utilize the enterprise directory for its authentication and authorization. In doing so MDM application may utilize enterprise role information or other information regarding users within enterprise directory to dictate access permissions configuration of mobile devices and or other features within the invention.

In some embodiments one or more platform servers may include one or more servers or other computer implemented infrastructure including databases and data stores that provide support for the function of mobile devices . In some embodiments platform servers may include platform servers of various types each of which provide support for mobile devices of different types. For example in some embodiments platform servers may include a first platform server e.g. a platform server that supports mobile devices of a first type e.g. a mobile device a second platform server e.g. a platform server that supports mobile devices of a second type e.g. a mobile device a third platform server e.g. a platform server that supports mobile devices of a third type e.g. a mobile device and additional platform servers that support additional disparate types of mobile devices. Generally a different platform server supports mobile devices of a single type which may be manufactured or distributed by a common entity. However in some embodiments mobile devices of the same type may include mobile devices of different models e.g. different models of Blackberry devices .

In some instances mobile devices of different types may communicate or perform certain actions or functions using different sometimes proprietary instructions or methods. For example in some instances platform servers may include a Blackberry Enterprise Server e.g. an RIM Blackberry BES server behind firewall with a BRK toolkit and a BES database which may support Blackberry mobile devices a Nokia mobile device platform server may support Nokia or compatible mobile devices and a Microsoft Mobile platform server e.g. a Microsoft PowerShell module that may communicate remotely with Microsoft Exchange Servers with SP2 to enable management of Microsoft Mobile devices via MS Exchange which may support Microsoft Mobile compatible mobile devices . Other platform servers may support other types of mobile devices .

Accordingly a certain type of platform server and its corresponding mobile devices may utilize one or more agents or modules specific to the particular platform to interact and perform various features and functions. In some embodiments MDM application utilizes these platform specific agents or modules already existing in a specific mobile device platform to accomplish various management or other tasks without the need for MDM application itself to include agents or modules specific to each mobile device platform. As such the invention provides an abstraction layer between a single management application and mobile devices of numerous types as discussed herein.

Network may include any one or more of for instance the Internet an intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a Wi Fi wireless LAN a WAN Wide Area Network a SAN Storage Area Network or a MAN Metropolitan Area Network . Any suitable communications link may be utilized including any one or more of for instance a copper telephone line a Digital Subscriber Line DSL connection a Digital Data Service DDS connection an Ethernet connection an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN line an analog modem connection a cable modem connection a wireless connection or other connection.

Wireless infrastructure may include cellular phone wireless internet or other wireless data infrastructure known in the art used to exchange data with wireless mobile devices . In some embodiments wireless infrastructure may include support for wireless application protocol WAP short message service center SMSC and or support for other wireless services.

As disclosed herein in some embodiments one or more mobile devices may include one or more wireless telephonic and or computing devices such as for example cellular phones smartphones personal digital assistants PDAs handheld computing devices pagers or other mobile devices. For example in some embodiments one or more mobile devices may include one or more Blackberry devices Nokia mobile devices Microsoft Mobile devices and or other wireless mobile devices. In some embodiments one or more mobile devices may include one or more laptop computers or other wireless computers.

In some embodiments mobile devices may be associated with a logical state describing a mobile device s relationship with MDM application . These logical states may be utilized to track the asset lifecycle of mobile devices within the enterprise. In some embodiments these logical states may be utilized with asset management applications e.g. CA UDSM Asset Manager that track other assets of the enterprise so as to provide management capability of mobile devices in the context of the enterprise as a whole.

In some embodiments the logical states of mobile devices may include unmanaged wherein a mobile device is not registered in the product discovered wherein a mobile device is automatically discovered within enterprise directory registered or classified wherein a device is associated with an end user scheduled for bootstrap wherein an administrative user has selected a mobile device to be bootstrapped mobile devices scheduled for bootstrap an email message or other alert may be sent to the owner of the mobile device which may be scheduled for an initial policy push of an appropriate end user enterprise role managed wherein a registered mobile device is successfully bootstrapped or other logical states.

In some embodiments a managed device may become unmanaged if it is destroyed in some embodiments the end user of a destroyed mobile device may be assigned a new unmanaged device if an end user leaves the enterprise and the mobile device is the personal property of the end user if the end user leaves the enterprise and the device is put back into a pool of unmanaged devices if the end user receives another mobile device e.g. a new model and the device is put back into a pool of unmanaged devices and or for other reasons.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein may work with various system configurations and that the description given herein regarding computing environment system and other elements thereof is an exemplary configuration. Other configurations may exist. Accordingly more or less of the aforementioned system components may be used and or combined in various embodiments. In other embodiments as would be appreciated the functionalities described herein may be implemented in various combinations of hardware and or firmware in addition to or instead of software.

In some embodiments the systems and methods of the invention may support multiple types of users which may be defined as different user types. For example in some embodiments four different user types may be supported 1 systems administrators 2 service desk analysts 3 application administrators and 4 end users. In some embodiments other types of users may be defined. In some embodiment systems administrators service desk analysts and application administrators may be referred to herein as administrative users. 

In some embodiments a systems administrator may be a power user of the MDM application and may be responsible for monitoring and maintaining various aspects of the configuration of MDM application . In some embodiments the systems administrator may have access to all functions of MDM application which may be accessed for example via a portal . In some embodiments the systems administrator may perform one or more systems administration functions such as for example end user administration networking configuration and administration performance management of MDM application security administration basic scripting techniques to automate processes troubleshooting and working toward resolving any root cause issues within the computing environment in which MDM application operates e.g. environment and or other functions.

In some embodiments a service desk analyst may perform a help desk user role in connection with MDM application . As such in some embodiments a service desk analyst may have access to management components of MDM application with regard to management of the one or more mobile devices . In some embodiments service desk analysts may be responsible for executing day to day tasks of the mobile device management processes such as for example incident management processes and acting as a first point of contact for end users. In some embodiments service desk analyst may be responsible for various tasks regarding mobile device management using MDM application such as for example ensuring that incidents are properly recorded classified and given initial support during the initial phases of an incident life cycle. In some embodiments a service desk analyst may own an incident from start to resolution and may perform all activities required to assign an incident and to make sure other supporting groups are working according to any applicable support policy. In some embodiments MDM application may be accessed by the service desk analyst for example via a portal .

In some embodiments an application administrator may be responsible for the installation of MDM application to an enterprise IT infrastructure maintenance of MDM application backup of data e.g. MDM database and MDM application upgrades of MDM application and administration of the administrative users of the product e.g. systems administrator service desk analyst but need not interact with MDM application .

In some embodiments end users may include the users of mobile devices which may have access to MDM application via their user devices or via and end user portal e.g. portal or other computer implemented terminal connected to MDM server . In some embodiments a single end user may be associated with multiple mobile devices .

In some embodiments a single user may operate as two different types of users. For example an employee in the IT department of an enterprise may be serve as a service desk analyst within the invention but in some instances may also be classified as an end user as the employee likely has one or more mobile devices used for his or her employment.

In some embodiments end users may be associated with a logical state describing their relationship to MDM application such as for example un provisioned wherein an end user is not registered in MDM database unmanaged wherein an end user s mobile device is not bootstrapped a new end user may have the logical state of unprovisioned unmanaged after an end users mobile device is provisioned by being discovered and registered the end user becomes provisioned unmanaged after the mobile device is bootstrapped the end user becomes provisioned managed. In some embodiments a provisioned managed user can become un provisioned unmanaged when an end user is de provisioned e.g. when an employee leaves the organization and disappears from enterprise directory . In some embodiments the logical states of end users may be utilized for asset lifecycle management of mobile devices and or for other purposes.

In some embodiments access control module or other module of MDM application may control access to the various functions of MDM application based on a user s type. In some embodiments one or more functions of MDM application may be inaccessible based on a user s identified type. For example as discussed herein a systems administrator may have access to all of the features and functions of MDM application while a service desk analyst may have access to a lesser set of functions. Further still an end user may have access to a still smaller set of functions of MDM application e.g. may be able to provide certain personal information or information regarding their user device and may be able to view information related to their mobile device but may not be able to apply policies to any mobile devices . In some embodiments different users of the same type may have varying levels of accessibility to functions of MDM application e.g. some service desk analysts may have more access than others . In some embodiments access control module may control access to the features and functions of MDM application such that users may not be presented with GUIs or other interfaces for functions to which they do not have access according to their type i.e. users only see functions that they can utilize .

In some embodiments MDM application may operate in one of two modes 1 standalone and 2 integrated. In the standalone mode MDM application may operate in isolation from other enterprise information technology IT products. In some embodiments in the standalone mode all management functions of MDM application may be initiated by an administrative user. In the integrated mode MDM application may operate in conjunction with other enterprise IT applications such as for example Unicenter Desktop and Server Management UDSM products from CA . In some embodiments MDM application may also be utilized be utilized with an authentication and authorization application or module e.g. eTrust IAM Toolkit from CA a report writing application or module that generates customizes and operates specific reports on data in application databases e.g. CA standard Report Writer Business Objects an application or module that creates and operates process flow programs where steps of the flow are dependent upon specific programmatic parameters which may handle the execution of business processes in relation to MDM application e.g. CA Workflow Engine one or more user interface modules that may be used with MDM application such that the look and feel of the GUIs or other interfaces supported by MDM application may provide a similar style and operation as the other enterprise IT applications used with MDM application e.g. JavaServer Faces JSF or other modules or elements a federated or other database of common information concerning IT components that can be shared among the different enterprise IT products used together e.g. a CA MDB R2 a licensing program used to monitor contracted use of enterprise IT applications or other licensed software e.g. CA lic98 License IT or other licensing software and or other IT applications.

In an operation the one or more provisioned mobile devices may be discovered and registered to one or more end users. In some embodiments registration to end users may include associating an end user with a telephone number or other identifier of a mobile device . In some embodiments an enterprise utilizing an enterprise directory e.g. enterprise directory may associate the telephone number and or other identifier of a mobile device with an end user listed within enterprise directory . In some instances the enterprise may have an internal process for a new employee that registers a mobile device with the employee for example in an asset inventory in a corporate directory address list or other data store. In some embodiments a registration module or other module of MDM application may extract the phone numbers and or other identifiers regarding mobile devices and end user information from enterprise directory into MDM database . The registration module may then associate the phone and or other identifiers with their respective end users.

In some embodiments enterprise directory may include name address enterprise role and or other information regarding end users. Some or all of this information may be associated with a mobile device during mobile device registration. In some embodiments associating enterprise role information of a user with a mobile device may enable MDM application to determine the access level that the end user has to MDM application e.g. what functions the end user should be able to access which may be used to determine the user s user type with respect to MDM application what policy or other configuration information should be applied to the end user s associated mobile device or other information.

In some embodiments a PIN number or IMEI number of a mobile device may be used for registration of a mobile device in addition to or in place of a phone number. In some embodiments mobile device manufacturer model and or other information regarding a mobile device may also be used. In some embodiments registration module may associate each of mobile devices with a unique device name. In some embodiments the unique device name may include a device class or type identifier a unique manufacture number and or other information. For some mobile devices the unique manufacturer number may include an identifier or number assigned by the manufacturer. For example for devices that use an International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI such as GSM phones the string IMEI followed by a colon followed by a valid 15 digit number may be used e.g. IMEI 123456789000000 . In another example for devices that use a Mobile Equipment Identity MEID the string MEID followed by a colon followed by a valid 15 digit number may be used e.g. MEID 123456789000000 . In yet another example for devices that use an Electronic Serial Number ESN such as CDMA phones the string ESN followed by a colon followed by a valid 8 digit number may be used e.g. ESN 12345678 . Other names or identifiers may be used. In some embodiments this information or other information regarding mobile devices may be stored in enterprise directory .

In some embodiments registration module or other module of MDM application may provide a graphical user interface GUI by which an administrative user e.g. a systems administrator may input parameters of enterprise directory for automated registration by registration module e.g. the administrative user may specify the location of enterprise directory to be used the name of the fields to be pulled by registration module from enterprise directory into MDM database or other parameters . In this manner the systems administrator or other administrative user essentially points to enterprise directory and initiates a discovery of end user and mobile device information e.g. user id email address enterprise role information cell mobile phone number manufacturer number device name PIN number serial number and or other information . In some embodiments the GUI or other interface may enable an administrative user to define pulling criteria for retrieving mobile device or end user information from the defined directory or location in enterprise directory . For example the GUI or other interface may enable the administrative user to create a query to be used to pull mobile device or end user information.

In some embodiment the GUI or other interface may enable an administrative user to define a schedule e.g. daily weekly bi weekly monthly or other schedule on which end user status or mobile device may be updated within MDM database . In some embodiments updates may occur upon occurrence of a predefined event or upon command of an administrative user e.g. ad hoc . In some embodiments a report of changes in end user or mobile device status may be provided to an administrative user via a report or alert for subsequent processing e.g. provisioning de provisioning configuration changes or other processing . In some embodiments the administrative user may need to manually interact with MDM application to process these changes.

In some embodiments registration of mobile devices to end users may include one or more manual actions by end users or administrative users e.g. entering end user or mobile device information providing an association between end users and mobile device information or other actions . In some embodiments once a mobile device is discovered the GUI supported by registration module may display a template email message that may be sent to end users to explain to them that they will need to go to access MDM application e.g. via portal complete registration of their mobile device . illustrates an example of an email to an end user providing such instructions.

In some embodiments the mobile device information end user information and or associations between them stored in MDM database may be synchronized with enterprise directory using one way synchronization i.e. enterprise directory may always be authoritative and no updates may be written back to enterprise directory . In some embodiments MDM database may synchronize with enterprise directory on a regularly scheduled basis. In some embodiments MDM database may synchronize with enterprise directory upon the occurrence of an event e.g. the addition of a new end user or mobile device predetermined condition and or upon an administrative user command. In some embodiments registration module or other module of MDM application may provide administrative users reports or alerts regarding user or mobile device additions deletions or other changes. In some embodiments the reports or alerts or other reports or alerts disclosed herein may be provided to administrative user on a GUI through for example portal .

In some embodiments MDM application need not operate in the presence of enterprise directory . In some embodiments wherein an enterprise directory is not present one or more GUIs supported by registration module or other module of MDM application may enable end users or administrative users to register their own mobile devices or the mobile devices of others manually e.g. by presenting an electronic form through which the administrative or end user may enter information regarding the mobile device and or the end user . The information entered may include a user id and or password to authenticate the end user to MDM application authentication may also utilize an enterprise security application such as those disclosed herein a phone number and or other identifier for the mobile device a device type in some embodiments the GUI may include a pull down menu for selection of device types wherein the contents of the pull down menu may come from a list of supported devices provided to MDM application by an administrative user as described herein a wireless service provider operator in some embodiments the GUI may include a pull down menu wherein the contents of the pull down menu may come from a list of supported service providers operators provided to MDM application by an administrative user as described herein mobile device make and or model which may take the form of an a unique manufacturer number as described herein the value of the unique manufacturer number may be checked by registration module for correct syntax . illustrates an interface which is an example of an interface whereby information regarding a mobile device may be entered into MDM database for registration or for other purposes 

In some embodiments CSV comma separated variables files or other delineated file format may be used for batch registration in the absence of enterprise directory .

In some embodiments registration module or other module of MDM application may enable bulk addition of users to MDM database via a bulk loading template. In some embodiments the template may be an MS Excel spreadsheet that may generate XML format. Other formats may be used. In some embodiments the template may include multiple fields such as for example user Id key BES for RIM devices RIM PIN for RIM devices Wireless Access Password for RIM devices generated randomly an IT policy identifier and or other information.

In some embodiments the GUI or other interface provided by registration module may enable an administrative user to create and maintain end users or administrative users on MDM database and define their roles or permissions. In some embodiments the GUI or other interface may provide the administrative user with a list of end users and associated enterprise roles and enable the administrative user to edit information associated with an end user so as to enable management of end users. In some embodiments the administrative user may nominate certain end users who may constitute exceptions to a pre defined enterprise role in situations wherein certain end users require additional privileges. In these instances the nominated end users may be tagged in MDM database as an exception to their predefined enterprise role so that later directory synchronizations will not move them back to their original enterprise role. In some embodiments administrative users may receive a report or alert listing some or all exceptions regarding end user enterprise roles in MDM database .

In some embodiments users end users and administrative users may be authenticated whenever interacting with MDM application via portal or other access point. In some embodiments authentication may include a user providing a username and or a password. In some embodiments users may be authenticated against enterprise directory . As such in some embodiments a user s enterprise role information and or other information may be used to authenticate a user to MDM application .

In some embodiments authentication may utilize or cooperate with a separate enterprise security application such as for example eTrust IAM Toolkit from CA wherein the security application provides an interface into enterprise directory . The security application may oversee authentication against enterprise directory and in some embodiments may utilize an NTLM Microsoft Windows NT LAN Manager authentication scheme. In some embodiments wherein a platform server includes a Blackberry Enterprise Server BES information regarding Blackberry mobile devices and or user information may be extracted from the BES in stead of or in addition to enterprise directory .

In some embodiments registration module or other module of MDM application may enable one or more GUIs whereby administrative users may define a list of supported service providers operators e.g. Verizon AT T Wireless or other wireless service provider operator that may be used with mobile devices within the invention. In some embodiments the list of supported service providers may also may be used to define the types of mobile devices that can be managed by MDM application . In some embodiments the list of supported service providers and mobile device types may be used such that a user may not be able to register a non supported mobile device or a device operated by non supported service provider. In some embodiments registration may be enabled for any type of mobile device or service provider thereof.

In an operation the one or more mobile devices may be scheduled for bootstrapping within MDM application . Bootstrapping refers to a pushing of an initial policy or other set of instructions to a mobile device which brings the mobile devices into a manageable and operational state in relation to MDM application . In some embodiments once a plurality of mobile devices are registered within MDM application an administrative user e.g. a service desk analyst may utilize a GUI provided by a management module or other module of MDM application to select from the plurality of mobile devices e.g. via a pull down menu a query or other selection process and request that the selected mobile devices be scheduled for bootstrapping.

In some embodiments management module or other module of MDM application may provide a GUI or other interface enabling an administrative user e.g. a service desk analyst to schedule the bootstrapping of groups of devices at specific times and set an option to initiate bootstrapping immediately when an end user completes appropriate device information.

In an operation one or more mobile devices scheduled for bootstrapping may be bootstrapped by management module or other module of MDM application by pushing an initial policy or other instruction sets to the mobile devices bringing them under management by MDM application . In some embodiments the initial policy or other instruction set applied to a mobile device during bootstrapping may be set at least in part by using the enterprise role of the end user to which the mobile device is associated. As such the policy includes the correct settings permissions or other characteristics or the end user s enterprise role.

In some embodiments the policies or instructions of the bootstrapping process or other management process of the invention may utilize one or more agents or modules of platform servers to push the policies or instructions to various mobile devices . For example to bootstrap or otherwise push a policy to a mobile device which is a Blackberry device management module may interface with the platform server supporting the blackberry device e.g. the Blackberry Enterprise Server . Management module communicates to the Blackberry Enterprise Server what it requires the Blackberry Enterprise Server to communicate in terms of policy or other instructions to the Blackberry device . One or more agents or modules of the Blackberry Enterprise Server then push the policy or instructions to the Blackberry device in the format and manner appropriate for the Blackberry device. Similarly if a mobile device is a Microsoft Mobile device then management module communicates the policy or other instructions to the platform server managing Microsoft Mobile devices which in turn utilizes one or more of its agents or modules to push the policy or instruction to the Microsoft Mobile devices in the format and manner appropriate for Microsoft Mobile devices. Other mobile devices may be bootstrapped managed by their respective platforms servers using agents or module resident on or otherwise specific to the individual platform servers . In this manner MDM application need not know the manner and format or other platform specific information to uniformly manage a plurality of mobile devices of different types thus providing an abstraction layer between a single management application and mobile devices of various types.

In some embodiments the bootstrap process may take place over the air OTA . OTA bootstrapping or other management may be accomplished by the platform servers initiating over the air communications via network and wireless infrastructure which may include the infrastructure and or action of wireless service providers associated with mobile devices . In some embodiments one or more mobile devices may be bootstrapped or otherwise managed via a cradled connection whereby the mobile devices are connected to network via a wired connection.

In some embodiments wherein certain platforms are used such as for example Windows Mobile 5.0 or similar mobile devices bootstrapping may involve pushing cab provisioning files CPF to mobile devices supported by such platforms. For example in some embodiments system may include an OTA content server which may store CPF files. In some embodiments CPF files may include digitally signed files that include configuration information concerning servers that are authorized to manage devices over the air. In some embodiments some platforms may not utilize CPF files but may utilize bootstrapping files stored in OTA content server .

In some embodiments a separate CPF file may exist for each supported mobile device model utilizing the OTA content server. As such CPF files for each supported mobile device model may need to be created and installed on OTA content server . The CPF files may be sent to the respective managed mobile devices via the network e.g. via email or via another method. The CPF files may then be executed on each of the managed mobile devices . Once the CPF file are executed on mobile devices they are able to be managed by MDM application . Management module or other module of MDM application may provide for the assembly of the CPF files e.g. via a template Velocity or other template using model information carrier access information and MDM server identification. In some embodiments CPF files may not be used with all platform types e.g. Blackberry devices but may only be used for Window Mobile 5 or similar devices.

When mobile devices are successfully bootstrapped they may be managed by MDM application . In an operation one or more administrative users may specify one or more management parameters for one or more mobile devices . Management module or other module of MDM application may provide a GUI or other interface whereby the one or more administrative users may provide one or more management parameters.

Management parameters may define one or more management tasks to be performed using MDM application . Administrative users may utilize the one or more management tasks to manage mobile devices in a common manner regardless of the manufacturer model or platform of the devices. In some instances an administrative user may be able to select a subset or group of all devices managed by MDM application by for example creating a simple query and apply a common management task to all the selected devices regardless of differing models platforms or other differences among the selected devices. MDM application s utilization of agents or modules of the various platforms servers supporting the selected devices enables a common management task to be defined once by an administrative user and applied to the selected mobile devices regardless of any platform differences. For example when MDM application needs to perform a management task or otherwise interact with a Blackberry mobile device MDM application e.g. management module may interact with the one or more agents modules or elements of the Blackberry Enterprise Server e.g. BRK toolkit and BES database . As such MDM application need not directly communicate with the Blackberry mobile devices and thus need not be configured to do so or have an administrative or end user who is trained to do so. In some embodiments if a management task is not appropriate to a selected mobile device e.g. the managed feature is not installed management module may provide a report or alert regarding such inconsistencies but may make a best effort to make an equivalent change if possible on the mobile device in question.

In an operation management module may instruct the appropriate platform server to perform the management task such that the task is carried out on the appropriate mobile devices .

In some embodiments management tasks enabled by MDM application may include activating a deactivated device i.e. unlocking a mobile device that was locked from use deactivating an activated device i.e. locking use of a mobile device wiping part or all of the contents of a mobile device for example deactivating or wiping a device running a Microsoft Mobile operating system may be executed via programmatic interfaces using for example MS Powershell which may communicate with an adapter e.g. MS Exchange 2007 SP2 adapter for Microsoft Mobile change a password on a mobile device with an out of band notification change a policy configuration of a mobile device pulling and display of the status or other information of mobile devices discover and register a mobile device i.e. discovering the mobile device and end user information storing the mobile device and end user information in MDM database and associating the mobile device with the end user bootstrap a mobile device as described herein reboot a mobile device refresh a status policy of a mobile device display the history of operations on a specific mobile device which may be integrated into the operational logs discussed herein nominate a service provider operator plan that a mobile device is billed to e.g. for when a mobile device is associated with multiple service plans such as for example one for domestic and one for international use rollback or push the previous policy for a mobile device the last policy may be stored in MDM database so as to be re deployed when desired and or other management tasks. In some instances a MDM application may include a utility to map service plans to end users or user groups so that the correct plan will be automatically assigned to the mobile device but so the mobile device can be individually overridden for use of another service plan . In some embodiments additional management tasks that may be enabled by management module or other module of MDM application such as for example migration of an end user between mobile devices wherein an end user may be switched from one mobile device to another mobile device of a different device platform for example from a Blackberry to a Moto Q a Microsoft Mobile based device upgrading an end user s mobile device wherein an end user is switched from one mobile device to another mobile device of the same device platform for example from an i mate JasJar to a Moto Q both Microsoft Mobile based or other management tasks.

In some embodiments some or all of the management tasks may be enabled by management module or other module of MDM application . In some embodiments as discussed herein in relation to performance of bootstrapping one or more management tasks may be performed using one or more agents or modules of platform servers . By using agents or module of the platform servers themselves MDM application may be able to manage mobile devices of varying types and platforms such that an administrative user need only define a management task once for multiple mobile devices of different types while platform servers may perform any platform specific processing and communication necessary to carry out the management tasks on mobile devices of different models types or platforms. In this manner MDM application provides an abstraction layer that translates between a single defined management task and multiple methods for performing that task or similar tasks on devices of differing platforms. In some embodiments one or more management tasks may be performed OTA may be pushed wirelessly .

In some embodiments management module or other module of MDM application may enable an administrative user e.g. a systems administrator to initiate management by selecting a management task first and then choosing the set of mobile devices or end users to be managed. In some embodiments management module or other module of MDM application may enable an administrative user e.g. a systems administrator to initiate management by selecting a group of one or more mobile devices or end users and then choosing the management task to be performed.

In some embodiments management module may enable an administrative user e.g. systems administrator to select a group of one or more mobile devices for which to define a management task. In some embodiments the administrative user may define a query to select the one or more mobile devices for a management task. The query may utilize one or more fields such as for example an end user owner of a mobile device a manufacturer of a mobile device a model of a mobile device a department or other enterprise role information of the end user of a mobile device an operating system version and or patch level of a mobile device a location of a mobile device a phone service provide operator or other service provider operator or other fields. In some embodiments queries may be named and or saved after creation. Administrative users may then view and use named queries to be executed.

In some embodiments wherein MDM application is integrated with other IT management applications administrative users may be able to view registered mobile devices in an asset management context including logical state information that may be provided in conjunction with an asset management application that maintains a database of hardware and software configuration information for IT devices e.g. servers desktop computers laptop computers router or other devices or IT infrastructure to serve as a detailed inventory for these devices an example of such an asset management application may include CA UDSM Asset Manager . In some embodiments the asset management context may include a display of managed mobile devices in conjunction with some or all other information technology assets in the enterprise e.g. servers desktops laptops routers databases other network infrastructure or other assets . In some embodiments one or more mobile devices may be selected from the view provided by the asset management application using query tools e.g. UDSM query tools . In some embodiments the asset management application e.g. UDSM Asset Manager may display available management tasks for the displayed mobile devices . In some embodiments the asset management application may provide a management screen for each available management task e.g. a UDSM screen . In some embodiments the asset management application e.g. the UDSM Asset Manager may provide web services for MDM application so that discovered mobile devices may be added deleted changed in the asset management application database e.g. the UDSM Asset Manager MDB . MDM application may include specific GUI screens for each of the management tasks that can be initiated from the asset management application.

In some embodiments configuration information to define the UDSM integration with MDM application may be defined in an XML file which may be edited at installation time to point MDM application to the UDSM components. In instances wherein MDM application is integrated with the UDSM application XML files may provide mobile device information for entry into the UDSM database. As a result users of the UDSM application may view the most recent information concerning mobile devices in the context of other IT devices and assets tracked by the UDSM application.

In some embodiments management module or other module of MDM application may enable administrative users to view status information configuration information and or other information regarding mobile devices . In some embodiments management module may provide one or more GUIs that display status configuration or other information regarding mobile devices . illustrates an example of an interface which is a dashboard view providing various types of information regarding multiple mobile devices managed by MDM application . Information other than that illustrated in interface and or other formats for displaying or providing information regarding mobile devices to users may be utilized. In some embodiments display of status or information of mobile devices may include an indication of the logical states of the devices so as to enable asset lifecycle management of the devices.

In some embodiments one or more of the GUIs enabled by management module or other modules of MDM application may enable an administrative user to view configuration information regarding a mobile device in manageable chunks or otherwise broken up into subsets. In some embodiments the administrative users may be able to view and perform management tasks on all managed objects on a mobile device. A managed object may include a manageable component or element of a mobile device such as a Bluetooth interface a browser configuration a password policy use of a camera element or other object. In some embodiments subsets of managed objects may be displayed similar to a Microsoft Windows XP Control Panel design which may enable each managed object to be listed and expanded for detailed view and detailed management. In some embodiments the detailed view may require a number of tabs to simplify configuration options.

In some embodiments status configuration and or other information for mobile devices may include a logical state for a mobile device a user for a mobile device an OEM manufacturer for a mobile device an OEM model for a mobile device an OEM firmware version of a mobile device an OEM platform mobile device software version for a mobile device a serial number for a mobile device for example an IMEI number a service provider operator network for a mobile device a phone number for a mobile device a designated language for a mobile device a geographic location for a mobile device and or other information for a mobile device.

As MDM application may support mobile devices from different manufacturers of different platforms and of different types the various devices will invariably have a variety of features and different open mobile alliance OMA device management DM managed objects in their OMA DM trees. In order to define configuration for a new device type an administrative user may access an updated supported device file register the mobile device into MDM application and bootstrap it. The administrative user may then set the configuration parameters of the device to be the standard for this device type. The administrative user may then setup an email account on the device may pull the configuration into the product the standard configuration pull user information in from the directory display the configuration information in a tree like structure and may edit selected objects to define the standard. The configuration may then be saves as a named configuration which may allow end users to now register like type mobile devices.

In some embodiments MDM application may provide an editor for the standard set of Nokia and Microsoft device configuration settings both Basic and advanced Settings or other configuration settings. The basic editor may provide human readable values for the settings and offer only valid values for optional settings. In some embodiments MDM application may provide an advanced editing feature that may provide parameter names and string or integer values.

In some embodiments MDM application may support management of ALL managed objects on a mobile device . In some embodiments if a mobile device device has an OMA DM object the object may be defined within the device definition. In some embodiments anytime the mobile device is displayed or selected in the status configuration information GUI all the available managed objects may be displayed.

In some embodiments billing information and other information regarding a mobile device and its associated end user may be provided from a service provider operator via an administrative interface that may be accessed by the administrative users of MDM application . For example a service desk analyst contacted by an end user regarding an improperly operating mobile device may be able to access logs and other information regarding the mobile device via MDM application to assist with diagnostics and incident resolution.

In some embodiments MDM application may provide an end user portal whereby end users of mobile devices may perform certain functions which may be considered management tasks such as for example registering a mobile device with MDM database provides for migration of mobile devices changing the end users user name and or password reset the policies of a mobile device deactivating a mobile device in some embodiments end users may be prevented from deactivating mobile devices or other functions. In some embodiments the end user portal may be accessed via portal or other computer terminal. In some embodiments the end user portal may be accessed via an end user s mobile device .

In some embodiments an end user may be authenticated prior to being granted access to the end user portal. In some embodiments the authentication may include the end user providing and MDM application verifying a username and or password. In some embodiments MDM application may maintain an audit of any management functions initiated by an end user so that they may be tracked and corrected by administrative users if necessary.

As described herein MDM application may enable policy management of mobile devices via performing one or more management tasks. Policy management may include assurance that mobile devices are configured and controlled to comply with an enterprise s policies. These policies may define specific configurations for devices to assure compliance with regulations such as Sarbanes Oxley various best practices schemes and or other guidelines or regulations whether internally or externally imposed on an enterprise . In order to ensure policy compliance an enterprise may create and maintain a specific set of policies for various computing environments and enterprise roles of end users within the organization including those to be applied to mobile devices e.g. mobile devices . When employees are provisioned mobile devices these mobile devices are configured to adhere to the specific policies for their enterprise role within the organization. MDM application enables these policies or instructions to mobile devices enforcing those policies to be pushed to mobile devices regardless of the type or platform of the mobile device. Additionally MDM application may provide audit reports or other alerts regarding mobile devices that are in and out of compliance with policies so that out of compliance mobile devices may be brought into compliance.

In some embodiments a policy may include one or more configuration sets and associated with an end user group. An end user group may include a set of one or more selected users whose associated mobile devices are to receive a policy. In some embodiments a end user group may include end users who are in the same or similar enterprise roles within the enterprise. In some embodiments other factors e.g. geography type of device or other criteria may be used to determine end users in a particular end user group. In some embodiments an end user group may only be assigned to one policy. In some embodiments a policy may only contain one configuration set for each specific type of mobile device within an end user group hence a policy may only have as many configuration sets assigned to it as there are mobile device types in the end user group . In some embodiments a configuration set may include all of the configuration information for a specific mobile device .

In some embodiments management module or other module of MDM application may provide a GUI or other interface whereby an administrative user e.g. a systems administrator may create delete clone and or edit one or more policies their associated configuration sets and or end user groups. illustrates a process which is an example of a process for defining and assigning a policy to one or more mobile devices using MDM application . In some embodiments process may include an operation wherein an administrative user may define an end user group using the GUI or other interface provided by management module . In some embodiments the administrative user may define a user group by selecting one or more end users from a list of end users whose mobile devices are registered and bootstrapped within MDM application . In some embodiments the administrative user may define a query that selects end users whose end user devices are registered and bootstrapped within MDM application . In some embodiments MDM application may map enterprise directory groups to end user group or otherwise utilize enterprise role information regarding end users to define an end user group. For example all end users in an enterprise s finance department may be set to the same policy by virtue of being grouped by MDM application as an end user group. Other methods of defining the end user and or mobile devices in an end user group may be utilized.

In an operation the administrative user may define a policy i.e. one or more configuration sets to apply to the mobile devices associated with the end users in the defined end user group. In some embodiments management module may enable the administrator to define the policy i.e. the configuration sets comprising the policy using one or more configuration set templates. In some embodiments the configuration set templates may provide fields for all of the necessary configuration information for mobile devices . As such a configuration set template may provide configuration information so as to configure all supported managed objects on specific models or types of mobile devices . In some embodiments configuration sets may include configuration for administrative settings and parameters which may only be modified by an administrative user and end user modifiable settings and parameters. In some embodiments MDM application may support a defined base reference of management objects. This base reference may be supported for a plurality of mobile device platforms e.g. Blackberry Nokia Microsoft Mobile and or other platforms . In some embodiments a base reference managed object tree may be defined separately.

In some embodiments the administrative user may utilize the GUI provided by management module to set the values of each managed object e.g. the template s default settings may be changed or the template may not provide a default setting . In some embodiments configuration set templates may be based on a generic data model that is XML based. In some embodiments management module may provide sample policy templates for low medium and high security so that administrative users may have a baseline security model from which to operate at a given level.

In an operation this set of values may then be saved as a named configuration set. If the policy includes multiple configuration sets process may return to operation where additional configuration sets may be defined.

In an operation the defined configuration set may then be assigned to the defined end user group which includes the mobile devices associated with the end users in the end user group in some instances wherein an end user is associated with two or more end user devices one or more of the end user s additional devices may be excluded from the user group an administrator may exclude these devices manually via the GUI or other interface provided by management module . As described herein in some embodiments management module may utilize one or more platform servers depending on the types of mobile devices in the end user set to assign the policy to the mobile devices in the end user group. As described herein one or more agents of the platform servers may be used to assign the policy to the mobile devices in the end user group. As disclosed herein policies may be assigned to mobile devices OTA i.e. wirelessly .

In some embodiments when assigning the configuration set to the end user group management module may check that the policy will be correct for the mobile devices within the defined user group will operate on the mobile devices within the user group in an operation . For example in some embodiments an administrative user may be prevented from assigning a Nokia device configuration set to a Microsoft Mobile based device.

In some embodiments MDM database may store the present and last policy configuration for each managed mobile device . As disclosed herein the stored configuration for the last policy may be used to be used to roll back the configuration of the device in the event of problems with a new policy change.

In some embodiments management module may enable scans scheduled or ad hoc of mobile devices to determine if devices are configured to be compliant with their assigned policies. These scans may occur OTA i.e. wirelessly in an operation of process and may utilize one or more agents of platforms servers to enable scans of mobile devices from different platforms. In some embodiments these compliance scans may essentially challenge mobile devices to report their configuration settings and compare the reported setting to stored information regarding what the settings should be e.g. the last policy pushed to the mobile device .

In some embodiments at the completion of each scan job a report or alert regarding mobile devices that are out of compliance or non contactable may be provided to an administrative user. In some embodiments an administrative user may be able to set an option for scans that requires immediate assignment of the proper policy to a mobile device that is deemed out of compliance. In some embodiments the management module may enable an attribute to be assigned to an end user and or an end user group such that the end users in the group may be exempt from the above automatic reinstatement of its policy if out of compliance. In some embodiments when exempted devices are scanned and found to be out of compliance they may be listed in the above referenced report as out of compliance and exempt .

In some embodiments specific policy rules may be implemented by MDM application for mobile devices of a certain platform. For example in some embodiments when a Blackberry device is registered a blank policy may be automatically pushed to the device. In some embodiments a blank policy may be pushed to mobile devices of other platforms when those mobile devices are registered.

In some embodiments MDM application may enable an administrative user to initiate and direct management functions for groups of one or more mobile devices so as to precisely control the order timing infrastructure load and other parameters of management tasks. As such management module may enable administrative users e.g. systems administrators to submit management tasks to MDM application as scheduled jobs. MDM application may then contact each mobile device to which a management task applies and initiate the task. The mobile device to which a management task was submitted may complete the task and send back a response so as to inform the administrative user that the task has been completed. In this manner the administrative user has information regarding the completion of a management task that can be used in scheduling additional management tasks or used for other purposes.

In some embodiments some mobile devices may not be reachable e.g. out of range platform server malfunction etc. and or may have problems with the task. As such the administrative user may be provided with a report regarding the progress of the submitted jobs management tasks i.e. which have been completed successfully percent complete number of mobile devices on which the task has been completed out of total mobile devices to which task was sent which have failed percent failed number of mobile devices on which the task failed out of total mobile devices to which task was sent which mobile devices are not contactable which tasks are yet to go or other information .

In some embodiments when an administrative user selects a group of devices for a management task the administrative user may schedule when they want the task to be commenced immediately or at a specific day and time . The management task job may be assigned a unique job name or other unique identifier by management module

In some embodiments management module may provide a GUI or other interface which may enable administrative users e.g. a systems administrator to view a list of scheduled tasks in a job queue which may be scheduled tasks for all managed mobile devices or a subset thereof including single mobile devices the progress of each task which have been completed successfully percent complete number of mobile devices on which the task has been completed out of total mobile devices to which task was sent which have failed percent failed number of mobile devices on which the task failed out of total mobile devices to which task was sent which mobile devices are not contactable which tasks are yet to go or other information a list of tasks from a preceding time period e.g. all tasks from the last 3 months or other time period or other information. In some embodiments the administrative user may be able to request that a management task be rerun or retried at a scheduled time for any management task job that has been unsuccessfully completed.

In some embodiment MDM application may enable an administrative user e.g. a systems administrator to control the management tasks in the job queue of MDM application . In some embodiments the administrative user may view the contents of the queue e.g. the tasks jobs in the queue delete an individual task job in the queue flush the queue of jobs e.g. cancel all tasks jobs in the queue or perform other functions related to the job task queue.

In some embodiments an enterprise may utilize other information technology IT applications. As described above the enterprise also utilizes enterprise directory for authentication and authorization to its network. As any additional application e.g. MDM application should comply with existing enterprise policies and use the existing Authentication Authorization Audit framework in place for the existing IT applications MDM application may use enterprise directory for its authentication and authorization. In some embodiments MDM application may utilize or cooperate with additional information technology security applications such as for example eTrust IAM Toolkit from CA which may provide the basis for the security framework of MDM application e.g. to provide security authentication authorization audit features . In some embodiments the additional IT security applications may provide security related audit logs associated with security that may be sent to still other IT management applications.

In some embodiments end users and administrative users access e.g. via portal end user portals or other access points to MDM application may be password protected. In some embodiment end users and or administrative users may change their password with the aid of a systems administrator. In some embodiments one or more rules may define the parameters for passwords used for access to MDM application such as for example rules defining the length of a password rules requiring for numbers in a password rules requiring special characters in a password password aging a number of consecutive failed log ons before user disabled hints for password syntax for user on password selection and or other rules.

In some embodiments additional access security functions may be used with MDM application such as for example logging the time and or date when a user logged in last.

In some embodiments access control module or other module of MDM application may enable the one or more security access functions described herein including password rules and user id password mediated access control . For example in some embodiments an administrative user e.g. a service desk analyst may only be able to view and interact with mobile device and user objects of specific groups of end users. This mechanism enables the operating enterprise to partition the user population into specific geographies or other organizational units and only allow specific service desk analysis access to the specified partitioned populations.

MDM application may support both small and large enterprises. In some instances large enterprises may be widely distributed geographically and may utilize local administrative users dealing with subsets of end users. As such MDM application may be configured such that the management of devices can be decentralized to local centers and administrative users operating at those centers may only be able to manage local mobile devices .

In some embodiments access control module may utilize a separate IT security application e.g. eTrust IAM Toolkit and the access control definitions dictating access partition of data may be compatible with the separate IT security application for example the separate IT security application may enable access control definitions to be defined by a node in enterprise directory where the service desk analysts may only be able to view and operate on end user information of users below the specified directory node e.g. a certain service desk analyst may only operate on end users in Canada .

In some embodiments access control module may provide a GUI or other interface as configuration tools to nominate a partition of data service desk analysts.

In some embodiments MDM application may be available on a 24 7 basis for support management of mobile devices . In some embodiments MDM application may require an offline maintenance slot of not more than an hour each month or 99.9 availability. When not off line for maintenance MDM application may be able to initiate all management functions. As such MDM application may support database replication features standby server components or other features for ensuring availability.

In some embodiments MDM application may include and or support a script or process that may be run via command line or other interface e.g. a GUI or otherwise be scheduled to run to backup all databases and any configuration files needed in the event that MDM application system needs to be restored. In some embodiments MDM application may include or support a script or process that may enable an administrative user e.g. a systems administrator to restore a backup file to rebuild or restore an element of system to a known state.

In some embodiments MDM application may include one or more utilities or modules enabling administrative users to manage the files on the an OTA content server or other content server used with the systems and methods of the invention.

In some embodiments MDM application may include a mechanism so that the enterprise may update MDM application by uploading new device definitions or other files. In some embodiments the code e.g. object code or source code of MDM application or one or more modules may be updated and or patched using patch and update procedures.

In some embodiments MDM application may be scalable whereby multiple MDM servers may be utilized as disclosed herein to improve OTA management performance. In some embodiment system e.g. MDM application MDM server MDM database and or other elements may include a distributed architecture such that elements components may be moved to specific hardware platforms for administration and performance reasons. In some embodiments wherein multiple MDM databases are utilized in a distributed fashion local MDM databases may only manage mobile devices that are defined as local e.g. by a query to enterprise directory or otherwise defined as local which would define the scope of discovery and enterprise directory updates.

As disclosed herein MDM application may support multiple MDM servers so that the management load can be distributed if necessary. In some embodiments a load sharing algorithm may be used and in some embodiments may be based on the length of the work queues for each MDM server . In some embodiments each MDM server may be able to run concurrent sessions resulting in completing a predefined number of transactions of a predefined type over an hour in some embodiments the predefined number and transaction types may depend on the enterprise size needs and or other factors . In some embodiments all device or client initiated sessions may be included in this count. As used herein a transaction may include a discrete connection between one mobile device and an MDM server . In some embodiments a set of design guidelines may be written to assist administrative users to scale the product geographically and by adding additional MDM servers .

In some embodiments MDM application may include a monitoring module which may monitor connections at an application level between the various components of system and other elements of environment . In some embodiments the monitored connections may include connections between MDM application and MDM servers OTA content servers MDM database platform servers enterprise directory portal or other portions of the IT infrastructure of the enterprise. In the event of an error or timeout MDM application may generate an alert which may be sent to an administrative user e.g. a service desk analyst and or other components of the enterprise s IT infrastructure.

As disclosed herein in some embodiments MDM application may generate alerts of different types such as for example alerts related to the health of MDM servers platform servers or the health or problematic status of other elements utilized by the invention. For example in some embodiments if a crucial server or other element is subject to a number of unsuccessful logons that exceeds a predetermined threshold the an alert may be sent to one or more administrative users. In another example if the status monitoring mentioned herein indicates that the connection between one or more elements used in the invention is lost then an alert may be sent to one or more administrative users. In some embodiments these alerts or other alerts or reports disclosed herein may be provided to one or more administrative users via email via a GUI or other interface supported by MDM application or via other methods. For example in some embodiments a GUI may provide an indication of new alerts.

In some embodiments an administrative user e.g. a systems administrator may have access to configuration files for MDM application so as to maintain the operational status of system . In some embodiments this maintenance may include starting stopping rebooting MDM servers viewing system audit transaction logs reports configuring external event logging with eSCC UEC etc. configuring plugin connections configuring enterprise directory connections configuring licensing with IT infrastructure applications or other maintenance.

In some embodiments MDM application may provide support for multiple language versions double byte Unicode etc .

In some embodiments MDM application may enable administrative users to define the features mobile devices . Administrative users may further setup a mobile device tree and define each leave of the tree. In some embodiments each mobile device manufacturer may utilize their own proprietary management objects on the device tree e.g. as in SNMP each device manufacturer has their own MIB . MDM application may enable administrative users to define a definitions file to extend management capability. For example when Nokia releases a new series of mobile devices that have extended management capability offered through a device management client an administrative user may write a definitions files for the extended management capability without having to ship a service pack for MDM server . In some embodiments these definitions may be able to be downloaded from a provider e.g. a vendor of MDM application or otherwise acquired to install in MDM application . Once installed the new mobile devices will be supported by MDM application . In some embodiments a list of supported mobile devices may be maintained in an XML file or file of another format. In some embodiments an administrative user may be able to edit this file to indicate only those devices used by an enterprise. In some embodiments templates for bootstrapping files or configuration sets for newly supported files may be downloaded from a provider or otherwise acquired or created.

In some embodiments monitoring module or other module of MDM application may enable audits of operational tasks of MDM application so as to diagnose performance and security issues. As such monitoring module may provide an audit log of all operations of MDM application for analysis and diagnosis. The audit log may define all operations of users administrative users and end users of MDM application . In some embodiments the audit log may include a date time user function function parameters of each operation or other information. In some embodiments monitoring module may provide a GUI or other interface to enable administrative users to view and sort the log file by date time user function or other criteria. The resultant filtered log file may be provided to administrative users as a report. In some embodiments the audit logs may include information regarding OTA management tasks or other management tasks. In some embodiments an administrative user may be able to define the size and number of the log files. In some embodiments monitoring module may generate an alert to one or more administrative users when audit logs are 80 full or other predetermined amount full . In some embodiments an administrative user may define a strategy in the event of a full audit file such as for example sending an alert that all auditing has terminated which may otherwise not affect MDM application performance continuing auditing by overwriting the oldest audit log or other strategy.

As disclosed herein one or more GUIs or other interfaces may be provided supported by MDM application and its component modules 

In some embodiments as disclosed herein MDM application may provide support one or more reports such as for example reports regarding end users and or mobile devices which have no associated policy are not registered or are not bootstrapped reports regarding policy deviations for a given time period e.g. total out of compliance top 10 reasons that devices are out of compliance by percentage e.g. the largest reason at 56 that devices are out of compliance is Bluetooth Enabled followed by unregistered software at 23 etc. reports regarding new policies defined since a certain date reports regarding policy association changes since a certain date reports regarding policies having a particular configuration e.g. showing all policies with Bluetooth enabled mobile devices an executive monthly summary that may include for example total devices under management which may be sorted or filtered by end user roles or departments mobile device types service providers operators or otherwise sorted or filtered of devices within compliance of devices out of compliance which may be sorted or filtered by end user roles or departments mobile device types service providers operators or otherwise sorted or filtered total number of devices added in a time period which may be sorted or filtered by end user roles or departments mobile device types service providers operators or otherwise sorted or filtered total number of devices retired in a time period which may be sorted or filtered by end user roles or departments mobile device types service providers operators or otherwise sorted or filtered and or other reports.

In some embodiments management module or other module of MDM application may enable licensing management of product software or other licenses related to mobile devices . In some embodiments management module may enable tracking of the number of mobile devices that licensed from a particular licensor this quantity may then be compared to the number of registered mobile devices in MDM database to check for compliance with the license . In some embodiments management module may provide administrative users with a GUI or other interface that defines a present maximum number of mobile devices allowed by a certain license and a present total number of registered mobile devices applicable to the license. The administrative user may then be able to change the license parameters using this GUI using a new license key. In some embodiments MDM server may operate on any size processor and a key that identify the largest tier will be used to generate license keys.

In some embodiments monitoring module or other module of MDM application may perform a scan of any data stores or tracking systems utilized by platform servers to track their respectively supported mobile devices e.g. a scan of a BES database to track Blackberry mobile devices . In this manner MDM application may maintain an inventory and status of all devices using the tracking and storage systems of the individual platform servers thus removing the need to manually interact with the mobile devices themselves which further provides operability with a plurality of mobile device platforms. In some embodiments this scan may be preformed on a predetermined interval e.g. daily or other interval or in an ad hoc manner. In some embodiments a report of the changes each from the previous scan may be provided to an administrative user. The scan may include an inventory of each mobile device for a certain platform including a device end user the end user s enterprise role and or department a phone number associated with the mobile device a mobile device type a service provider operator associated with the mobile device an IMEI or other identification number associated with a mobile device a identifier or description of the policy or configuration set applied to a mobile device a platform server mail server and or other server associated with a mobile device any platform specific agents used with a mobile device and any version information e.g. operating system or other software version information associated with a mobile device.

In some embodiments monitoring module or other module of MDM application may generate device status alerts for each mobile device such as for example loss of connectivity email timeout policy timeout last contact time or other status.

In some embodiments a web services module or other module of MDM application may provide web services to one or more platform servers so as to enable web services and web based interaction between platform servers and MDM application . In some embodiments web services module may be loaded on and or run on platform servers . In some embodiments web services module may provide a GUI or other interface enabling administrative users e.g. a systems administrator to define a web services connection between platform servers and MDM application . The GUI or other interface may also be able to provide status information regarding one or more platform servers 

In some embodiments wherein mobile devices support email functionality an administrative user may be able to automatically test end to end email connectivity of mobile devices via a Email ping function provided by MDM application that includes a crafted test email. The email ping function may provide help messages to assist the administrative user in diagnosing the results of the ping. The email ping function may use a option in the email message to receive an returned email to confirm delivery at a mobile device.

In some embodiments monitoring module or other module of MDM application may detect inactivity of mobile devices over some specified time. This function enables immediate deactivation of mobile devices or work flow processes that enable administrative users to choose to deactivate individual mobile devices .

While the operations of the methods or processes described herein may have been provided in a certain order orders of operations may be used within the scope of the invention. Furthermore in some embodiments more or less of the provided operations may be used within the scope of the invention.

In some embodiments the invention may provide a computer readable medium having computer readable instructions thereon for instructing one or more processors to perform some or all of the process operations or other features and functions described herein.

While particular embodiments of the invention have been described it is to be understood that modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Other embodiments uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in art from the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

