---

title: Systems and methods for treating medical conditions by stimulation of medial thalamic region
abstract: A system for treating medical conditions by neuromodulation of one or more target sites in the nervous system. In certain embodiments, at least one of the target sites is the medial thalamic region, including the intralaminar nucleus and the adjacent white and grey matter. In certain embodiments, where there is more than one target site, the other target sites is elsewhere in the nervous system, including the globus pallidus interna, subthalamic nucleus, corpus callosum, cerebellum, cerebral cortex (including the premotor cortex, motor cortex, and sensory cortex), ventral striatum, lateral thalamus, substantia nigra, and pedunculopontine nuclei. The medical conditions include movement disorders or improvement of movement function, stroke, neuropsychiatric or neuropsychologic disorders, neurodevelopmental disorders, and pain. Methods for treating medical conditions by neuromodulation of the intralaminar nuclei either alone or in combination with another target site(s) is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09539425&OS=09539425&RS=09539425
owner: Cornell Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 09539425
owner_city: Ithaca
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071012
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 851 296 filed 13 Oct. 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to methods of treating medical conditions by electrical and or chemical neuromodulation of target sites in the nervous system.

Neuromodulation involves an array of therapeutic approaches applied to the brain cranial nerves spinal cord and associated nerves and neural structures in the human body to treat various human disorders. Neuromodulation can involve lesioning electrical stimulation modulation and or chemical stimulation modulation including gene therapy and administration of stem cells. Electrical stimulation of neural tissue is becoming an increasingly preferred form of therapy for certain neurological conditions and disorders where existing therapies generate intolerable side effects require repeated administration of treatment or are simply ineffective in a subset of patients. Electrical stimulation provides distinct advantages over surgical lesioning techniques since electrical stimulation is a reversible and adjustable procedure that provides continuous benefits as the patient s disease progresses and the patient s symptoms evolve.

Currently for deep brain targets electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus and the globus pallidus interna is approved for treatment of Parkinson s disease and electrical stimulation of the ventral intermediate nucleus is approved for treatment of essential tremor. However there remains a need for other forms of neuromodulation to treat these and other disorders.

In one aspect the present invention provides a system for treating a condition selected from the group consisting of a movement disorder or improvement of movement function stroke neuropsychiatric or neuropsychologic disorder neurodevelopmental disorder and pain wherein the system comprises a a first therapy delivery device for positioning at a first target site wherein the first target site is the medial thalamic region and b a controller in communication with the first therapy delivery device for enabling the first therapy delivery device to deliver a stimulus to the first target site.

In another aspect the present invention provides a system for treating a psychiatric condition comprising a a first therapy delivery device for positioning at an intralaminar nuclei b a second therapy delivery device for positioning at a target site in the nervous system wherein the target site is the pre frontal cortex frontal lobe dorsolateral frontal cortex medial frontal cortex temporal cortex orbitofrontal cortex subgenual cingulated cortex amygdala nucleus accumbens or ventral striatum and c a controller in communication with both the first therapy delivery device and the second therapy delivery device wherein the controller delivers stimuli through the first therapy delivery device and second therapy delivery device.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides a method of treating a condition selected from the group consisting of a movement disorder or improvement of movement function stroke neuropsychiatric or neuropsychologic disorder neurodevelopmental disorder and pain wherein the method comprises delivering a first stimulus to a first target site wherein the first target site is the intralaminar nuclei. In certain embodiments the method may further comprise delivering a second stimulus to a second target site wherein the second target site is not the intralaminar nuclei.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides a method of treating a psychiatric condition comprising a delivering a first stimulus to the intralaminar nuclei and b delivering a second stimulus to a target site in the nervous system wherein the target site is the pre frontal cortex frontal lobe dorsolateral frontal cortex medial frontal cortex temporal cortex orbitofrontal cortex subgenual cingulated cortex amygdala nucleus accumbens or ventral striatum.

In one aspect the present invention provides a system for treating medical conditions including neurologic and central nervous system CNS conditions by neuromodulation of one or more target sites in the nervous system. In certain embodiments at least one of the target sites is the medial thalamic region including the intralaminar nucleus and the adjacent white and grey matter. The target site may include a single intralaminar nucleus or to any combination of intralaminar nuclei. Referring to showing a thalamus the intralaminar nuclei are a small set of nuclei located in the paramedian thalamus dividing each of the lobes of the thalamus along a Y shaped vertical planar geometry which cuts through the posterior to anterior axis of each lobe . Within the intralaminar nuclei are the anterior midline and posterior subgroups. The anterior subgroups include the central lateral CL and paracentralis regions. The posterior subgroups include the centromedian parafascicularis complex Cm Pf . The midline and other related subgroups include the centre medial CeM nuclei and the nucleus paraventricularis Pv . Referring to these structures and their X medial lateral Y anterior posterior and Z superior inferior stereotactic coordinates with respect to the anterior commissure AC and the posterior commissure PC are identified.

Thalamic neurons can be distinguished into two chemically defined classes based on immunoreactivity to calcium binding proteins. All thalamic nuclei contain calbindin positive matrix cells while only some nuclei also contain parvalbumin positive core cells. Parvalbumin positive cells project in a topographically ordered fashion to middle or granular layers of a single cortical field. In contrast calbindin positive matrix cells have wider and more diffuse projections terminating in the superficial layers of the cortex. Within the intralaminar nuclei there are regions in which core and matrix cells co exist and others in which they are largely segregated. For example the Cm Pf nuclei contain an overwhelming population of parvalbumin positive core cells and lack calbindin immunoreactivity whereas calbindin positive matrix cells predominate in the CL. Together the thalamic matrix cells are positioned to influence long range cortico cortico communication and in conjunction with core cells provide a co incidence detection system to organize global cortico thalamic synchrony.

As used herein the term treating a medical condition encompasses therapeutically regulating preventing improving alleviating the symptoms of reducing the effects of and or diagnosing the medical condition. As used herein the term medical condition encompasses any condition disease disorder function abnormality or deficit influenced by the neurologic system. The systems and methods of the present invention can be used to treat more than one medical condition concurrently.

Non limiting examples of medical conditions that can be treated according to the systems and methods of the present invention include genetic skeletal immunological vascular or hematological muscular or connective tissue neurological ocular auditory or vestibular dermatological endocrinological olfactory cardiovascular genitourinary psychological gastrointestinal respiratory pulmonary neoplastic or inflammatory medical conditions. Further the medical condition can be the result of any etiology including vascular ischemic thrombotic embolic infectious including bacterial viral parasitic fungal abscessal neoplastic drug induced metabolic immunological collagenic traumatic surgical idiopathic endocrinological allergic degenerative neurogenerative craniofacial congenital or abnormal malformational causes.

The present invention also encompasses enhancing the therapeutic effects of other therapies such as methods and systems working in conjunction with a pharmaceutical agent or other therapies to augment enhance improve or facilitate other therapies adjunctive therapies as well as reducing minimize and counteracting side effects complications and adverse reactions for any therapies involved in treating the above mentioned medical conditions. For example the methods and systems of the present invention may be used in a patient with Parkinson s disease who is undergoing drug treatment. By using the methods and systems of the present invention in conjunction with the drug treatment the drug dosage can be reduced.

With respect to treating neurological medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the nervous system such as for example the brain including the cerebellum cerebello thalamo cortical pathways cortico ponto cereballar pathways brain stem pons midbrain medulla the spinal cord peripheral nerves peripheral ganglia and nerve plexuses. Non limiting examples of neurological conditions include Alzheimer s disease epilepsy multiple sclerosis ALS Guillan Barre stroke cerebral palsy intracerebral hemorrhage dementia vertigo tinnitus diplopia cerebral vasospasm aneurysm atriovenous malformation brain malformations Parkinson s disorder multi system atrophy olivopontocerebellar degeneration familial tremor dystonia including cervical dystonia torticollis facial dystonia blepharospasms spasmodic dysphonia radiculopathy neuropathy sleep disorders disorders of temperature regulation in the body and extremities postherpetic neuralgia involving the face head body or extremities. The neuropathy may be caused by fracture crush injury compressive injury repetitive movement injury diabetes trauma alcohol infection or hereditary. The sleep disorder may be sleep apnea restless leg syndrome narcolepsy snoring insomnia and drowsiness.

In some instances the medical condition may be a movement disorder which include or manifest as ataxia akinesia athetosis rigidity spasms ballismus hemiballismus bradykinesia dystonia chorea including Huntington s disease multiple system atrophies e.g. Shy Drager syndrome myoclonus Parkinson s disease progressive supranuclear palsy restless leg syndrome and periodic limb movement disorder tics Tourette s syndrome tremor e.g. essential tremor resting tremor Wilson disease or tardive dyskinesia. In some instances the medical condition may be stroke due to cerebrovascular disease or a stroke due to other causes. The stroke may be ischemic or hemorrhagic.

With respect to treating cardiovascular medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the cardiovascular system such as for example the heart and aorta. Non limiting examples of cardiovascular conditions include post infarction rehabilitation valvular disease myocardial infarction arrhythmia heart failure angina microvascular ischemia myocardial contractility disorder cardiomyopathy hypertension orthostatic hypotension dysautonomia syncope vasovagal reflex carotid sinus hypersensitivity and cardiac structural abnormalities such as septal defects and wall aneurysms. The cardiomyopathy may be caused by hypertension alcohol or by a congenital cause. The hypertension may be essential primary secondary or renal.

With respect to treating psychiatric or psychologic medical conditions non limiting examples of such medical conditions include Tourette s syndrome autism mental retardation stress anxiety apathy arousal depression bipolar disorder mania schizophrenia a personality disorder a phobia hallucinations delusions psychosis addictions and other affective disorders. The addiction may be to substances or behavior. The substance may be alcohol cigarettes or drugs.

With respect to treating gastrointestinal medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the gastrointestinal system such as for example the mouth esophagus stomach small intestine large intestine rectum liver gall bladder bile ducts and pancreas. Non limiting examples of gastrointestinal medical conditions include hepatic failure hepatitis cirrhosis dumping syndrome cirrhosis gastric or duodenal ulcer irritable bowel syndrome inflammatory bowel disease colitis diverticulosis diverticulitis emesis hyper emesis gravidum bowel incontinence constipation diarrhea abdominal cramps gastro esophageal reflux esophageal dysmotility gastric dysmotility cholecystitis gall stones pancreatic insufficiency gas bloating and gastritis.

With respect to treating respiratory pulmonary medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the respiratory system such as for example the trachea bronchus bronchioles alveoli lungs and capillaries. Non limiting examples of respiratory medical conditions include reactive airway disease asthma emphysema COPD silicosis sleep apnea and cystic fibrosis.

The systems of the present invention comprise one or more therapy delivery devices that can be positioned at target sites to deliver a stimulus to the target sites. At least one of the target sites is the intralaminar nuclei. In certain instances the system may comprise a single therapy delivery device. In other instances the system may comprise two or more therapy delivery devices wherein each may be directed to a different target site. Where there is more than one target site the other target sites may be elsewhere in the nervous system including the globus pallidus interna subthalamic nucleus corpus callosum cerebellum cerebral cortex including the premotor cortex motor cortex and sensory cortex ventral striatum lateral thalamus substantia nigra and pedunculopontine nuclei.

In certain embodiments systems are provided to treat movement disorders by stimulating an intralaminar nucleus and the globus pallidus interna and or the subthalamic nucleus. In certain embodiments systems are provided to treat stroke e.g. during rehabilitation therapy by stimulating an intralaminar nucleus and the corpus callosum the cerebellum and or the cortex. In certain embodiments systems are provided to treat psychiatric disorders by stimulating an intralaminar nucleus and the visual cortex and or the ventral striatum. In certain embodiments the psychiatric disorder is depression and the target sites may be a site in the intralaminar nucleus pre frontal cortex frontal lobe dorsolateral frontal cortex medial frontal cortex temporal cortex orbitofrontal cortex subgenual cingulated cortex amygdala nucleus accumbens or ventral striatum. In other embodiments the psychiatric disorder is an attention mood anxiety apathy arousal connectivity or addiction disorder and the target sites are an intralaminar nucleus and the ventral striatum.

The therapy delivery device may be used to deliver electrical stimulation bioactive agents e.g. drugs for neuromodulation or combinations thereof. As such the therapy delivery device may have an electrode a catheter or drug port for delivering a bioactive agent or combinations thereof. Where the therapy delivery device is an electrode the stimulus being delivered are electrical signals. In some cases the electrical signals are of sufficient strength to induce a neurophysiological response but not enough to cause tissue damage. In other cases the electrical signals may be of sufficient strength to cause tissue damage e.g. tissue lesioning or ablation . Where the therapy delivery device is a drug port the stimulus being delivered are bioactive agents e.g. providing chemical signals . The therapy delivery device is connected to a controller via an electrical stimulation lead for an electrode or an infusion catheter for a drug port . The therapy delivery device has a configuration that allows the therapy deliver device to maximize contact with and optimally deliver stimulus to the target site.

In embodiments where the therapy delivery device is an electrode the electrical stimulation lead may have a lead proximal end a lead body and a lead distal end. The lead distal end may comprise at least one electrode. The at least one electrode can be a plurality of electrodes. The electrodes at the lead distal end can be either monopolar bipolar or multipolar and can operate as a cathode or an anode. The electrode can be composed of but not limited to activated iridium rhodium titanium or platinum and combinations of said materials. The electrode may be coated with a thin surface layer of iridium oxide titanium nitride or other surface modifications to enhance electrical sensitivity. The stimulation lead can also comprise carbon doped silicon or silicon nitride. Each lead distal end can be provided with a biocompatible fabric collar or band about the electrode periphery to allow it to be more readily sutured or glued into place for electrodes to be secured in this manner . The stimulation lead may be placed permanently or temporarily in the target site to provide chronic or acute neuromodulation of the target site.

The controller is used to operate and supply power to the therapeutic delivery device and enable the therapy delivery device to deliver a stimulus such as an electrical signal or a chemical signal to the target site. The controller may be powered by a battery an external power supply a fuel cell or a battery pack for external use. The controller may also be integral with the therapeutic delivery device such as a single unit stimulation lead power generator . When the therapeutic delivery device is a stimulation lead the controller may change the output to the electrode by way of polarity pulse width amplitude frequency voltage current intensity duration wavelength and or waveform. When the therapeutic delivery device is a drug port the controller may change its output such that a pump pressure source or proportionally controlled orifice increases or decreases the rate at which the pharmaceutical is delivered to the target site. The controller may operate any number or combination of electrodes and pharmaceutical delivery devices. For example the controller may be connected to stimulation leads and a peristaltic pump for delivering a pharmaceutical to the target site near the stimulation leads. The controller may be implanted within the patient or it may be positioned by leads outside of the patient. A portion of the control system may be external to the patient s body for use by the attending physician to program the implanted controller and to monitor its performance. This external portion may include a programming wand which communicates with the implanted controller by means of telemetry via an internal antenna to transmit parameter values as may be selectively changed from time to time by subsequent programming selected at the programmer unit such as a computer. The programming wand also accepts telemetry data from the controller to monitor the performance of the therapy delivery device.

In embodiments where the controller enables a stimulation lead to deliver an electrical signal to the target site the electrical signal may be episodic continuous phasic in clusters intermittent upon demand by the patient or medical personnel or preprogrammed to respond to a sensor. Preferably the oscillating electrical signal is operated at a voltage between about 0.1 microvolts to about 50 V. More preferably the oscillating electrical signal is operated at a voltage between about 1 V to about 15 V. For microstimulation it is preferable to stimulate within the range of 0.1 microvolts to about 1 V. Preferably the electric signal source is operated at a frequency range between about 2 Hz to about 10 00 Hz. More preferably the electric signal source is operated at a frequency range between about 2 Hz to about 200 Hz. Preferably the pulse width of the oscillating electrical signal is between about 10 microseconds to about 1 000 microseconds. More preferably the pulse width of the oscillating electrical signal is between about 50 microseconds to about 2000 microseconds. Preferably the application of the oscillating electrical signal is monopolar when the stimulation lead is monopolar bipolar when the stimulation lead is bipolar and multipolar when the stimulation lead is multipolar. The waveform may be for example biphasic square wave sine wave or other electrically safe and feasible combinations. In some cases where the therapy delivery device provides both electrical stimulation and chemical modulation the pulses single or paired may be coordinated with the chemical infusion. In certain instances the waveform may be neurally coded waveforms that imitate the electrical signals that are naturally produced by the body. In some cases neurally coded waveforms may be pre recorded such as those obtained by in vivo recordings from human subjects or animals as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 522 029 filed 15 Sep. 2006 and Ser. No. 11 404 006 filed 13 Apr. 2006 both entitled System and Method for Providing a Waveform for Stimulating Biological Tissue. In some cases the pre recorded waveforms may be obtained from a healthy or at least partially functioning thalamus such as the contralateral thalamus from the same patient or a thalamus from another person. Using additional stimulation leads electrical stimulation may be applied to multiple target sites. The controller may coordinate or synchronize the electrical stimulation of the multiple target sites. For example the electrical stimulation to multiple target sites may be delivered simultaneously sequentially in an alternating fashion or with time delay.

In embodiments where the controller enables a drug port to deliver a bioactive agent such as a chemical signal to the target site a bioactive agent may be delivered to the target site prior to concurrent with subsequent to or instead of electrical neuromodulation. The bioactive agent may be a neurotransmitter mimick neuropeptide hormone pro hormone antagonist agonist reuptake inhibitor or degrading enzyme thereof peptide protein therapeutic agent amino acid nucleic acid stem cell or any combination thereof and may be delivered by a slow release matrix or drug pump. The delivery of the bioactive agent maybe continuous intermittent chronic phasic or episodic.

The present invention also provides systems for treating medical conditions incorporating a closed loop feedback mechanism. Specifically in such embodiments the system comprises a therapy delivery device for applying a therapy signal which can be an electrical signal or a chemical signal to the intralaminar nuclei. The system further comprises a sensor for detecting a bodily activity associated with the medical condition and for generating a sensor signal. The system also includes a controller in communication with the therapy delivery device for activating the therapy delivery device to initiate application of the therapy signal to the target site or to adjust application of the therapy signal to the target site in response to the sensor signal. The bodily activity to be detected by the sensor is any characteristic or function of the body including bodily organs such as mechanical motion electrical or chemical activity and includes for example gastrointestinal function including gastric acid intestinal motility and peristalsis temperature respiratory function heart rate capillary pressure venous pressure perfusion blood gases such as carbon dioxide including partial pressure of carbon dioxide oxygenation including blood oxygenation levels oxygen saturation levels partial pressure of oxygen oxygen consumption oxygen pressure water pressure nitrogen pressure carbon dioxide pressure in the tissue circulation including blood and lymphatic electrolyte levels in the circulation tissue diffusion or metabolism of various agents and molecules such as glucose neurotransmitter levels body temperature regulation blood pressure blood viscosity metabolic activity cerebral blood flow pH levels vital signs galvanic skin responses perspiration electrocardiogram electroencephalogram action potential conduction chemical production body movement including limb movement posture and gait response to external stimulation cognitive activity dizziness pain flushing motor activity including muscle tone visual activity speech balance diaphragmatic movement chest wall expansion concentration of certain biological molecules substances in the body such as for example glucose liver enzymes electrolytes hormones creatinine medications concentration of various cells platelets or bacteria. These bodily activities can be measured utilizing a variety of methods including but not limited to chemical analysis mechanical measurements laser and fiber optic analysis.

In specific embodiments the system may further comprise one or more sensors. The sensors may be located on or within the body and detect mechanical motion electrical and or chemical activity. Such activity may be detected by sensors located within the target site proximal to the target site or distal to the target site whether in or outside the nervous system. Examples of electrical activity detected by sensors located within or proximal to the target site include sensors that measure neuronal electrical activity such as the electrical activity characteristic of the signaling stages of neurons i.e. synaptic potentials trigger actions action potentials and neurotransmitter release at the target site and by afferent and efferent pathways and sources that project to and from or communicate with the target site. For example the sensors can measure at any signaling stage neuronal activity of any of the extensive connections of the target site. In particular the sensors may detect the rate and pattern of the neuronal electrical activity to determine the electrical signal to be provided to the lead. Examples of chemical activity detected by sensors located within or proximal to the target site include sensors that measure neuronal activity such as the modulation of neurotransmitters hormones pro hormones neuropeptides peptides proteins electrolytes or small molecules by the target site and modulation of these substances by afferent and efferent pathways and sources that project to and from the target sites or communicate with the target sites. With respect to detecting electrical or chemical activity in the nervous system such sensors could be placed in the brain the spinal cord cranial nerves and or spinal nerves. For example the sensors could be placed in the intralaminar nuclei to sense neuronal electrical activity. In certain embodiments relating to treating movement disorders the activity in the intralaminar nuclei is sensed and the globus pallidus and or subthalamic nucleus is stimulated. Sensors placed in the brain are preferably placed in a layer wise manner. For example a sensor could be placed on the scalp i.e. electroencephalogram in the subgaleal layer on the skull in the dura mater in the sub dural layer and in the parenchyma i.e. in the frontal lobe occipital lobe parietal lobe temporal lobe to achieve increasing specificity of electrical and chemical activity detection. The sensors could measure the same types of chemical and electrical activity as the sensors placed within or proximal to the target site as described above. With respect to detecting mechanical motion electrical or chemical activity by sensors located outside the nervous system such sensors may be placed in venous structures and various organs or tissues of other body systems such as the endocrine system musculoskeletal system respiratory system circulatory system urinary system integumentary system and digestive system or such sensors may detect signals from these various body systems. For example the sensor may be an external sensor such as a pulse oximeter or an external blood pressure heart and respiratory rate detector. In another example the sensors may be motion detectors attached to a body limb for detecting tremors abnormal gait or other abnormal movement. All the above mentioned sensing systems may be employed together or any combination of less than all sensors may be employed together.

After the sensor s detect the relevant bodily activity associated with the medical condition according to the systems of the present invention the sensors generate a sensor signal. The sensor signal is processed by a sensor signal processor which in this embodiment is part of the controller. The controller generates a response to the sensor signal by activating the therapy delivery device to initiate application of the therapy signal or to adjust application of the therapy signal to the target site. The therapy deliver device then applies the therapy signal to the target site. In embodiments where the therapy delivery device is a stimulation lead and the therapy signal is an electrical signal activating the stimulation lead to adjust application of the electrical signal includes terminating increasing decreasing or changing the rate or pattern of a pulsing parameter of the electrical stimulation and the electrical signal can be the respective termination increase decrease or change in rate or pattern of the respective pulsing parameter. In embodiments where the therapy delivery device is a drug port and the therapy signal is a chemical signal activating the drug port to adjust application of the chemical signal can be an indication to terminate increase decrease or change the rate or pattern of the amount or type of chemical agent administered and the chemical signal can be the respective initiation termination increase decrease or change in the rate or pattern of the amount or type of chemical agent administered. The processing of closed loop feedback systems for electrical and chemical stimulation are described in more detail in respective U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 058 331 and 5 711 316 both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Closed loop electrical stimulation according to the present invention can be achieved by a modified form of an implantable SOLETRA KTNETRA RESTORE or SYNERGY signal generator available from Medtronic Minneapolis Minn. as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 353 762 the teaching of which is incorporated herein in its entirety a controller as described in or utilization of CIO DAS 08 and CIO DAC 16 1 processing boards and an IBM compatible computer available from Measurement Computing Middleboro Mass. with Visual Basic software for programming of algorithms. With reference to an illustration of a non limiting example of a controller comprising a microprocessor such as an MSP430 microprocessor from Texas Instruments Technology analog to digital converter such as AD7714 from Analog Devices Corp. pulse generator such as CD 1877 from Harris Corporation pulse width control lead driver digital to analog converter such as MAX538 from Maxim Corporation power supply memory and communications port or telemetry chip are shown. Optionally a digital signal processor is used for signal conditioning and filtering. Input leads and and output lead to lead therapeutic delivery device and drug delivery device therapeutic deliver device are also illustrated. Additional stimulation leads sensors and therapeutic delivery devices may be added to the controller as required. As a non limiting example inputs from sensors such as heart rate and blood pressure sensors are input to analog to digital converter . Microprocessor receiving the sensor inputs uses algorithms to analyze the biological activity of the patient and using PTD fuzzy logic or other algorithms computes an output to pulse generator and or drug delivery device drivers and respectively to neuromodulate the target site where the therapeutic delivery devices are placed. The output of analog to digital converter is connected to microprocessor through a peripheral bus including address data and control lines. Microprocessor processes the sensor data in different ways depending on the type of transducer in use. When the signal on the sensor indicates biological activity outside of threshold values for example elevated blood pressure or heart rate programmed by the clinician and stored in a memory the electrical signal applied through output drivers and of the controller will be adjusted. The output voltage or current from the controller are then generated in an appropriately configured form voltage current frequency and applied to the one or more therapeutic delivery devices placed at the target site for a prescribed time period to reduce elevated blood pressure or heart rate. If the patient s blood pressure or heart rate as monitored by the system is not outside of the normal threshold limits hypotensive or hypertensive bradycardic or tachycardic or if the controller output after it has timed out has resulted in a correction of the blood pressure or heart rate to within a predetermined threshold range no further electrical signal is applied to the target site and the controller continues to monitor the patient via the sensors. A block diagram of an algorithm which may be used in the present invention is shown in .

Referring to suitably conditioned and converted sensor data is input to the algorithm in block . The program computes at least one value of at least one biological activity related to a particular medical condition such as for example blood pressure heart rate or cardiac output and compares the measured value of the biological activity to a pre determined range of values which is determined in advance to be the desired therapeutic range of values. This range is programmed into the microprocessor via the telemetry or communications port of the controller. The algorithm compares and then determines whether or not the measured value lies outside the pre determined range of values . If the measured biological activity value is not outside the pre determined range of values the program continues to monitor the sensors and reiterates the comparison part of the algorithm. If the measured biological value is outside of the pre determined range of values a determination or comparison is made as to whether the value is too high or too low compared with the pre determined range. If the biological activity value is too high an adjustment to the therapeutic delivery device is made to lower the biological activity value of the patient by calculating an output signal for pulse generator or drug delivery device to deliver a sufficient amount of the pharmaceutical or electrical stimulation to lower the biological activity of the patient. The algorithm continues to monitor the biological activity following the adjustment. If the biological activity value is too low then an adjustment to the therapeutic delivery device is made to raise the biological activity value by calculating an output signal for the pulse generator or drug delivery device to deliver a sufficient amount of a pharmaceutical or electrical stimulation to raise the biological activity value of the patient. The algorithm continues to monitor the biological activity of the patient following the adjustment. The amount of adjustment made may be determined by proportional integral derivative algorithms of by implementation of fuzzy logic rules.

With respect to the control of specific electrical parameters the stimulus pulse frequency may be controlled by programming a value to a programmable frequency generator using the bus of the controller. The programmable frequency generator provides an interrupt signal to the microprocessor through an interrupt line when each stimulus pulse is to be generated. The frequency generator may be implemented by model CDP1878 sold by Harris Corporation. The amplitude for each stimulus pulse may be programmed to a digital to analog converter using the controller s bus. The analog output is conveyed through a conductor to an output driver circuit to control stimulus amplitude. The microprocessor of the controller may also program a pulse width control module using the bus. The pulse width control provides an enabling pulse of duration equal to the pulse width via a conductor. Pulses with the selected characteristics are then delivered from signal generator through a cable and lead to the target site or to a device such as a proportional valve or pump. For some types of sensors a microprocessor and analog to digital converter will not be necessary. The output from sensor can be filtered by an appropriate electronic filter in order to provide a control signal for signal generator. An example of such a filter is found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 259 387 Muscle Artifact Filter issued to Victor de Pinto on Nov. 9 1993 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

At the time the therapy delivery device is implanted the clinician programs certain key parameters into the memory of the implanted device via telemetry. These parameters may be updated subsequently as needed. The clinician may also program the range of values for pulse width amplitude and frequency which the therapy delivery device may use to optimize the therapy. The clinician may also choose the order in which the parameter changes are made. Alternatively the clinician may elect to use default values or the microprocessor may be programmed to use fuzzy logic rules and algorithms to determine output from the therapeutic delivery device to the patient based on sensor data and threshold values for the biological activity.

Although the application of sensors to detect bodily activity are part of embodiments of systems of the present invention the present invention also contemplates the relevant bodily activity to be detected without sensors. In such cases the neuromodulation parameters are adjusted manually in response to the clinical course of the disease or reporting by the patient.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method of stabilizing and or optimizing bodily functions augmenting function or treating the various medical conditions listed herein. In certain embodiments the method can be used to augment immune response which can involve any of the various components of the immune system such as the white blood cells spleen or thymus. In some cases immune response can be augmented to treat an immunological medical condition which can include immuno suppressed states immuno compromised states auto immune disorders drug related allergy an environmental allergy or hypogamaglobunimia.

The method comprises delivering a stimulus to one or more target sites in the nervous system. In certain embodiments at least one of the target sites is the medial thalamic region including the intralaminar nucleus and the adjacent white and grey matter. The target site may include a single intralaminar nuclei or to any combination of intralaminar nuclei. Other target sites may be elsewhere in the nervous system including the globus pallidus interna corpus callosum cerebellum cerebral cortex including the premotor cortex motor cortex and sensory cortex ventral striatum lateral thalamus substantia nigra and pedunculopontine nuclei.

The stimulus may be delivered by positioning one or more therapy delivery devices at the one or more target sites. The therapy delivery device may be activated to apply a therapy signal electrical and or chemical signal to the target site. This method can be performed in the operating room procedure room or imaging MRI CT X ray fluoroscopy or optical imaged guided suite. The procedures can be carried out peri operative or post operative to a surgical operation as well as in an intensive care unit and any other commonly utilized in patient and out patient capacities. Preferably the surgical operation includes procedures that may require heart bypass equipment procedures that may require a respiratory ventilator or surgeries where intravenous medications are used during and after surgery to influence cardiac and or pulmonary function. In an alternative embodiment this method is performed in a non surgical setting where intravenous medications are used for sedation analgesia and to stabilize cardiac function such as in the setting of myocardial infarction.

When two or more target sites are being stimulated stimulation may be coordinated or synchronized. For example the stimulation in one target site and another target site may be simultaneous alternating or time delayed.

Neuromodulation of the target sites of the present invention can be temporary or short term e.g. within seconds minutes hours days or less than 10 days intermediate 10 30 days or chronic greater than 30 days . Further the target sites can be accessed using any of the current approaches used by neurosurgeons spinal surgeons cardio thoracic surgeons vascular surgeons abdominal surgeons GU surgeons ENT surgeons plastic surgeons interventional radiologists including endovascular neuroradiologists neurologists pain management specialists rehabilitation and physical therapy specialists and anesthesiologists. The procedures involves direct and in direct placement of the therapy delivery device. This can be achieved using percutaneous endoscopic intravascular or open surgical approach. Furthermore all these approaches can be guided by imaging means of MRI CT X ray fluoroscopy optical imaging.

The influence of the neuromodulation of the systems and methods of the present invention can be manifested as changes in biological activity. For example with respect to movement disorders or conditions such changes can include reduction in tremors improved postural stability improved limb movement improved gait reduced extrapyramidal effects reduced spasms improved muscle control improved speech or improved alertness. In another example with respect to treating cardiovascular medical conditions such changes include changes in heart rate heart rhythm blood flow to the heart and cardiac contractility. These changes are reflected physiologically by parameters such as for example heart rate blood pressure cardiac output stroke volume pulmonary wedge pressure and venous pressure all of which can be measured. Preferably the neuromodulation allows for selective changes in one or more aspects of the target organ whose function is being influenced without influencing or minimally influencing other functions of the target organ. For example cardiac function may be selectively influenced by varying the parameters of stimulation such that cardiac contractility is affected but not heart rate.

The influence of neuromodulation of this method of the present invention on the respiratory system for example can be manifested in respiratory rate changes in elasticity of the lung tissue changes in diameter of the bronchioles and other structures in the respiratory branches perfusion and diffusion of blood and its products at the level of the alveoli and blood flow to the lungs. These changes are reflected physiologically by parameters such as for example respiratory rate pH of blood bicarbonate level ventilatory volume lung capacity and blood oxygenation.

The foregoing description has been set forth merely to illustrate the invention and is not intended as being limiting. Each of the disclosed aspects and embodiments of the present invention may be considered individually or in combination with other aspects embodiments and variations of the invention. In addition unless otherwise specified none of the steps of the methods of the present invention are confined to any particular order of performance. Modifications of the disclosed embodiments incorporating the spirit and substance of the invention may occur to persons skilled in the art and such modifications are within the scope of the present invention. For example although methods of treating specific medical conditions are described with respect to electrical and chemical neuromodulation other modes of neuromodulation can be used such as light magnetism sound pressure and heat cold. Furthermore all references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

