---

title: Apparatus and method for material testing of microscale and nanoscale samples
abstract: Methods and apparatus for testing a microscale or nanoscale sample. A testing stage comprises a frame having first and second laterally opposing ends and first and second side beams. At least one deformable force sensor beam is disposed near the first opposing end and extends laterally between the first and second side beams. A first longitudinal beam, having a free end, bisects the at least one force sensor beam, and a second longitudinal beam has a free end facing the free end of the first longitudinal beam to define a gap therebetween. A support structure comprises a plurality of laterally extending beams disposed such that the second longitudinal beam bisects the plurality of laterally extending beams. Each of a pair of slots disposed at each of the free ends of the first and second longitudinal beams comprises a tapered portion leading to a generally longitudinal portion aligned with the central longitudinal beam. The slots provide a seat for a dogbone-shaped sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07752916&OS=07752916&RS=07752916
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07752916
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
This invention was made with Government assistance under United States Air Force USAF Grant No. USAF 5212 STI SC 0004. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

As part of micro electronic and micro electromechanical systems MEMS microscale and nanoscale materials exhibit mechanical properties and deformation mechanisms that are different from their bulk counterparts. Accurately predicting material response requires understanding the fundamental mechanisms of material deformation and fracture occurrence in microscale and nanoscale. Material properties typically cannot be extrapolated from their respective bulk values since material behavior often is not only different in microscale but is also significantly affected by microstructure sample size and or fabrication processes and further is very sensitive to the influences of interfaces and adjoining materials. Changes in grain size and sample texture may lead to different responses even for the same materials. Some deformation mechanisms that are unimportant at bulk scale may become dominant as the sample s volume decreases and the relative surface area increases such as in thin films. For example samples made by gas deposition may exhibit different characteristics from those obtained by chemical clustering. As another example samples fabricated by mechanical attrition of metal powders may behave differently than the ones that are segmented from bulk materials.

Experiments to determine mechanical behavior and deformation mechanism at macroscale have been largely successful. Yet as the need for using smaller scale materials has increased with the development of microelectronics and micro sensors it becomes increasingly important to assess the mechanism of deformation and failure of materials at microscale and nanoscale. However due to the limited number of testing techniques for microscale and nanoscale samples characterizing materials at these small scales has been a challenge and much effort has been put into developing apparatuses and methods for testing.

Various material properties tests require tensile loading of a material sample specimen . One popular testing method is the uniaxial tensile test. This test involves gripping a specimen at opposing ends and producing tension in the specimen along a single axis while measuring the specimen s response. In the microscale or nanoscale however certain challenges arise when loading specimens such as gripping of the specimen aligning of the specimen in the direction of the force to minimize likelihood of invalidation of the test caused by flexural stress on the specimen and resultant premature failure and generating small forces e.g. on the order of micro Newtons with high resolutions.

These challenges can be addressed by using a substrate layer that is usually very compliant and with known material properties along with the actual specimen to be tested. However introduction of the substrate complicates the experimental analysis because the microscale material properties of the substrate itself may not be known accurately and because the interface with the substrate may influence the mechanical behavior of the specimen.

For example a method of fabricating freestanding aluminum films includes evaporating metal film on a glass slide covered with a water soluble layer releasing the thin film from the glass slide by immersing it in water and gluing the film to grips of a nano tensilometer with epoxy. However problems of mounting the specimen and premature specimen failure invalidate a significant number of tests using this method and experimental results from the tests have shown significant variation in measured elastic modulus and ultimate tensile strength.

Another prior fabrication technique includes sputtering metal film on glass slides and releasing the films by peeling the films off from a substrate. A motor driven micrometer is used to produce elongation in the films and a load cell is used to read the stress. Laser spots diffracted from the gratings on the specimen surface determine the strain with 0.002 resolution.

Yet another known method provides a piezo actuated tensile testing apparatus using Ti Cu Ti multilayer films with a length of 700 microns a width of 200 microns and a total thickness of 1.2 m patterned on wafers by lithography. The films are then released from the substrate by wet etching of the substrate. Such a tensile testing apparatus has been known to provide force and displacement resolutions of about 200 N and 20 nm respectively. Still another testing method uses piezoelectric actuators for displacement with a load cell a laser interferometer and a strain gauge optical encoder assembly to measure force and displacement.

A more recent material testing method is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 817 255 issued Nov. 16 2004 the 255 Patent to Hague and Saif which is incorporated herein by reference. The 255 Patent discloses an apparatus and method for uniaxial tensile testing of a thin film material. This apparatus allows quantitative study of thin metal films down to very small thicknesses. The compact size and displacement based measurement of example devices in the 255 Patent allows one to conduct in situ quantitative and qualitative tensile testing in environments such as a transmission electron microscope TEM and a scanning electron microscope SEM .

An example apparatus disclosed in the 255 Patent includes a testing stage e.g. a compact MEMS based chip that includes a co fabricated thin film specimen to be tested held by at least one force sensor beam at a first longitudinal end and by a support structure at a second longitudinal end. An example support structure includes a longitudinal beam connected to the second longitudinal end and aligned with the tensile axis of the specimen and a plurality of lateral support beams. The support beams reduce flexing of the specimen resulting from misalignment of the pulling direction with the tensile axis of the specimen thus ensuring that a sample is subjected to uniaxial tension. Preferred embodiments of the chip include a pair of structural springs fabricated for maintaining structural integrity between the first and second ends of the chip and for addressing misalignment. Markers e.g. displacement gauges may be provided for measuring displacement of longitudinal ends of the specimen and deflection of the force sensor beam.

To test the thin film sample the ends of the stage are separated e.g. pulled from one another by an actuator such as a piezo actuator in SEM or a motor in TEM which produces a tensile load on the sample. Measured displacement is used to determine material properties of the thin film specimen. For example the force on the sample is determined from the displacement of the force sensor beams and the spring constant of the force sensor beam s . The spring constant may be determined mathematically given dimensions and properties of the force sensor beams and or by calibration such as by using a nanoindenter. Sample stretching may be measured for example by measuring displacement of the force sensor beams and the support structure.

Another testing stage for testing thin film samples is disclosed in Han J. and Saif M. T. A. In Situ microtensile stage for electromechanical characterization of nanoscale freestanding films Review of Scientific Instruments Vol. 77 No. 4 pp. 45102 1 8 2006 Han and Saif which is incorporated herein by reference. This testing stage allows more accurate calibration prior to testing e.g. without nanoindentation after cleaving the stage and electrical resistivity measurement of the sample in addition to stress strain response.

An example embodiment disclosed in Han and Saif uses a testing stage co fabricated with a thin film specimen as with the 255 Patent. The specimen is disposed between a support structure with a longitudinal beam axially aligned with a tensile axis and a plurality of lateral beams at one end and by one or more deformable lateral force sensor beams with a bisecting longitudinal beam at the opposite end. To protect the metal thin film sample from possible premature failure during fabrication of the testing stage a protecting beam is provided. The protecting beam extends parallel to the co fabricated sample and connects the support structure to the longitudinal beam bisecting the force sensor beams.

After fabricating the sample the protecting beam is cut using focused ion beam FIB to provide a displacement gauge. A laterally extending beam disposed between the support structure and the force sensor beams provides a reference displacement gauge. Tensile testing is performed similarly to that described in the 255 Patent. The displacement gauges measure displacement of the sample and the force sensor beams and are sufficiently near the sample to allow simultaneous observation of the sample stress strain and the displacement gauges in an observation chamber.

For calibrating the force sensor beams Han and Saif discloses using two silicon calibrators. Both calibrators are silicon chips including an opening for connecting to a moving stage a guide spring for improving alignment and a leaf spring for calibration. A first calibrator known as a master calibrator is glued to a larger substrate that allows calibration of the first calibrator s leaf spring by a nanoindenter. This leaf spring is then urged against the second calibrator s leaf spring to calibrate it. An opening of the testing stage adjacent to the force sensor beams receives the second calibrator and guides in the second calibrator mate with guide fits in the opening to align the calibrator within the testing stage. The second calibrator s leaf spring is urged against the force sensor beams to calibrate the force sensor beams.

In addition to tensile testing the testing stage disclosed in Han and Saif may be used for electrical resistive testing of a sample. A metal film is deposited over the silicon testing stage substrate during fabrication and metal isolations formed by removing metal and oxide are patterned in the testing stage to provide isolated electrodes coupling the thin film specimen to connection points. Han and Saif disclose providing a four point resistance measurement using the isolated electrodes.

However both the testing stage disclosed in the 255 Patent and the testing stage disclosed in Han and Saif use a co fabricated thin film sample. This can limit the types of samples and sample materials that are available for testing. Further both testing stages allow tensile testing but not other types of material testing such as compressive testing.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things methods and apparatus for testing a microscale or nanoscale sample. A testing stage comprises a frame having first and second opposing ends and first and second side beams. At least one deformable force sensor beam is disposed near the first opposing end and extends laterally across the frame between the first and second side beams. A first longitudinal beam having a free end bisects the at least one force sensor beam and a second longitudinal beam has a free end facing the free end of the first longitudinal beam to define a gap therebetween. A support structure near the second opposing end comprises a plurality of laterally extending beams disposed such that the second longitudinal beam bisects the plurality of laterally extending beams.

A pair of slots is disposed at each of the free ends of the first and second longitudinal beams. Each of the slots comprises a tapered portion leading to a generally longitudinal portion aligned with the central longitudinal beam. The pair of slots together provide a seat for a dogbone shaped sample.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things methods and apparatuses for material testing of a nanoscale or microscale sample specimen allowing testing of the sample in situ within a number of testing environments including but not limited to a chamber such as a scanning electron microscope SEM or transmission electron microscope TEM chamber. An example testing stage can be provided using microfabrication techniques so that the chip is small enough to be placed within a chamber without modification allowing both qualitative and quantitative in situ experimentation of the sample on a microscale or nanoscale. The testing stage may be used for a variety of tests requiring tensile or compressive loading of a specimen such as testing of uniaxial tension or compression tension tension fatigue electrical resistance including resistance under stress and low and high temperature creep among others.

Particular embodiments of the present invention provide a MEMS based testing stage which allows both uniaxial tensile and compressive testing of externally fabricated microscale samples for quantitative study of their mechanical behavior and simultaneous observation of their microstructural and topological evolution in situ. Generally example testing stages according to embodiments of the present invention include a frame having first and second longitudinally opposed ends and laterally opposed sides. A first longitudinal beam near the first end is connected to at least one force sensor beam which runs laterally between the sides. The first longitudinal beam includes a free end. A second longitudinal beam coaxial with the first longitudinal beam also has a free end and is disposed so that a gap is provided between the free ends of the first and second longitudinal beams. A support structure includes a plurality of laterally extending beams disposed near the second end. The second longitudinal beam bisects the laterally extending beams.

The free ends of the first and second longitudinal beams each include a slot and these two slots provide a seat for part of an externally fabricated dogbone shaped sample. The slots include a tapered portion leading to a generally longitudinal portion extending to the edge of the free ends. When the dogbone shaped sample is placed within the slots the sample spans the gap between the free ends and the slots serve as a grip for the ends of the sample.

The force sensor beams may be calibrated by a calibrator that is inserted into an opening in the testing stage. An exemplary calibrator is a chip including a leaf spring that is pre calibrated using a nanoindenter and then inserted into the opening. The leaf spring is urged against the force sensor beams to calibrate the force sensor beams.

To test a microscale or nanoscale sample the sample is inserted into the slots to span and connect the first and second longitudinal beams. The first and second ends of the testing stage are moved relative to one another such as away from one another for tensile testing and toward one another for compressive testing. In an example embodiment movement is provided by a moving stage loading stage having portions that are inserted into openings in the first and second ends of the frame. Example moving stages include both a coarse spring loaded actuator and a fine piezo actuator. The support structure preferably in combination with one or more U shaped springs and the dogbone shape of the sample maintains uniaxial movement during either tensile or compressive testing.

During relative movement of the first and second ends one or more displacement gauges are used to measure stretching of the specimen and the force on the force sensor beams. Preferably the displacement gauges are provided near the sample such as by the free ends of the first and second longitudinal beams in combination with a laterally extending center gauge so that the displacement can be observed simultaneously with deformation of the sample. A metal film may be provided on the testing stage and separated by selectively placed metal isolators to define resistors for measuring electrical resistance of the sample including electrical resistance under sample stress and at room temperature.

Preferred embodiments allow testing of any of various types of materials including organic inorganic or a combination of materials. Sample materials include but are not limited to metals including single crystal or polycrystal dielectrics biological materials and or multi layer composites that can be fabricated in a suitable shape to fit within a sample slot in the testing stage. Embodiments of the invention are particularly useful for probing microscale or nanoscale material behavior where the deformation characteristics are expected to deviate significantly from bulk values. Preferred samples are made into a dog bone shape to ensure uniaxial tension or compression. Because the samples are fabricated separately a greater variety of samples are possible for material testing than that available under certain previous methods. Further separately fabricated samples allow the testing stage to be reusable.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that may not be to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

During testing the first end is moved relative to the second end for example by a moving stage such as a straining stage . For tensile testing the first end and the second end are moved away from one another along a displacement direction D while for compressive testing the first end and the second end are moved toward one another along the displacement direction. Either the first end or the second end may be a fixed end while the other end is moved. Alternatively both ends may be moved while loading.

For supporting a sample specimen to be tested the testing stage includes a first longitudinal beam that is substantially laterally centered within the frame and coaxial with the displacement direction D. The first longitudinal beam bisects one or more and preferably several deformable force sensor beams . These force sensor beams extend laterally between the first and second side beams . As shown in the force sensor beams extend along a lateral line such as line AB. The force sensor beams provide support to the first longitudinal beam and they are configured to deflect in response to a tensile or compressive stress on the sample. Using a plurality of force sensor beams in the testing stage allows a larger range of spring constants when testing the sample. For example if the sample to be used is soft one or more of the force sensor beams may by cut such as by focused ion beam FIB to lower the beam stiffness and attain higher force resolution.

The testing stage also includes a second laterally centered longitudinal beam also coaxial with the displacement direction D which bisects a plurality of laterally extending support beams . These generally rectangular beams which extend laterally between the first and second side beams such as along line CD in provide a support structure for supporting the second longitudinal beam and help to reduce misalignment during loading. While five support beams are shown in it will be appreciated that less than or more than five support beams are possible. Other configurations for the support beams are possible. Thus the support structure is not intended to be limited to the configuration shown. It is preferred however that a plurality of support beams be used.

The first and second longitudinal beams are coaxially disposed so that free ends of the beams face one another the edges of which are separated by a gap . These free ends include generally symmetrical sample slots which support ends of a sample to be tested see also and provide sample grips. During testing an externally fabricated sample is placed within the testing stage so that first and second ends of the sample are seated within the sample slots at the free ends . The sample is partially suspended spanning the gap between the first and second longitudinal beams to connect the beams. An example length for the sample is between one half micron and 20 microns.

The sample made separately from the testing stage preferably is formed into a dog bone shape and the sample slots in the free ends are similarly patterned in complementary parts of a dog bone shape to receive the sample. Thus the sample includes a pair of enlarged longitudinally opposed ends having at least a portion tapering inwardly to a more narrow longitudinal portion extending therebetween. Similarly the sample slots each include a laterally enlarged portion that tapers inwardly to a narrower longitudinal portion . The dogbone shape for the sample slots in combination and for the sample helps maintain a uniaxial load on the sample during testing. The longitudinal portions of the sample slots are coaxial with the displacement direction D.

The taper in the sample slots and in the sample is preferably at an angle of about 25 with respect to the displacement direction loading axis D. Therefore the sample can self align with the displacement direction D during loading. While the sample slots shown in are formed by patterning and Si etching different shapes of slots can also be created by focused ion beam FIB on the original slot. For example a more refined slot may be made by FIB on the original slots for tensile testing of a Ni super alloy sample as shown in .

Because the sample in embodiments of the present invention is externally fabricated and then placed into the sample slots a large range of materials are available for the sample. For example the sample may be made of metal including single crystal or polycrystal biological material organic or inorganic material a composite structure etc. Further because the samples are freely insertable and removable the testing stage may be reused after material testing.

The support structure supporting the second longitudinal beam transmits the displacement between the first and second ends of the testing stage to the sample during testing via the second longitudinal beam. The support beams correct load misalignment between the displacement direction D and the load axis of the sample . Similarly the force sensor beams sense a force transmitted to the sample via the first longitudinal beam .

For preventing premature loading of the sample within the testing stage the second longitudinal beam preferably terminates beyond the support structure in a cantilevered support end opposite the free end . The cantilevered support end extends laterally from the center of the second longitudinal beam forming a symmetrical generally T shaped end. An opening is formed in the second end to accommodate the cantilevered end and this opening is slightly larger than the cantilevered end to provide small gaps XX and X X on longitudinally opposed sides of the cantilevered end. As shown in gap XX is longitudinally closer to the sample and gap X X is longitudinally farther from the sample. During tensile loading the testing stage has to be pulled to first close the gap XX before straining the sample . Similarly during compressive loading the testing stage has to be pushed to first close the gap X X before imparting a compressive load on the sample .

To further correct misalignment between the sample and the loading axis D and for providing structural integrity to the testing stage a pair of springs such as U shaped springs is provided at each lateral side near the side beams or elsewhere on the testing stage. These springs deform when the first end and the second end are pulled apart during relative movement e.g. during actuation of the testing stage and thus substantially prevent the side beams between the springs and first end from deforming. This also facilitates transmission of the displacement between the ends along the second longitudinal beam to the sample . Cutouts may be provided within the side beams for further improving structural integrity.

The inward edges at the facing free ends of the first and second longitudinal beams provide displacement gauges for measuring stress of the force sensor beams and displacement of the ends of the sample . Referring also to a center gauge is provided by an Si beam that extends laterally from the side beam toward the edges and preferably is longitudinally centered between the gauges functioning as a reference. Cutouts at the edges may be provided to further define the displacement gauges e.g. to provide a larger range of measurement without interfering with the sample . In an example embodiment a gap Gis defined between the first gauge and the center gauge and a gap Gis defined between the second gauge and the center gauge.

To apply load on the sample the testing stage is actuated so that initially the gap XX or X X is closed for tensile or compression testing respectively. Further actuation applies load on the sample and the gaps Gand G change. The change in Ggives the deflection of the force sensing beams which in turn is used to calculate the force on the sample by multiplying it with the stiffness of the force sensing beams. Subtracting the change in Gfrom that in Ggives the deformation and hence the strain of the sample .

It will be appreciated that additional or alternative displacement gauges e.g. markers may be provided on the testing stage at different locations to measure the displacement in the sample and the force on the sample. However locating the displacement gauges near the sample allows the displacement gauges to be read simultaneously with observation of the sample. This may be especially useful during in situ monitoring and testing such as within a TEM or SEM chamber to enable simultaneous study of the sample s quantitative response as well as its microstructural and topological evolution during deformation.

An example fabrication process for making the testing stage includes two patterning steps and two Si etching steps as shown in . Though Si is shown as an example substrate material wafers of other material that can be suitably patterned such as by microfabrication techniques may be used for the substrate material.

Particularly as shown in a 4 150 m thick Si wafer is thermally oxidized at 1100 C. in oxygen environment for about an hour to obtain about 150 nm thick SiO. A 50 nm thick metal layer such as an Al layer is sputter deposited on both sides of an Si substrate wafer . The Al layer on the front side of the wafer is used to create electrical paths for resistivity measurement and the layer on the back side is used to enhance adhesion between the substrate and photoresist such as AZ5214 positive photoresist. Both sides of the wafer are then coated by the photoresist and patterned by optical lithography. Preferably a pattern on the front of the wafer is a mirror image of that on the bottom except that the top has a dog bone shaped pattern for the sample slot . This generally symmetrical pattern in example embodiments allows the number of patterning and etching steps to be minimized.

Small openings on the top Al layer are formed as electrical isolations which allow current flow only through prescribed paths of the metal film . This defines a plurality of resistors within the metal film coupling the sample slot thus coupling the inserted sample to contacts defined by the Al layer . In a preferred embodiment the resistors defined by the electrical isolators provide 4 point resistivity measurement of the sample. More particularly a first resistive path is defined from the first longitudinal beam through the side beam and to the first opposing end a second resistive path is defined from the first longitudinal beam through the side beam and to the first opposing end a third resistive path is defined from the second longitudinal beam through the side beam and the U spring and to the second opposing end and a fourth resistive path is defined from the second longitudinal beam through the side beam and the U spring and to the second opposing end. The first and third resistive paths and the second and fourth resistive paths are electrically coupled via the sample .

An example circuit diagram showing this four point resistive measurement is disclosed in Han and Saif. This four point resistive measurement eliminates any contribution of contact resistances in the measurement of the sample s resistance. In an example resistivity testing method the current through the sample e.g. through the first and third resistive path is prescribed and the voltage across the sample e.g. across the second and fourth resistive path is measured. The ratio of the voltage measured over the current supplied gives the resistance of the metal sample.

Referring now to the photoresist pattern is transferred to the Al and SiOlayers by liquid etching and reactive ion etching RIE respectively exposing Si areas . These areas are etched in an inductively coupled plasma deep reactive ion etching ICP DRIE chamber from the back side until there is about 10 to 20 m or a different amount depending on how deep a sample slot needs to be of Si left. A shallow Si etching is conducted from the front side to remove this remaining Si and to create a dogbone shaped sample slot. Finally the photoresist remainder on the top and bottom is removed by Oplasma. Due to the small size of the center gauge area the etch rate here from the bottom is slower than other larger open areas resulting in thicker remainder of Si. After completion of Si etching FIB cutting or additional Si etching may be used to separate the center gauge from the adjacent two sample grips at the edges of the free ends. The last dry Si etching step determines the depth of the sample slot. FIB cutting may also be used to make a differently shaped or more refined sample slot on the Si etched sample slot though this is not required.

For example show an alternative testing stage according to another embodiment of the present invention. Generally the testing stage is similar to the testing stage shown in except for the configuration of the free ends of the first and second longitudinal beams and the configuration of the sample slots. Particularly as best seen in free ends of the first and second longitudinal beams respectively include symmetrical tapered edges on either lateral side. These tapered edges provide additional space for the reference gauge extending laterally from the side beam . Gaps Gand Gare accordingly defined between sides of the reference gauge and one or more locations along the tapered edges . This helps make the gauges closer to a sample than the gauges in the testing stage providing higher measurement resolution e.g. three times higher .

Additionally a sample includes a center longitudinal portion as with the longitudinal portion of the sample but further includes ends having symmetrical inward tapers and outward tapers . The tapers define a substantially rhombus shaped ends but with edged vertices. By contrast the ends of the sample preferably have a generally triangular shape. A well defined sample slot in the free ends is shaped to receive the sample and preferably is formed using microfabrication techniques without FIB treatment though FIB treatment may be used . The tapers help maintain a uniaxial load for both tension and compression.

As stated above the measured change in Ggives the deflection of the force sensing beams which is used to calculate the force on the sample by multiplying it with the stiffness of the force sensing beams. To determine the stiffness e.g. spring constant of the force sensing beams a formula may be used considering the material and dimensions of the force sensor beams such as the formula as disclosed in the 255 Patent. Alternatively the force sensing beams may be calibrated using a calibrator. Referring to a calibrator is provided that is insertable into an opening in the testing stage near the first opposing end of the frame . The opening is adjacent to the force sensing beams .

The example calibrator which preferably is microfabricated from a silicon substrate material has a frame and two leaf springs in series at an end of the frame. The leaf springs are calibrated by a nanoindenter. A horizontal beam bisects the leaf springs and terminates at one end in a gauge. A second horizontal beam extends from the frame facing the horizontal beam and providing a reference gauge separated from the horizontal beam by a gap.

One or more guides such as fingers are disposed about an outer edge of the calibrator for gripping an inner surface of the opening and or mating with guide slots in the opening. The fingers help retain the calibrator within the testing stage and limit rotation of the calibrator thus limiting misalignment when the calibrator is actuated. A generally teardrop shaped loading hole is provided within the calibrator for insertion of a pillar from a moving stage. The calibrator frame may have different shapes. For example an alternative calibrator has a generally T shaped frame for inserting into a T shaped opening as shown in . The T shaped calibrator and opening helps reduce misalignment during calibration. Additionally the additional material provided for the frame of the testing stage improves the structural integrity of the testing stage.

Compared to the calibration technique disclosed in Han and Saif exemplary calibration according to embodiments of the present invention uses a single calibrator. Using a single Si calibrator reduces calibration steps in turn minimizing measurement error. This is made possible by providing a calibration stage that allows the calibrator to be removably placed within the calibration stage. Particularly a base which for example may be made of a machined metal includes a horizontal surface providing a calibration platform and a vertical surface extending normal to the horizontal surface. The platform allows the calibrator to be placed upright against the vertical surface with its leaf spring facing up. A removable cover including a vertical surface is removably placed over the horizontal surface such that the vertical surface of the cover and the vertical surface of the base sandwich the calibrator therebetween effectively clamping the calibrator for nanoindentation of the leaf springs . In the example calibration stage shown in friction between the base and cover is sufficient to keep the calibrator clamped. However it is also contemplated that clamps fasteners etc. may be used to retain the cover in position to prevent undesirable movement of the calibrator during nanoindentation while allowing removal of the calibrator after calibration.

In an exemplary calibration method after nanoindentation the calibrator is placed in the opening inside the testing stage to calibrate the force sensing beams as shown in . An example method for measuring deflections and calculating spring constants is substantially the same as that disclosed in Han and Saif except that a second calibrator is not required. Particularly the calibrator and the stage are pushed toward each other and the relative deflections from the leaf springs of the calibrator and the force sensing beams of the testing stage are measured from the change in the gaps of the respective gauges. The force sensing beams and the leaf spring are freestanding during calibration to avoid friction with a substrate. Preferably the maximum possible misalignment between the calibrator and the testing stage is less than 1 restricting the possible error in measuring the deflection of the leaf springs down to less than 0.02 .

To actuate the testing stage during material testing a compact moving stage straining stage is provided as shown in . An example moving stage has a size of 24 mm 50 mm 50 mm allowing it to fit within a typical SEM chamber.

The moving stage includes a pair of stages particularly a coarse stage and a fine stage . The coarse stage may be for example a manual stage that is spring loaded with a suitable spring for coarse movement. A fixed platform has a horizontal surface and a rail on which a spring loaded platform is slidingly disposed. The fine stage preferably is a piezo actuated stage. Two pillars respectively disposed on first and second platforms are positioned to go through tear drop loading holes of the stage for applying stage deformation. An adhesive may also be used to further secure the testing stage to the first and second platforms if needed. The fine stage shown in includes a pair of elongated piezo actuators for moving the first and second platforms toward or away from one another. These piezo actuators have a small displacement range and high displacement resolution compared to that of the coarse stage . The coarse stage and one of the piezo actuators moves the first platform with respect to the second platform while the other piezo actuator moves the second platform with respect to the first platform. Thus both testing stages may be used to stretch or compress the testing stage to apply load on the sample . The pair of longitudinally opposed tear drop shape loading holes see also helps maintain the alignment between the sample and the loading axis displacement direction D .

During a test the testing stage is calibrated using the calibrator . For example the calibrator may be inserted into the calibration stage for nanoindentation precalibration . Then the calibrator is inserted into the opening of the testing stage for calibration. The externally fabricated sample is inserted into the sample slot . The testing stage is positioned on the moving stage so that the loading holes are positioned around the pillars of the platforms. Next the coarse stage is actuated preferably at least to grip the testing stage i.e. so that the pillars traverse their respective loading holes until they reach an edge of the loading holes . The coarse stage may be further actuated until the testing stage is sufficiently stretched or compressed to close the gap XX or X X . Next the fine stage is actuated to produce a tensile or compressive load on the sample . Particularly the testing stage is stretched by the fine actuator for a tensile test or compressed for a compression test. The displacement gauges are observed during tension or compression and changes in the gaps Gand Gare measured. Separately or simultaneously electrical resistance of the sample may be measured using contacts on the metal film of the testing stage as described above.

In an experimental operation of the example testing stage and calibrator a test sample is made by sectioning a bulk Rene N5 single crystalline Ni superalloy using FIB by a similar technique to that described in Uchich M. D. Groeber M. A. Dimiduk D. M. and Simmons J. P. Scripta Materialia Vol. 55 No. 1 pp. 23 28 2006. The sample is formed into a dogbone shape having 20 m long gauge length 10 m thickness and 5 m width. Its composition is 30 Ni and 70 of NiAl where Ni is the solid solution matrix phase and NiAl is the precipitate. Sectioning by FIB is done so that the sample is oriented out of plane on the top and slip lines are to form in direction. Once the sample is separated from its bulk it is transferred into the sample slot of the testing stage by a micromanipulator in FIB.

To apply tensile load on the sample in SEM the compact moving stage shown in was provided. Its overall size is 24 mm 50 mm 50 mm to fit into the SEM chamber. The spring loaded manual stage has a displacement resolution of 0.5 m and maximum translation of 3 mm. The two piezo actuators each have maximum displacement of 10 m.

The testing stage is first placed on the moving stage such that the two pillars of the loading stage go through the holes of the testing stage. The diameters of the pillar and the hole are 500 m and 1000 m respectively. Thus the pillars need to travel by almost 1000 m before the testing stage can be gripped. The testing stage then is stretched or compressed by another 50 m to close gaps XX or X X before the sample can be loaded. This total travel of the pillars is carried out by the spring loaded manual stage . The entire setup is then moved to the SEM for in situ loading of the sample using the piezo actuators .

The specimen and the displacement gauges are captured in the same image in SEM. Automated sequence of sample loading and image recording is used to stretch the specimen. The gauge displacement is measured by image auto correlation technique to calculate the stress and strain of the sample. Microstructural change in the sample is correlated to the quantitative measurement of the mechanical response.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that a method and apparatus for microscale and nanoscale testing of a sample has been shown and described which provides a number of benefits. The testing stage allows measurement of stress strain response of externally fabricated microscale samples of any materials that can be shaped into a dogbone. An example testing stage allows both tensile and compressive testing as well as electrical resistivity testing including during tension or compression. The testing stage can be reused if desired. Misalignment of tensile or compressive force is minimized allowing for true uniaxial testing. Calibration of the testing stage can be performed simply and accurately with fewer required components than in some previous calibration systems.

The size of an overall material testing system including the testing stage sample calibrator and moving stage can be made relatively small so that tests can be carried out in situ. Accordingly in situ observation of microstructure can be observed to correlate with corresponding stress strain response. Additionally by performing experiments inside an environmental cell such as SEM TEM or other microscope such as an optical microscope one can test the effect of environmental conditions.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

