---

title: Battery charging arrangement for unmanned aerial vehicle utilizing the electromagnetic field associated with utility power lines to generate power to inductively charge energy supplies
abstract: A method and apparatus for charging energy supplies in an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). The present invention relates to a UAV that comprises an inductive charging device that utilizes the electromagnetic field emanated by overhead/utility power lines, to charge the energy supplies. The UAV also includes a releasable latch for holding power lines to allow for the perching of the UAV on power lines during the charging process. The latch and the inductive charging device may be provided on a single device, a battery augmentation trap (BAT). The UAV may be perched in an upright orientation to allow for takeoff after the charging of energy supplies on the power line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07714536&OS=07714536&RS=07714536
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07714536
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070405
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for charging energy supplies in an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV more particularly the present invention relates to a UAV that comprises an inductive charging device that generates a charging current by utilizing the electromagnetic field emanated by overhead utility power lines the UAV also including a latch for perching on the utility power lines during the charging process.

An unmanned aerial vehicle commonly referred to a UAV is an aircraft with no onboard pilot. UAVs may be expendable or recoverable and may fly autonomously or remotely. In autonomous applications the vehicle is either pre programmed with flight plans or may have the ability to determine its own flight plan based on a prescribed mission. UAVs are commonly employed by the Navy Army and Air Force for military purposes. UAVs are also employed in the private sector to perform services such as crop dusting forest fire monitoring aerial photography and meteorological environmental or other forms of surveillance.

Currently electrically powered UAVs are limited in range and duration by the size and weight of the batteries which they can carry. Batteries can make up a significant percentage of the available payload weight. Consequently there is an inherent tradeoff between duration and useful payload. Because of these constraints the flight times of electrically powered UAVs are typically limited to less than one hour. Additionally the distance traveled from a base location is also limited. Also of concern is that UAV batteries slowly lose their energy even when they are completely powered down. This limits the ability of UAVs to shut down for extended periods of time and then be useful again if the vehicle cannot be recharged. Because of these problems it is desired to have a means to recharge UAV batteries that does not require a return to the base location. It is also desired to have a means to recharge the batteries that enables the UAV to perform job functions in a more efficient manner.

The present invention addresses aspects of problems outlined above. Preferred embodiments of the present invention provide a method and apparatus for charging energy supplies in an unmanned aerial vehicle.

In one aspect the invention is a method of charging energy supplies in an airborne unmanned aerial vehicle. The method includes the providing of a battery augmentation trap which is attached the unmanned aerial vehicle. In this aspect the battery augmentation trap comprises a releasable latch and an inductive charging device for charging the energy supplies. The method also includes the perching of the unmanned aerial vehicle on a utility power line. This is accomplished by maneuvering the airborne unmanned aerial vehicle so that the releasable latch of the unmanned aerial vehicle secures the utility power line within the releasable latch after which the utility power line supports the unmanned vehicle. The method further includes the charging of the energy supplies with the inductive charging device. The inductive charging device utilizes the electromagnetic field associated with the utility power line to generate power for the energy supplies.

In another aspect the invention is an unmanned aerial vehicle. The unmanned aerial vehicle has a vehicle body that includes a vertical reference line and a horizontal reference line. In this aspect the vehicle body has a base portion a propulsion system and a battery augmentation trap. According to the invention the battery augmentation trap comprises an inductive charging device for charging energy supplies and a releasable latch for releasably holding a utility power line. The battery augmentation trap is attached to the vehicle body above the center of gravity of the vehicle body along a substantially vertical line through the center of gravity. According to the invention when the releasable latch holds the utility power line the unmanned aerial vehicle is supported by the latch such that horizontal reference line of the vehicle body and vertical reference line of the vehicle body are maintained in substantially horizontal and substantial vertical orientations respectively.

In another aspect the invention is an unmanned aerial vehicle having a vehicle body. The unmanned aerial vehicle includes a vertical reference line and a horizontal reference line and a vehicle body. The vehicle body includes a propulsion system an inductive charging device for charging energy supplies and a releasable latch for releasably holding a utility power line. In this aspect the releasable latch is attached to the vehicle body above the center of gravity of the vehicle body along a substantially vertical line through the center of gravity. In this aspect when the releasable latch holds the utility power line the unmanned aerial vehicle is supported by the latch such that horizontal reference line of the vehicle body and vertical reference line of the vehicle body are maintained in substantially horizontal and substantial vertical orientations respectively.

In this embodiment the UAV has a vehicle body with a base portion . The UAV is powered by a propulsion system shown generally at . The propulsion system which is preferably electrically powered includes a hollow rotor shaft and one or more horizontal rotors attached to the hollow rotor shaft . As illustrated the horizontal reference line coincides with the horizontal plane through which the rotor rotates. The vertical reference line runs along and parallel to the hollow rotor shaft .

The BAT further includes an inductive charging device having leads for charging the energy supplies of the UAV. The leads extend from the BAT into the vehicle body where the leads make electronic contact with energy supplies within the vehicle body. The energy supplies may include batteries that power the UAV and or sensors within the UAV. Although the figures illustrate only two leads two or more leads may be included to meet the requirements of the energy supplies.

As stated above the inductive charging device is implemented for charging energy supplies in the UAV. Typically inductive charging systems transfer power by magnetically coupling a primary supply source to a secondary receiving source. According to the invention overhead utility power lines that carry alternating currents are utilized as a primary supply source and the inductive charging device is the secondary receiving source. The electromagnetic flux associated with overhead utility power lines induces an electric current in a nearby wire in the inductive charging device. This current is subsequently utilized to charge the energy supplies of the UAV. To increase the induced current the inductive charging device may include a wire with at least one turn and the wire may be wound about a ferromagnetic core.

Because of the ability to generate an electric current from the electromagnetic flux associated with power lines the inductive charging device may also be utilized as a detector for detecting the presence of overhead power lines. Alternatively a sensing means independent of the charging device may be used for detecting the presence of the overhead wires. The sensing means would also generate an electric current in response to the detection of an electromagnetic field. The sensing means which may comprise a plurality of inductive arrangements and or antennae may be used to detect the direction of the power lines. The arrangement may also include a signal processor to determine the time to impact the power line as it relates to the velocity of the UAV.

In this embodiment the UAV has a vehicle body with a nose and is powered by a propulsion system shown generally at . The propulsion system which is preferably electrically powered is a forward thrust unit that may comprise propeller or ducted fan based units. also shows a battery augmentation trap BAT . The BAT may be mounted on an upper surface of the vehicle body above a center of gravity of the UAV so that in the upright orientation both the BAT and the center of gravity lie along the vertical reference line which is substantially vertically oriented. The BAT includes a latching arrangement and an inductive charging device similar to the embodiment outlined with respect to . Consequently the description of the structure and operation of BAT also applies to BAT . Similar to the embodiment of BAT may be used as a sensor to detect the presence of overhead utility power lines. Alternatively UAV may include one or more sensors independent of the BAT to detect the presence location and direction of power lines.

Step is the providing of a battery augmentation trap BAT . As illustrated in the BAT is attached to the vehicle body. In an embodiment in which the UAV is a helicopter as shown in the BAT is located above the rotors above the center of gravity of the UAV along a substantially vertical line through the center of gravity. In an embodiment in which the UAV is an airplane as shown in the BAT may be located above the vehicle body above the center of gravity of the UAV along a substantially vertical line through the center of gravity. As shown in the BAT includes a releasable latch for releasably holding an overhead utility power line. The BAT also includes an inductive charging device that utilizes the electromagnetic flux associated with the power line to generate a current for charging energy supplies on the UAV.

As an alternative to step steps and may be implemented in the method of charging energy supplies in a UAV. At step a releasable latch is provided on an upper surface of the UAV as shown in . At step an inductive charging device is provided on the UAV at a location independent of the latch. In an embodiment in which the UAV is a helicopter the inductive charging device may be provided on tail boom portion to maximize the utilization of the electromagnetic flux associated with overhead utility power lines.

Step is the perching of the UAV on an overhead utility power line. This step includes the detecting of the power line which may be accomplished by onboard sensors or from a remote location such as the base location. Upon the detection of the power line the UAV maneuvers towards the power line so that the releasable latch of the BAT secures the power line. The securing of the power line may involve the opening and or closing of the releasable latch. As illustrated in the UAV may be perched in an upright orientation. Alternatively the UAV may be perched in another orientation particularly in situations involving persistent surveillance where the UAV is indefinitely perched on the power line. If the UAV is a rotorcraft such as a helicopter the step of securing the power line would involve the hovering of the UAV in close proximity to the power line in order to reduce stresses on the power line. If the UAV is a non vertical takeoff vehicle such as an airplane the step of securing is accomplished by flying the UAV at a reduced speed into the power line so that the releasable latch contacts and secures the power line. As outlined above onboard sensors may be used to detect the presence and location of overhead power lines.

Step is the charging of the energy supplies with the inductive charging device. The energy supplies include all of the UAV s onboard energy supplies such as batteries associated with the propulsion system and sensors. As outlined above the electromagnetic flux associated with overhead utility power lines induces an electric current in a nearby wire in the inductive charging device. This current is subsequently utilized to charge the energy supplies such as batteries of the UAV. Step may be followed by step where one or more sensors on the UAV are used to monitor environmental conditions indefinitely by for example performing surveillance imagery. The environmental conditions may include weather conditions temperature conditions traffic patterns human activity etc. At the UAV may be indefinitely perched on the power line which the UAV monitors environmental conditions. Step is preferably applicable in embodiments where the UAV is a non vertical lift vehicle such as an airplane because subsequent takeoff may be difficult. However step may also be performed in embodiments where the UAV is a vertical takeoff vehicle such as a helicopter. In this embodiment the charging of the energy supplies with the inductive charging device is provided either continuously or repeatedly to provide energy for the one or more sensors.

Step the opening of the releasable latch to release the UAV from the perched position may optionally follow . Step is the launching of the UAV into an airborne state. Step maybe commence after step . Alternatively steps and may commence simultaneously. Launching is possible in embodiments in which the UAV is maintained in an upright orientation when in the perched position. For instance in the helicopter embodiment as illustrated in the rotor blades may be rotated prior to the opening of the releasable latch. As outlined above the perched upright orientation allows for the rotation of rotors free of contact with the overhead power line. Consequently when the releasable latch opens the helicopter has already generated lift forces to allow for hovering or upward takeoff. Alternatively in the airplane embodiment as illustrated in in the perched upright orientation the nose of the plane is marginally angled downwards to allow the UAV to glide downwards from the perched position when the releasable latch is opened. As outlined above in this method the lift forces may be generated solely by the wings of the vehicle. Alternatively the lift forces may be generated by a combination of the wings and the propulsion system when the vehicle is angled in such a manner that allows this. In an airplane embodiment the initial launching is a downward glide towards a ground surface with optional upward movement depending on the implementation of the propulsion system. The UAV may glide downwards until the UAV lands on a surface or has achieved a high enough velocity that upward motion is possible. If the UAV lands the UAV with the charged energy sources may subsequently takeoff to an airborne state.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example as opposed to the helicopter illustrated in C and a fixed pitch quad rotor vehicle may be employed as a vertical takeoff vehicle. Additionally alternative configurations for the releasable latch may be employed. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

