---

title: Outgoing call classification and disposition
abstract: An automated intelligent component (the Personal Virtual Assistant or PVA) is located between a caller and a callee. A caller calls the PVA and directs the PVA to make one or more calls to one or more call recipients. Based on the information obtained from a voice or text dialog with the caller and a combination of other available informational sources, the disposition of an outgoing call is determined and acted upon by PVA. During the call the PVA remains available to take further actions at the request of the call participants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08983051&OS=08983051&RS=08983051
owner: 
number: 08983051
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070403
---
Telephony encompasses the general use of equipment to provide voice communication over a distance. Plain old telephone service or POTS is the most basic form of residential and small business telephone service. POTS became available soon after the telephone system was introduced in the late 19th century and from the standpoint of the user has existed more or less unchanged ever since. POTS services include bi directional or full duplex voice path with a limited frequency range a dial tone and ringing signal subscriber dialing operator services such as directory assistance and long distance and conference calling. During the 1970s and 1980s new network services became available due to the creation of electronic telephone exchanges and computerization. New services included voice mail caller ID call waiting reminder calls and other similar services.

Advances in digital electronics have revolutionized telephony by providing alternate means of voice communication than those provided by traditional analog telephone systems. IP Telephony is a form of telephony which uses the TCP IP protocol popularized by the Internet to transmit digitized voice data. The routing of voice conversations over the Internet or through other IP networks is also called VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol . Digital telephony was introduced to improve voice services but was subsequently found to be very useful in the creation of new network services because it can transfer data quickly over telephone lines. Computer Telephony Integration CTI enables a computer to control phone functions such as making and receiving voice fax and data calls. The Session Initiation Protocol SIP is a signaling protocol used for creating modifying and terminating sessions voice or video calls with one or more participants. Sessions include Internet telephone calls multimedia distribution and multimedia conferences. Development of the SIP protocol was motivated by the need for a signaling and call setup protocol for IP based communications that could support the call processing functions and features present in the public switched telephone network PSTN using proxy servers and user agents.

All the advances in telephony however have not solved some very basic problems associated with actually reaching a desired party. It is often difficult to reach people by telephone. The caller dials a series of numbers or otherwise selects a number with which he seeks connection and hopes that the call will be connected to the callee s telephone and that the callee will answer the call. If the call is not connected because the telephone line is busy or because the caller has misdialed the number the caller will typically have to call back or leave a voice mail message in the hope that the callee will eventually listen to the message. Making frequent calls to the same service e.g. long distance or calling card services information services like banks typically requires repetitive input of information e.g. PINs Personal Identification Numbers that is prone to being incorrectly input or to being forgotten. Furthermore when a caller is placing a call he or she typically has no way to conduct other telephony communications other than those provided at the line level e.g. hold transfer conference functions .

An automated intelligent component called herein the Personal Virtual Assistant or PVA is located between a caller and one or more callees to simplify and optimize outbound dialing and call management within a telephony context. The PVA is invoked by a caller using voice or text commands. In addition to gaining information from a speech recognition dialog with the caller or from text based commands the PVA may elicit additional information from the caller. In addition the PVA may obtain additional information used in call disposition from one or more sources external to the PVA application including information available from the telephone system user location or presence information contact lists global enterprise wide and user specified preferences or rules for the caller concerning how a call to a particular callee groups of callees or classification of call is handled information gleaned from an automated speech recognition ASR processed dialog with the caller or others and automated user specific input or other facilities that may be useful over one or multiple calls. Based on this information the PVA makes the call or schedules a future call or performs other indicated call related functions.

After a connection is made between caller and callee the PVA may remain available to call participants. That is the PVA can stay on the line after the connection is made allowing the call participant to direct the PVA to perform additional functions by utilizing a whisper feature in which the PVA is invoked again. Because the PVA intercepts the datastream receiving the call data stream first and is responsible for passing the call data on to the other participants invoking the PVA can be done without the other participants being aware of it. The PVA may be directed via a textual interface such as for example where the caller is using an interactive instant text messaging IM service in which a session with the PVA is in progress or by voice commands. Suitable applications include consumer e.g. long distance telephone cards lists of friends and family etc. as well as to enterprise scenarios e.g. Call my boss when he is free and set up a conference. etc. .

A robust voice user interface called herein the Personal Virtual Assistant or PVA may be hosted on an enterprise communications server operating in real time. The communications server integrates with a number of known corporate telephone systems but can process any type of voice channel. The PVA can provide the following services caller identification mixed initiative multimodal call screening and negotiation personalized call routing structured message taking cross modal messaging voice dialing and voice enabled message access and configuration. The PVA can communicate with the caller classify the call and handle the disposition of the outgoing call.

Instead of a caller dialing a callee directly caller is a PVA user in some embodiments of the invention the caller dials the PVA and directs the PVA application by voice or by text to make a call to one or more call recipients. An automated speech recognition component of the PVA may be used to process the caller s voice input. The caller may be prompted for additional information by the PVA. Suppose for example the caller calls the PVA and says Call Joe Bloggs . The PVA may identify the caller by information available from the telephone system. In some embodiments of the invention the PVA has access to one or more contact lists e.g. the caller s contact list and a company wide contact list and can retrieve the callee s telephone number from the contact list. The PVA may also be able to determine the whereabouts status of the callee via a presence server and may dispose of the call in accordance with the status of the callee. If for example the status of the callee is available the PVA may dial the callee s number. If the line is busy the PVA may call again until the callee is reached. If the status of the callee is busy or do not disturb the PVA may leave a voice mail message if the status of the callee is in a meeting the PVA may send the callee a text message via a text messaging application. Disposition of the call may also be affected by directions received from the caller the caller may be asked if he would like to have the call retried every so many seconds minutes or other time period. If the caller so indicates the PVA may retry the call until the call is connected or until some default or specified maximum call number or call time period is reached. Alternatively the PVA may access rules administrator and user defined rules to determine when or how the call should be made. For example administrator defined rules may specify the hours of operation of an enterprise which user defined rules may override those hours for particular callees groups of callees types of calls etc. In some embodiments of the invention the PVA may receive store access and act upon information obtained from a previous call or calls. For example suppose the caller directs the PVA to Call my bank. The PVA may use a set of rules derived from previous interactions with the bank to conduct the call. For example an automated feature of the bank may be accessed wherein the PVA automatically provides PIN and account information via DTMF dual tone multi frequency or dial tone processing using information provided in previous calls made by the PVA. Suppose for example the caller directs the PVA to Call one of my team. The PVA may determine who the members of the team are from the caller s contact list form a pool of the members of the team who are online and attempt to call each one. The PVA may stop when a connection is made between the caller and the first reached callee. Suppose for example the caller directs the PVA to Call all of my team. The PVA may determine who the members of the team are from the caller s contact list form a pool of the members of the team who are online call each one and initiate a conference call connecting all the members of the team to the conference call.

In some embodiments of the invention the PVA remains available or on call to at least the caller after the call is connected or alternatively the PVA may remain available or on call to all the call participants. Thus while on the call the caller or other participant may indicate by pressing a button key or sequence of keys on the telephone for example or by saying a special word e.g. PVA that further interaction with the PVA is desired. In some embodiments the PVA intercepts the interaction requested message and does not pass this message on to the other participants so that the other participants can be unaware of the further interaction with the PVA. The interaction requesting participant may request the PVA to add another party to the call. For example the participant may ask the PVA to contact another person who is not currently in the call and either connect that person to the call or use another application to leave a message for the person asking him her to join the call. Notification of participants entering or leaving a conference is configurable by user settings. User settings may be configured to notify only the caller only the participants or both the caller and the participants. For example the PVA may notify the leader etc. of a conference when a participant enters or leaves the conference. The PVA may also enable the leader etc. to mute any of the participants may enable all participants to communicate and so on. A conference leader may call the PVA to set up a reservation for a call. Other on call features include voice roll call announcing each call participant when he is connected joining and leaving announcements identification of a speaker to a participant who requests this information mute self mute other participants add a participant by voice dialing them into the call remove a participant by ending the call for that participant and so on. Hence the PVA may help someone initiate a conference upon being directed to Schedule a conference with Participant 1 . . . Participant n . The conference may be scheduled now or at a specified time or when the participants are available. Thus the PVA may access outside applications such as a calendar keeping application to determine when the requested participants are available.

In some embodiments of the invention the PVA may perform outbound calling based on interactive text messaging or IM based directions. For example an IM user may send an instant message to the PVA directing the PVA to call one or more telephone numbers contacts. An instant message may be delivered via text or via TTS text to speech generation to the specified entities by the PVA for the PVA user. For example a PVA user may send a message such as Stuck in a meeting will not be able to make lunch today. Go on without me. to a specified list of callees. Voice messages to the callees may be generated by pre recording messages and specifying the pre recorded message to be sent via a pre populated drop down control for example or may be generated dynamically at runtime using a TTS engine within the PVA. In this case the caller interacts with the callee as if it were an IM session by typing text into the input pane and the PVA retrieves the text and generates a voice message from the retrieved text using TTS. The callee thus hears the message translated to voice as a telephone call received from the PVA.

Although not required the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface API for use by a developer and or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers PCs automated teller machines server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A graphics interface such as Northbridge may also be connected to the system bus . Northbridge is a chipset that communicates with the CPU or host processing unit and assumes responsibility for accelerated graphics port AGP communications. One or more graphics processing units GPUs may communicate with graphics interface . In this regard GPUs generally include on chip memory storage such as register storage and GPUs communicate with a video memory . GPUs however are but one example of a coprocessor and thus a variety of coprocessing devices may be included in computer . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface which may in turn communicate with video memory . In addition to monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other client device can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. The present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. The present invention may also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

While callee may or may not be a PVA user in caller is a PVA user and is calling the callee via his PVA . In response to receiving caller s call to PVA a dialog with PVA may be initiated by PVA or by the caller . During this dialog information may be received from caller from which PVA can determine who and how to contact the callee . PVA may prompt the caller for additional information if the information provided is insufficient or ambiguous.

Thus instead of caller dialing callee directly caller is a PVA user in some embodiments of the invention caller dials PVA and directs the PVA application by voice or by text input into an interactive text messaging application in which the PVA is a participant in a session. An automated speech recognition component of PVA may be used to process caller s voice input. An automated text to speech component of PVA may translate text to voice. The caller may be prompted for additional information. Additional information useful or required to make the call may be retrieved from a number of sources including a presence server a contact list administrator defined rules and user defined rules . If for example caller calls PVA and says Call Joe Bloggs. in some embodiments of the invention PVA accesses caller s contact list retrieves Joe Blogg s telephone number from the contact list and dials the retrieved number. If the line is busy further input may be requested from caller . For example caller may be asked if he would like to have the call retried every so many seconds minutes or other time period. If caller so indicates PVA may retry the call until the call is connected or until some default or specified maximum call number or call time period is reached. Similarly these call preferences may be pre defined in a set of user defined or administrator defined rules . In some embodiments of the invention PVA may receive store access and act upon information obtained from a previous call or calls. For example if caller directs PVA to Call my bank. PVA may use a set of rules derived from previous interactions with the bank and stored in user defined rules data store to contact the bank. Further the rules for contacting the bank may include rules for engaging an automated feature of the bank may automatically provide PIN and account information etc. via DTMF dual tone multi frequency or dial tone processing and so on. If caller directs PVA to Call one of my team. PVA may determine who the members of the team are from caller s contact list form a pool of the members of the team who are online using presence server to determine who is online and attempt to call each one. PVA may stop when a connection is made between caller and the first reached one of the specified callees as represented by callee . If caller directs PVA to Call all of my team. PVA may determine who the members of the team are from the caller s contact list form a pool of the members of the team who are online using presence server to determine who is online call each one and initiate a conference call connecting all the members of the team to the conference call.

In some embodiments of the invention and as illustrated in PVA remains available or on call to the caller after the call is connected or alternatively PVA may remain available or on call to all the call participants. Thus while on the call the caller or other participant may indicate by pressing a button key or sequence of keys on the telephone for example or by saying a special word e.g. PVA that further interaction with the PVA is desired. In some embodiments PVA intercepts the interaction requested message and does not pass this message on to the other participants as represented by callees in so that the other participants can be unaware of the further interaction with PVA . The interaction requesting participant may request PVA to add another party to the call. PVA in response to this direction may determine how to reach the second callee callee and dial callee . Upon connection PVA may announce to callee contextual information and add callee to the call between caller and callee . PVA may notify the leader of a conference when a participant enters or leaves the conference may enable the leader to mute any of the participants may enable all participants to communicate and so on. A conference leader may call PVA to set up a reservation for a call. Other on call features include voice roll call announcing each call participant when he is connected joining and leaving announcements identification of a speaker to a participant who requests this information a mute self function a mute other participants function all or specific ones add a participant by pressing a combination of keys on a telephone or computer and request the PVA to add a specified participant using voice commands. Similarly the PVA may be directed to remove a participant by ending the call for that participant and so on. Hence PVA may help someone initiate a conference upon being directed to Schedule a conference with Participant 1 . . . Participant n . The conference may be scheduled now or at a specified time or when the participants are available. Thus PVA in as in and may also access a presence server to determine a status or location of the callee s . Outside applications such as a calendar keeping application may also be accessed to determine when the requested participants are available.

In as in and PVA may examine a Contact list for the number of the callee identified by the caller . If the received direction is ambiguous there are two Joe Bloggs in the contact list PVA may consult rules or to disambiguate the direction. If disambiguation attempts are not successful PVA may attempt to elicit additional information from caller . The dialog that collects the information from the caller may be open ended and make use of mixed initiative dialog strategies where the speech recognizer attempts to make a best guess based on global grammars or it may implement a system driven strategy with categories for selection based on predefined menus such as PVA What is the topic Please say work related non work related or confidential enabling much simpler grammars to be used.

In some embodiments of the invention PVA may perform outbound calling based on text directions provided by IM user in an instant text messaging session with PVA as illustrated in . For example an IM user may send an instant message to PVA directing the PVA in text to call one or more telephone numbers contacts and specifying a message to be delivered to the callee . An instant message may be delivered via text or via TTS to the specified entities by PVA for the PVA user. Alternatively PVA may initiate a telephone call to callee and provide a voice message generated from IM user s text message using TTS. For example a PVA user such as IM user may send a message such as Stuck in a meeting will not be able to make lunch today. Go on without me. to callee or to a specified list of callees via a text messaging session with PVA . Voice messages to the callees may also be generated by pre recording messages and specifying the pre recorded message to be sent via a pre populated drop down control or may be generated dynamically at runtime using a TTS engine within the PVA. In this case the caller interacts with the callee as if it were an IM session by typing text into the input pane. PVA retrieves the text and generates a voice message from the retrieved text using TTS. The callee thus hears the message translated to voice as a telephone call received from the PVA.

The various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the present invention or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may utilize the creation and or implementation of domain specific programming models aspects of the present invention e.g. through the use of a data processing API or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiments for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

