---

title: Triangular rollable and collapsible boom
abstract: An elastic space-deployable boom of carbon fiber reinforced plastic or other resilient material having an open substantially triangular cross-section when deployed and stowed with a flattened cross-section about a circular hub.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07895795&OS=07895795&RS=07895795
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07895795
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071022
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph I a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The present invention relates generally to spacecraft deployable structures and more particularly to a boom architecture that can be flattened and furled and has a large cross section inertia.

The subject booms have a deployed configuration where they are used as beam like structural elements to carry bending and column loads. Boom bending stiffness characterizes this configuration and increases with increasing structural depth cross section diameter material thickness and material stiffness. These booms also have a furled packaged configuration characterized by roll diameter and height. Prior booms related to the current invention include the Storable Tubular Extendable Member STEM shown in and the lenticular boom which is sometimes referred to as the Collapsible Tubular Mast CTM shown in . These booms can be stowed around a circular hub where they transition from a flattened configuration to a structurally deeper deployed shape. The STEM is composed of a single strip that in the deployed state curls to form a circular cross section. Although this configuration is simple to fabricate and package it results in a tall packaged height relative to the deployed boom diameter. Additionally large strains are required to furl the boom. The lenticular boom is made from a pair of symmetric bell shaped halves bonded at the edges. It flattens similar to a STEM but for the same deployed diameter has half the packaged height as the STEM and requires less strain to flatten.

One embodiment of the current invention the Triangular Rollable and Collapsible TRAC boom shown in achieves greater deployed structural depth and due to its smaller flattening strains allows thicker materials than previous booms. These features combine to allow the fabrication of a much stiffer deployable boom with shorter packaged height.

The Triangular Reliable and Collapsible TRAC boom is a boom structure composed of a resilient material that is elastically deployable from a flattened configuration stowed around a circular hub to a deployed configuration having an open substantially triangular cross section formed from two curved flanges attached at their upper portions. This results in a large cross section inertia to packaged height ratio compared to Storable Tubular Extendable Member STEM and Collapsible Tubular Mast CTM architectures. While this design somewhat decreases the torsional stiffness of the boom sufficient torsional stiffness remains such that bending stiffness is the limiting measure of performance for most applications. In addition the strain required to flatten the flanges of a TRAC boom are smaller than previous booms allowing for thicker flange materials to be used. The combination of thicker materials and a larger deployed cross section results in a boom that has much greater bending stiffness than alternate technologies. Predicted performance of the TRAC boom indicate 10 times greater bending stiffness than a CTM boom with the same packaged height and material and 34 times greater bending stiffness than a STEM boom.

As seen in the cross sectional view of and in the Triangular Rollable and Collapsible TRAC boom consists of a ridge where the upper portion of two curved flanges are attached to one another forming an open substantially triangular cross section in its deployed configuration. The boom is designed such that in the stowed position its two curved flanges are pinched together allowing it to furl around a circular hub as seen in . The key to achieving the rolling capability is that the flanges are elastically stable in the rolled configuration e.g. the interior boom flange that is in compression does not bifurcate in the stowed configuration where the curved flanges are forced into a flat configuration. The resilient material employed the radius of curvature of the flange arc and the thickness of the flanges determine the strain required to flatten the cross section. A smaller radius of curvature of the flange arcs leads to a stiffer boom but if too small the material will crack when pinched flat as it is wrapped around the circular hub. The maximum size of this radius is limited by the need to keep the bending stiffness of the cross section isotropic. A very large radius results in a significantly lower boom lateral bending stiffness. Consequently a trade off must be made for a given resilient material between the bending stiffness obtained for a given radius of the flange arc versus the requirement of not exceeding the strain limit of the material as it is furled around a circular hub.

One objective of the present invention was to develop a boom architecture with a large cross section inertia to packaged height ratio compared to the STEM and CTM architectures . The baseline design for a particular resilient material carbon fiber reinforced plastic CFRP is discussed in detail below as well as the methods used to determine the best TRAC boom geometry for this material. A finite element analysis was used to predict TRAC s stiffness and buckling strength properties. shows the dimensions of the baseline design used for the prediction and measurement of TRAC s mechanical properties. Results of boom cross section inertial calculations for the three boom designs shown in are given in the table. As can be seen in the table the TRAC configuration has ten times more cross section inertia for the same packaged height than the lenticular configuration and 34 times more than the STEM configuration . The same design process detailed here can be used by those skilled in the art to produce TRAC booms for other resilient materials having similar substantially open triangular cross section designs.

The TRAC boom is designed such that in the stowed position its two flanges are pinched together allowing it to furl around a circular hub . The key to achieving this capability is that it is elastically stable in the pinched and rolled configuration e.g. the flanges do not bifurcate while in the rolled configuration. Bifurcation is sensitive to three parameters the radius at which the boom is rolled the lateral bending stiffness when pinched and the symmetry about the horizontal centerline i.e. all CFRP piles must be continuous from bottom to top . After several iterations of CFRP boom ply orientations it was determined that the best stacking sequence to balance these effects was 0 tape 45 weave 0 tape for each boom flange 0 is the long axis of the boom . These two laminates overlap at the ridge to form a 0 45 0 0 45 0 baseline stacking sequence. These relationships only hold for a very specific laminate stacking sequence where all plies must be continuous from top ridge to bottom flange where each flange laminate is symmetric about the vertical centerline where the overall laminate is symmetric about the vertical centerline and where the outermost plies are axial uni tape piles. Note that these conditions allow the addition of uni tape piles. For example an alternate acceptable laminate is 0 0 45 0 0 0 0 45 0 0 . The addition uni tape piles has the benefit of increasing boom bending and torsion stiffness but at the penalty of a larger boom rolled diameter.

The flange radius of the baseline design shown in of 1.27 cm was selected to allow flattening pinching of the flanges without fiber failure. This geometry is also advantageous because it provides a curved surface to constrain the boom during deployment and furling operations. In general the means for attaching the two flanges together to form a ridge joint can be any method known to those skilled in the art for the particular resilient flange material chosen as long as the ridge joint is strong enough to endure the shear stresses that are induced during boom wrapping. The portion of the flange height used for the ridge joint would vary with the means used for attaching the two flanges together. For CFRP a ridge joint fastening the two rectangular flanges of the baseline design together should occupy approximately the top quarter of the flange height and the bottom three quarters of the flange height should curve outward from the ridge with a radius of curvature R of approximately half of the flange height. This may be done during the initial fabrication process when the boom is cured. This ridge joint is formed once and is permanent.

A finite element model FEM of a 0.610 meter long boom was created using ABAQUS a commercial finite element analysis program and is shown in along with the boundary conditions. The nodes at the fixed and of the boom were fully constrained encastre . The nodes at the free end were tied together translations and rotations to form a rigid cross section. Enforced rotations were incrementally increased on a reference point coupled to the rigid cross section to determine the boom s stiffness and strength properties.

The FEM was first used in a linear analysis design trade to optimize the boom s bending stiffness. From the enforced rotations a resisting moment was calculated by the FEM solver and used to determine bending stiffness by the relation Where E is Young s Modulus of the boom material I is the cross section moment of inertia M is the bending moment applied to the boom L is the length of the boom test article and is the boom angular rotation.

The flange flare angle was selected based on a design trade that tracked bending stiffness as a function of flange flare angle. Minimizing the radius of curvature maximizes the amount of flange material moved away from the neutral axis for a given flare angle. This in turn maximizes the lateral bending stiffness for the open substantially triangular cross section design. The model was iterated between flare angles of 60 to 170 and determined EI in both x and y directions as defined in . Results of the design trade are shown in the plot of . The bending stiffnesses in the x and y directions do not converge they plateau as flange flare angle is increased. To maximize the bending stiffness of the deployed cross section while meeting the package height requirement a flange flare angle of 170 was selected as seen in .

Testing was done to compare the CFRP TRAC boom design s x and y axis bending stiffnesses to the FEM predictions. The test results were close to predictions. The boom exhibited no sign of buckling or laminate damage during loading and unloading. Further details of the test results can be found in Roybal F. A. Banik J. A. and Murphey T. W. Development of an Elastically Deployable Boom for Tensioned Planar Structures 48AIAA ASME ASCE AHS ASC Structures Structural Dynamics and Materials Conf. 23 26 Apr. 2007 AIAA 2007 1838 that is hereby incorporated by reference.

Other resilient materials may be used for TRAC such as beryllium copper stainless steel glass reinforced plastic or Kevlar reinforced plastic. The thickness of the material the radius of curvature R of the flanges the ridge height and method of attachment would be determined using a similar analysis to that detailed above for CFRP. The flange radius for example should be selected so as to be the minimum radius to which the selected material can withstand the act of flattening the boom cross section during stowage around a circular hub.

