---

title: Magnetically-and electrically-induced variable resistance materials and method for preparing same
abstract: Provided are new compositions of ruthenates in the pervoskite and layered pervoskite family, wherein the ruthenate compositions exhibit large magnetoresistance (MR) and electric-pulse-induced resistance (EPIR) switching effects, the latter observable at room temperature. This is the first time large MR and EPIR effects have been shown together in ruthenate compositions. Further provided are methods for synthesizing the class of ruthenates that exhibits such properties, as well as methods of use therefor in electromagnetic devices, thin films, sensors, semiconductors, insulators and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08652347&OS=08652347&RS=08652347
owner: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
number: 08652347
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070423
---
This application claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 10 390 362 filed Mar. 17 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 211 199 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

This invention was supported in part by Grant Nos. DMR 00 79909 and DMR 99 88853 from the National Science Foundation. Accordingly the Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a new class of magnetically and electrically induced variable resistance materials having a large magnetoresistance effect MR and a large electric pulse induced resistance switching effect EPIR and a method for preparing said materials.

Magnetoresistance MR effects are utilized to detect variations within a magnetic field by converting into variations of resistance. Materials that exhibit MR effect also often exhibit spin polarization ability. Therefore they can form spin valves to transmit signals based on spin polarization. Recent advances in data storage technologies have been based upon the use of multilayer metallic thin films that exhibit giant magnetoresistance GMR e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 977 017 Golden et al. . MR based devices e.g. magnetoresistors magnetic heads to detect signals of a magnetic recorder or probes of a spin polarized scanning type tunneling microscope have the advantage of high immunity to radiation damage. Thus data storage is indestructible even under adverse operating or storage conditions.

Oxides are known to have large MR properties. In a class of oxide materials called manganates see below such large MR has been termed colossal magnetoresistance CMR . Ramirez 9 8171 8199 1997 . CMR is also commonly used to refer to the large MR observed in similar oxides as manganates when cobalt is used to replace manganese called cobatates.

In addition to the large MR effect oxides are also known to exhibit electric pulse induced resistance EPIR properties. Liu et al. 76 19 2740 2752 2000 . EPIR switching effects are utilized to permanently change resistance until a reverse electrical pulse is applied. Liu et al. teach a method for switching the properties of perovskite materials used in thin film resistors by applying short electrical pulses to change both reversibly and non reversibly the electrical thermal mechanical and magnetic properties of the material without damaging it Liu et al. 76 2749 2751 1999 U.S. Pat. No. 6 204 139 . This permits the formation of memory devices and resistors in electronic circuits that can be varied in resistance. Materials exhibiting an EPIR effect are useful as non volatile rewritable memory cells to store information in microelectronic devices. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 473 332 Ignatiev et al. teaches an electrically operated overwritable multivalued non volatile resistive memory element that includes a two terminal non volatile memory device using CMR oxide film material and a defined circuit topological configuration that takes advantage of the variable EPIR effect of the thin film material.

For the purpose of the present application perovskite compositions refer to the formula ABO in which A represents a metal that may be drawn from alkali alkali earth rare earth or other metal such as potassium strontium lanthanum neodymium cerium yttrium lead bismuth or the like and B represents a transition metal such as cobalt iron nickel or the like. Perovskite actually can have even broader compositions for metal substitution as will become clear later in the following description. Perovskite type materials have long been known to be useful for the catalytic oxidation and reduction reactions associated with the control of automotive exhaust emissions U.S. Pat. No. 4 107 163 Donohue but the electrical conductivity characteristics of the material are more recently discovered such as the CMR effect observed in manganites when B represents manganese Mn and cobatates when B represents cobalt Co Ramirez 1997 . Kobayashi et al. also made various studies on other non Mn and non Co ordered perovskite oxide crystals and identified a MR phenomenon permitting the development of a magnetoresistor that is an oxide crystal with an ordered double perovskite crystal structure Kobayashi et al. 395 677 680 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 6 137 395 . See below on Sr FeMo Oand Sr FeRe O .

As made clear from above for the purpose of the present application manganates refer to a known class of perovskite oxides in which B represents manganese Mn . Many manganates have CMR properties. Consequently upon application of a magnetic field the electrical resistivity of the material drops drastically due to a field induced switching of the crystal structure. However manganate MR is limited to a certain temperature range in which the magnetic field can promote or in some compounds induce a phase transition. The resistance response to the magnetic field is often hysteretic in that a different resistance is found at the same magnetic field depending on the history of the field such as whether the field has been increasing or decreasing. In addition there is significant 1 f noise associated with circuits comprising manganate MR materials. It is generally accepted that in perovskite compositions manganese may be held in both the trivalent Mn state and the tetravalent Mn state and that such mixed valency is an essential element for the phase transition and the resultant large MR properties of the compound. Very similar mixed valency also exists in cobaltates that exhibit CMR effect.

Some manganates and cobaltates exhibit both CMR and EPIR effects. Generally most EPIR effects were observed in thin films across which a large electrical field may be achieved using a relatively modest electrical voltage. For example Liu et al. describes such effect in CMR PrCa MnOthin films. Liu 2000 . In the patent of Liu et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 204 139 an additional cobaltate of a metal composition GdCaBaCOwas described as having EPIR properties. According to Liu et al U.S. Pat. No. 6 204 139 B1 other oxide materials of the perovskite related families that exhibit EPIR effect include YBaCuOwhich is also known to possess high Tc superconductivity.

Mixed valency also appears to be important for the EPIR effect. The manganate that is best known for having the EPIR effect PrCa MnO contains 70 Mn and 30 Mn. Both cobaltateand the high Tc superconductor described above are known to have mixed valency. However at least in the case of manganates a disadvantage of such mixed valency is that manganates are sensitive to surface conditions. As a result Mn ions at a surface that is exposed to air vacuum or other atmospheric or liquid environment or at the interface that is adjacent to another solid material can have different degrees of mixed valency distinct from those in the interior depending on the moisture and chemical nature of the environment. As a result of such sensitivity the magnetic MR and electrical EPIR responses of the resistivity are sometimes difficult to control or predict. In addition mixed valency is sensitive to radiation laser illumination and other non magnetic and non electrical stimuli which could also affect the magnitude of the observed MR and EPIR effect.

Several other families of oxides are also known to exhibit large MR effects or large EPIR effects but not both. One family of oxides that have been known to have large MR properties is based on the composition Sr FeMo Omentioned previously which also has a perovskite type structure ABO. In this case however B is comprised in equal parts of Fe and Mo which are ordered. Thus Fe and Mo are located on alternating sites in a checkerboard type of arrangement. The MR capability of this material results from a tunneling effect across grain boundaries. Therefore substantial magnetoresistance is lost when Sr FeMo Ois formed into a single crystal or an epitaxial film. It is believed that a 1 1 ordered cation arrangement is important for its magnetoresistance properties. However disadvantageously Mo in the above compound has a valence state of Mo as opposed to the more common Mo state therefore a careful preparation under a reducing atmosphere or vacuum is required to form such compounds. Another ordered perovskite Sr FeRe O reportedly exhibits similar MR properties and suffers from the same limitations. These compounds are not known to exhibit EPIR effect.

By comparison Beck et al. have claimed a large number of oxide families that reportedly exhibit EPIR effect PCT application PCT IB00 0043 . However the examples in the PCT application and publications by the same group of researchers at IBM Zurich reveal that only the following oxides demonstrated the claimed EPIR effect doped BaSrTiO when doped with p type chromium or manganese or n type vanadium or niobium dopants chromium doped SrZrO doped CaNbOand doped TaOwith chromium or vanadium as dopants see Beck et al. 77 1 139 141 2000 Watanabe et al. 78 23 3738 3740 2001 Rossel et al. 90 6 2892 2898 2001 . Earlier reports also indicated that AlO NbO TiO TaOand NiO may exhibit memory behavior based on current induced bistable resistance switching or voltage controlled negative resistance phenomena see references cited by Beck et al. 2000 . None of the cited materials however exhibit a large MR effect.

Many ruthenate oxides on the other hand are known to be excellent conductors. For example strontium ruthenate SrRuO which is also a perovskite is often used as a bottom electrode material in electronic devices Eom et al. 258 1766 1769 1992 Eom et al. 63 2570 2572 1993 Tiwari et al. 64 634 636 1994 Klein et al. 188 319 325 1998 FIG. 1 of PCT IB00 00043 . SrRuOitself is metallic and ferromagnetic Longo et al. 39 1327 1328 1968 which is unique among 4d transition metal oxides. It has a very small 0.5 4 MR restricted to a narrow temperature range near the ferromagnetic paramagnetic transition temperature. When SrRuOelectrodes were used in place of the Pt layer in Pb Zr Ti O based ferroelectric memory devices they alleviated the problem of polarization fatigue Eom et al. 1993 . It is however not known to have EPIR effect.

The ABOperovskite structure of SrRuOalso makes it compatible with other similar compounds allowing its incorporation as an epitaxial thin film or buffer layer in heteroepitaxial device structures built on perovskite oxides Tiwari et al. 1994 . Further substitution of Ru by other transition metal ions Mn Fe Co etc. has been reported to create new magnetic properties ranging from colossal magnetoresistance e.g. in Sm Ca Ru Mn O with Ru in amount considerably less than Mn Raveau et al. 14 217 229 2001 to spin glass behavior e.g. in Sr FeRu O Battle et al. 78 281 293 1989 . Related Ru based compounds further display an exceptionally rich variety of electronic and magnetic properties ranging from paramagnetic e.g. in CaRuO to superconducting e.g. in SrRuO while retaining metallicity Longo et al. 1968 Maeno et al. 372 532 534 1994 . None of these Ru based compounds or transition metal substituted ruthnates are known to have EPIR effect.

Another ruthenate composition TlSrRuO Tl Sr Ru at a ratio of 1 2 1 which is believed to have a layered structure that is derived from perovskite were reported to have magnetic transitions e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 434 Shimakawa et al. . As a result magnetoresistance in the vicinity of the transitions have been observed. This material is highly toxic however because of the presence of Tl. It is also not known to have EPIR effect.

A review of the ruthenate literature reveals that no EPIR effect has been reported but considerable difficulties have been encountered in synthesizing these compounds. Consequently highly uniform materials free of second phases or heterogeneous clusters are difficult to obtain using standard solid state reactions of mixed starting oxide powders. Often very long calcination and or laborious regrinding and remixing is needed especially when two B site cations are desired in the resulting compound Battle et al. 1989 Kim et al. 114 174 183 1995 He et al. 63 172403 2001 . It is also known that even minor second phases and small heterogeneous clusters can have a considerable effect on the magnetic and electrical properties of these compounds Kim et al. 1995 He et al. 2001 .

Accordingly there has until the present invention existed a need for commercially useful material exhibiting both MR and EPIR properties that is non toxic and easily integrable with electrode and other materials for device applications without suffering from drawbacks such as sensitivity to surface environment. High purity ruthenate perovskites might satisfy that need if they and their related compounds were not so difficult to form by conventional ceramic processing routes using mixed starting oxide powders and solid state reactions. Thus there has been a further need until the present invention for a production method for synthesizing chemically uniform ruthenates and doped ruthenates that exhibit both large MR and EPIR effects wherein the method significantly reduces the processing time and results in excellent compositional uniformity as verified by diffraction and magnetic measurements.

The present invention teaches new compositions of ruthenates that exhibit large magnetoresistance MR and electric pulse induced resistance EPIR switching effects the latter observable at room temperature. This is the first time that both large MR and EPIR effects have been reported together in ruthenates in the pervoskite and layered pervoskite related family of compounds. Previously no composition having a majority of ruthenium no less than 50 in B were known to have large MR. The present invention therefore also teaches methods for synthesizing this large class of ruthenates in the perovskite related family that exhibits such properties. Since the applications of both MR and EPIR require the use of an electrode whereas SrRuOand several other ruthenates are already recognized as excellent electrode materials ruthenate electrodes and MR or EPIR active ruthenate films or devices can be advantageously constructed. These constructions have the additional advantage of structural and chemical compatibility. At ambient conditions ruthenates are also chemically stable and do not suffer from varied valence states according to the surface environment.

It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a nontoxic magnetically and electrically induced variable resistance composition comprising a ruthenate formulation of the perovskite family of materials wherein the ruthenate exhibits large MR. It is a further object to provide a nontoxic magnetically and electrically induced variable resistance composition comprising a ruthenate formulation of the perovskite family of materials wherein the ruthenate exhibits an EPIR switching effect. Moreover it is a preferred object to provide a nontoxic magnetically and electrically induced variable resistance composition comprising a ruthenate formulation of the perovskite family of materials wherein the ruthenate exhibits both large MR and an EPIR switching effect. The large MR effect occurs over a broad range of temperatures.

It is also an object to provide compositions comprising an oxide formulation represented by A RuM O where 0

It is another object to provide compositions comprising a spin glass formulation represented by A RuM O where n is any positive integer 0

Ruthenates of the above compositions and their structural families are advantageously used in accordance with the invention in microelectronic or optical devices such as but without limitation magnetic sensors a thin film between metals or semiconductors or insulators or oxides or any combination of the above which take advantage of or benefit from the MR or EPIR properties of the provided ruthenates.

Compared to solid state reactions using mixed starting oxides the solution polymerization method significantly decreases the processing time and improves the compositional uniformity of the ruthenate compounds. The method especially offers a clear advantage in processing doped ruthenate compounds allowing magnetic properties of new ruthenates to be sensitively studied without the complication of impurity phases or inhomogeneous clusters. Accordingly it is a further object of the invention to provide a method of preparing a nontoxic magnetically and electrically induced variable resistance ruthenate compositions of the types described above comprising preparing a ruthenate solution and processing said solution by a sol gel solution polymerization method such that there is a uniform and homogeneous distribution of source cations that were chelated in the subsequently polymerized precursor. The composition is preferably of may be of polycrystalline or mixed ruthenate form wherein the polycrystalline form is of the formula SrRuO and wherein the starting material comprises RuO.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description examples and figures which follow all of which are intended to be for illustrative purposes only and not intended in any way to limit the invention and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art on examination of the following or may be learned by practice of the invention.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment the present invention includes a family of ruthenates characterized by the perovskite oxide formula A RuM O that when synthesized exhibit i a large MR effect over a broad range of temperatures and ii an electrical EPIR effect at room temperature. In the formula A RuM O x is preferably greater than 0 and smaller than 1 M is preferably chosen from the group consisting of the following magnetic elements Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co and Ni or any mixture thereof and A is preferably chosen from the following K Ca Sr Ba Pb Bi La Ce Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb and Y or any mixture thereof . Preferably 0.1

By mixture is meant the combination of two or more compounds selected from the foregoing lists using recognized methods. For example either Ca or Sr may be used individually in the formulation at position A or a mixture of any number of the compositions listed for the A position may be mixed such as a combination of Ca and Sr together as a mixture which mixture may then instead be used in the formula at position A. Similarly any number of the compositions listed for position M may also be mixed to fill the M position in the formulation. Thus two or more of the various components of the starting materials can be combined to pre react for example before finally combining together in the final formulation. Mixture in this situation however does not usually refer to the mixing of the selected compositions listed for position A with those listed for position M in the formulation. Some elements such as Y and Tb may naturally enter both position A and position M. However these are exceptions and not rule.

The source or starting materials for the formulation can be selected from purified forms of the metals salts or other forms because once it has been added to the formula for the final perovskite product each component exists as an ion. For example Ru metal may be used to replace RuOas a starting material.

In addition to the oxides mentioned above which are all perovskites or related to perovskites having structures consisting of a network of BOoctahedra where B is a metal cation where B includes both Ru and M in accordance with an alternative embodiment the present invention includes an additional class of octahedral network materials that contains mostly BO although such network is grouped into layers. One such family of layered perovskite materials is represented by A RuM O in which x is preferably greater than 0 and smaller than 1 where M is preferably chosen from the group consisting of the following magnetic elements Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co and Ni or its mixture and A is preferably chosen from the group consisting of K Ca Sr Ba Pb Bi La Ce Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb and Y or its mixture . Optionally other elements including Sc Y Zr Nb Hf Ta Al Ga Ge and Sn may also be incorporated as M in minority to vary the magnitude of electrical resistance.

The present invention also includes other layered perovskite ruthenates of the formula A RuM O where n is any positive integer and A and M are similarly comprised as described above. Thus A RuM O mentioned above belongs to this family in the special case of n equal to one. Large MR effects that are enhanced at low temperatures and large EPIR effects at room temperature can be expected in these materials.

The thus prepared Ru rich perovskites and layered perovskites containing magnetic elements have large electrical resistance change under magnetic stimulation at low temperatures the MR effect . They can also be prepared in air without difficulty unlike some of the other magnetoresistant oxides for which a deliberate preparation under a reducing atmosphere or vacuum is needed. At room temperature they can have large electrical resistance change under the stimulation of a large electrical field the EPIR effect which may be caused by a small voltage when the materials are in the form of a thin film.

Although Ru has been used as an additive to manganates to alter their properties in the prior art Ru has not been the primary component of the composition. Although mixed valency may occur in Ru in certain compositions of the foregoing for example when Co is present the presence of the large MR and EPIR in the preferred embodiments of the invention is not sensitive to whether Ru has mixed valency or not.

In accordance with the present invention any known chemical method of mixing elements and forming powders or ceramics may be used to form the bulk materials such as the sol gel methods or standard ceramic processing methods e.g. metallo organic decomposition methods or chemical vapor deposition methods. A preferred synthetic method to prepare the ruthenate materials of the present invention is the sol gel method as described in Examples that follow.

However the ruthenate materials can also be synthesized by standard ceramic processing methods as used to form bulk materials. For example to obtain SrLa RuFe O starting materials such as SrCO LaO RuO and FeOpowders were first mixed using standard mixing techniques such as hand mortar mixing ball milling or attrition milling then fired at various temperatures for various times from 750 C. to 1200 C. to obtain a uniform powder of the SrLa RuFe Ocomposition. The powder was preferably verified for example using powder x ray diffraction XRD . Based upon the diffraction pattern the resulting material was classified as an orthorhombic type of perovskite. The powder was then compacted and sintered to high density to produce the resulting material commonly referred to as ceramic for magnetic and electrical applications. However the presence of other minority phases in the composition has no significant effect on the resulting large MR and EPIR effects. In fact the existence of selected minority phases in the composition may be advantageous under certain conditions.

Common phases that may coexist with the above perovskite include for example SrRuOwhich has a ferromagnetic transition various layered perovskites that have a higher ratio of Ru M to A than one as in the form of A RuM O the ratio of B to A is one if B is viewed as RuM and other forms of ABOcompounds whose structures are not perovskite based and RuO. The small modification of structure in the lattice parameter or in the unit cell distortion which may be introduced by using different elements among M and different elements among A may also be practiced. This can be advantageous for example in preparing thin films when the lattice matching of the film and the substrate crystals is important for maintaining the film quality. Likewise when ruthenates of various layered perovskite structures are prepared for example SrLa RuFe O of the A RuM Ofamily common phases that may coexist without deleterious effect on MR and EPIR effects include for example SrRuO as well as other forms of ABOcompounds whose structures are either perovskite or not perovskite based or various other layered perovskites that have a ratio other than 2 of A to Ru M as in A RuM O or RuO.

The magnetoresistance of the material is preferably verified by measurement of electrical resistance as a function of magnetic field. Typically this is performed by using the four point probe method and electrical resistance decreases with the magnetic field. A dependence of the electrical resistance with the magnetic field is shown for three compositions SrLa RuFe O SrLa RuFe O and SrLa RuFe O in . The percentage of resistance change increases with decreasing temperature for all three compositions. Examples of other compositions include replacing Fe in group M by one or more of other elements from the group of Ti V Cr Mn Co and Ni and replacing A by one or more of other elements from the group of K Ca Sr Ba Pb Bi La Ce Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb and Y. illustrates the effect of replacing Fe by Co replacing Sr by Ca and replacing La by Pr respectively. Nevertheless as shown in large MR is observed in all cases. Most likely at least some Cr Mn Fe Co or Ni is needed for a MR effect although for EPIR the restriction are less stringent.

The materials prepared in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention may also be used in thin film form. For example it may be used to prepare a magnetic sensor or a nonvolatile resistive memory element. Ceramic ruthenates may also be used as a target to form thin films on a selected substrate using standard deposition techniques such as but without limitation multi target pulse laser deposition PLD with targets of individual oxides DC and radiofrequency RF sputtering magnetron sputtering ion beam sputter deposition and reactive physical vapor deposition these methods require a ceramic target . Other standard thin film deposition techniques that may or may not require a ceramic target such as but without limitation metal organic CVD reactive physical vapor deposition slurry coating electrophoretic deposition and sintering high velocity flame spraying as well as sol gel spin coating process or any mixture of the described methods may also be employed as are standard deposition methods that use metal rather than ceramic targets. In one preferred embodiment thin films are prepared using the sputtering technique. In another sol gel processes are preferred. In yet another the PLD technique targets made of material of the required composition prepared by the sol gel process or standard ceramic process are ablated by an excimer UV laser to produce a thin film material of the same composition on the supplied substrate. Depending on the substrate type and temperature during deposition polycrystalline or single crystal thin films can be prepared.

The present invention also provides a method for preparing a thin film magnetic sensor formed on a substrate. The thin film magnetic sensor is made of a magnetoresistive material prepared in the manner described above with electrical contacts arranged in the four point configuration. By choosing the appropriate composition the electrical resistance that decreases nearly linearly with the applied field up to at least 9 T can be obtained. Epitaxial and single crystal thin films are often obtained when single crystals are used as substrates. However commonly such films have the same MR effect as in the bulk ceramics whether the films are epitaxial or not see in Example 1 that follows for a composition of SrLaRuFeOon a single crystal oxide substrate . Such a sensor can be advantageously used at low temperature under a high field for example in the superconducting coil of a MRI device commonly utilized for medical imaging.

The materials in accordance with these embodiments exhibit EPIR effect in the electrical properties as shown in . This illustrates the switching behavior of the thin film of the composition SrLaRuFeO prepared on a silicon substrate with Pt as the bottom electrode. With the application voltage pulses of amplitude 10 V and 600 nanoseconds ns in duration the resistance of the film is increased or decreased depending on the pulse polarity. illustrates the ability of the material to repeatedly change resistance by the application of a single electrical pulse of alternating polarity. The magnitude of the change can be controlled by the pulse width and voltage. Such a thin film provides a means to store information in microelectronic devices in a simple two terminal configuration. The memory is non volatile multivalued and overwritable.

Composition and film thickness can also be adjusted to obtain different switching behavior. For example with decreasing Fe and La content i.e. decreasing x in the SrLaRuFeOseries the resistance decreases. Conversely by increasing Ti content i.e. increasing x in SrRuTiO or by increasing Zr in Sr RuZrO the resistance increases. These adjustments will allow the memory cell resistance which depends on the cell size and film thickness e.g. to fall in a range that is suitable for microelectronic device applications.

Compared to the manganate materials taught by the prior art ruthenates generally have a lower deposition temperature allowing highly crystalline thin films to form. The lower crystallization temperature makes the disclosed materials better candidates for integration with existing silicon based electronics technology.

Magnetically glassy Fe doped ruthenates of perovskite and layered perovskite can be derived from a parent compound that is either magnetic or nonmagnetic. In this example the materials were obtained by alloying FeOoctahedra into parent ruthenate compounds that are metallic. These parent compounds are either ferromagnetic SrRuO or paramagnetic CaRuOand SrRuO and their structures are either perovskite type SrRuOand CaRuO or layered perovskite type SrRuO . Since octahedral Fe ions in perovskite type structures are known to couple antiferromagnetically magnetic frustration easily arises in a randomly Fe alloyed BOnetwork resulting in a spin glass. The resulting large negative MR that is observed appears to be associated with the Fe impurities which operate as atomic scale spin valves allowing electrical current to pass through when the spatially adjacent electronic states are spin aligned.

Using a modified sol gel method the materials were synthesized to first obtain mixed ruthenate powders of high re activity. Typical powders after calcination had a Brunauer Emmett Teller B.E.T. surface area of 16 m g indicating a particle size of about 30 nm. Sintering was conducted in air at a temperature ranging from 1200 to 1450 C. using SrRuOpowder packs to suppress Ru volatilization. The XRD patterns of three sintered compounds are shown in . Thermogravimetry measurements found no weight change up to 800 C. indicating the stability of Ru and Fe valence states since any mixed valence would have caused oxygen exchange starting at 400 600 C. when oxygen diffusion becomes viable. Near x ray absorption edge fine structures also verified the above valence states data not shown .

Magnetic characterization was performed using a magnetometer Quantum Design PPMS under ac and dc magnetization conditions. Upon Fe doping magnetic frustration eventually manifests itself in the spin glass state which is outlined in the phase diagram in for the SrLaRuFeOseries. In this diagram the Tof the paramagnetic to ferromagnetic transition decreases with x until the ferromagnetic phase disappears at x

To determine whether the MR effect is intrinsic or not the above data were compared with those of thin films that were prepared on 001 SrTiOsubstrates using pulse laser deposition method of Choi et al. 79 1447 2001 . These films were strongly 001 oriented are 100 nm thick and have a roughness of 0.3 nm over a 2 m 2 m area. The MR of the x 0.3 sample at 10 K is shown in and it shows remarkable agreement with the data of the bulk polycrystal. Since these films have very few if any random grain boundaries the MR observed is a confirmed intrinsic property of the grains.

As an example of ruthenate thin films that exhibit EPIR effect at room temperature a ceramic target of x 0.3 composition was prepared using the sol gel process. The target has a diameter of 1 inch. Using pulse laser deposition at 600 C. thin films of the same composition was deposited on a silicon substrate which contains a surface platinum coating providing a conducting bottom electrode for the thin film. This thin film was tested using a probe station which provides a top electrode made of a tungsten tip. Electrical pulses of various amplitude and duration were supplied by a pulse generator Agilent 33250A type and the electrical resistance of the films was measured after the isolation of the pulse generator passage using a multimeter with a programmed relay subsequent to electrical pulse stimulation. With the application voltage pulses of amplitude 10 V and 600 nanoseconds ns in duration the resistance of the film is increased or decreased depending on the pulse polarity as shown in . illustrates the ability of the material to repeatedly change resistance by the application of a single electrical pulse of alternating polarity. The magnitude of the change can be controlled by the pulse width and voltage.

When Example 1 was essentially repeated except using the CaLaRuFeOseries a large MR at x 0.3 was also observed as shown in . Although CaRuOis not ferromagnetic a small amount of doping was found to induce ferromagnetism e.g. in CaLaRuFeO. Indeed a spin glass region exists for 0.2

Large MR was also observed in the layered perovskite SrRuOwhen doped with 20 LaFeO. As shown in at 10 K and 9 T a MR of 18 was found. This value is comparable to the MR value of SrLaRuFeOin and much larger than that of CaLaRuFeO not a spin glass . The magnetization curve of this compound is shown in the inset of which again verifies the spin glass behavior.

In all of the spin glass ruthenates studied in this example the dc magnetization was also found to rise with the field applied up to 9 T with only very small hysteresis at the low field. Also the data of dc susceptibility at 0.01 and 1 T were almost identical. Comparing these observations with the nearly linear MR shown in it was concluded that the MR is proportional to the field induced magnetization. Moreover even without permanent magnetization the dc magnetization obtained at 9 T was quite large. For example at 10 K the dc magnetization of SrLaRuFeOreaches 3000 emu mol which is about 40 the saturation magnetization of SrRuO. Therefore it was assumed that magnetic scattering of carriers due to spin misalignment can be substantially suppressed even in a spin glass once a large field is applied which is consistent with the large MR observed.

This MR effect is consistent with some mechanism of atomic level spin valves. From the literature on first principles calculations of energy levels of various ruthenium and iron containing perovskites Kobayashi et al. 1998 Mazin et al. . B56 2556 1997 Mazin et al. . B61 5223 2000 Hamada et al. in eds. Fujimori et al. Springer Berlin 1995 p. 95 the energy levels of Ru and Fe available for hopping electrons can be estimated and found close to each other which allow electron hopping in the BOnetwork. The effect of a magnetic field is to facilitate spin alignment hence the MR effect. One would expect that the spin flip scattering increases with the concentration of the Ru Fe Ru spin valves and that at lower temperatures alignment is easier so the MR is larger. In addition in a spin glass the field effect on resistivity is gradual and linear lacking the cusp like feature characteristics of the extrinsic MR.

Polycrystalline samples of SrRuOand mixed ruthenates were prepared by conventional ceramic process and two sol gel processes. These methods are described below using SrRuOas an example. Phase homogeneity was verified by means of powder x ray diffraction XRD and magnetic measurements

In the ceramic process a stoichiometric mixture of SrCO 99.99 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. and RuO 99.95 Alfa Aesar was prepared and calcined in a platinum crucible at 900 C. for 12 hours. After that powders were reground pelletized packed in sacrificial powder of SrRuO and heated at 900 1300 C. for 12 96 hours with intermediate regrinding and examining by XRD measurements every 12 hours to follow the progress of reaction. The XRD measurements were conducted using CuK radiation and the XRD patterns of the SrRuOsamples prepared by the ceramic route are shown in .

After initial calcination at 900 C. a majority perovskite phase had already formed but a small amount of unreacted RuOand SrO still remained. Subsequent annealing at higher temperatures progressively dissolved these unreacted phases. However intermediate phases such as SrRuO also formed but they disappeared after 60 hours. The reaction sequence that was used and the resulting slow kinetics are consistent with the reported findings of other ruthenate researchers Battle et al. 1989 Kim et al. 1995 He et al. 2001 . Notably as reported by He et al. 2001 KCl flux was even resorted to as a reaction aid. 

The tendency to form unintended intermediate ruthenate phases is due to the inhomogeneous distribution of Ru and Sr as well as the volatility of Ru at higher temperatures. As a result other perovskite related phases with different A B cation ratios become at least locally favored.

The solution polymerization method that was used is conceptually similar to the Pechini process U.S. Pat. No. 3 330 697 herein incorporated by reference . Two variations of the method were used.

In Process A a solution of Sr NO was prepared by dissolving a stoichiometric amount of SrCO 99.99 Alfa Aesar in IN nitric acid followed by the addition of an excess amount 3 time in weight of poly ethylene glycol PEG M 2000 g mol . A second solution of Ru III acetylacetonate Ru acac 99 Strem Chemicals Inc. Newburyport Mass. and PEG in absolute ethanol was also prepared. The two solutions were then mixed together and heated on a hot plate at T

A disadvantage of Process A was the use of Ru acac as the Ru source. Ru acac is insoluble in water necessitating the use of an organic solvent which may be incompatible with other ion precursors. This problem was circumvented in Process B that follows wherein RuOpowders were used.

In the second sol gel process Process B a powdered RuOwas used instead of Ru III acetylacetonate solution and the amount of PEG polymer was decreased. After solvent evaporation the mixture was combusted as described above to obtain the precursor powders.

In contrast to formulation by the standard ceramic process the solution polymerization methods Process A and Process B each provided a uniform distribution of source cations that were chelated in the subsequently polymerized precursor which greatly improved the outcome. shows the two XRD patterns of SrRuOsamples prepared by the Process A . After initial calcination at 850 C. only traces of RuOwere detected and they completely disappeared after a second annealing at 1350 C. Note also that no intermediate phases were detected in either XRD patterns.

Selected XRD patterns of SrRuOsamples prepared by Process B are also shown in . Based upon a comparison of the production patterns of Process A and Process B it is clear that both yielded similar results for SrRuO.

As an example of mixed ruthenates SrLaRuFeOwas prepared by the ceramic route and synthesized by Process B . In the ceramic process the additional starting powders used were LaO 99.99 Alfa Aesar and FeO 99.99 Alfa Aesar . In the sol gel processes the La and Fe sources were their nitrate solutions. Other procedures were used as described above. Their respective XRD patterns are compared in . The sintered mixed ruthenate samples were additionally characterized by measuring AC DC magnetization as a function of temperature. These measurements were performed on a magnetometer Quantum Design PPMS Model 6000 San Diego Calif. in the temperature range of 5 300K.

As was the case of the pure compound SrRuO the mixed ruthenate compound SrLaRuFeO prepared by the ceramic route suffered from slow reaction kinetics. For example after 48 hours at 1350 C. intermediate compounds still remained. Indeed even the majority perovskite phase appeared to have non uniform composition. Evidence of the latter came from the intensity of 100 reflection in simple cubic notation which should be very weak in a random solid solution of the SrLaRuFeOcomposition but prominent in SrRuO see . By comparison Process B yielded a single phase material after two step calcination as shown in .

The solid solution SrLaRuFeOis a spin glass that shows a very large magnetoresistance at low temperatures Mamchik et al. 82 613 615 2003 . It is known that a spin glass has a very small magnetization if it is compositionally homogeneous. Conversely any magnetic impurity phases or compositional inhomogeneities should manifest themselves in magnetic measurements even though they may be otherwise structurally similar to the majority phase or too small or too few to be detected by XRD. Therefore this material is an excellent model for comparing different processing methods.

In the DC magnetization curves of the SrLaRuFeOsample prepared by the ceramic method and by the solution polymerization Process B respectively are compared. There is clearly a much larger magnetization shown in the sample prepared by the ceramic process. The extraneous magnetization appears below 160K which suggests that it could come from the ferromagnetic contribution of SrRuO T 160K . The presence of SrRuOis confirmed by the weak field AC susceptibility data see the inset of showing a ferromagnetic peak at 160K. Notably the SrRuOphase was not detected in the XRD measurement according to judging from the absence of 100 reflection after 48 hours at 1350 C. Therefore it probably only exists as nano sized clusters whose XRD reflections are obscured by line broadening and virtually undetectable by conventional XRD techniques.

In sum compared to solid state reactions using mixed starting oxides the solution polymerization method significantly decreases the processing time and improves the compositional uniformity of the ruthenate compounds as verified by XRD and magnetic measurements. The method especially offers a clear advantage in processing doped ruthenate compounds allowing magnetic properties of new ruthenates to be sensitively studied without the complication of impurity phases or inhomogeneous clusters.

The disclosures of each patent patent application and publication cited or described in this document are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

While the foregoing specification has been described with regard to certain preferred embodiments and many details have been set forth for the purpose of illustration it will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention that the invention may be subject to various modifications and additional embodiments and that certain of the details described herein can be varied considerably without departing from the basic principles of the invention. Such modifications and additional embodiments are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

