---

title: Device activation and access
abstract: Remote access management for a mobile device includes an activation process where a digitally signed activation record is created by a remote activation service and provided to the mobile device. The activation record is used to determine an activation state for the mobile device. Upon activation, a security process running on the mobile device enforces a security policy regarding remote access to the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08666366&OS=08666366&RS=08666366
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08666366
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070622
---
The subject matter of this patent application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 650 859 for Mobile Device Activation filed Jan. 7 2007 which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Conventional mobile devices are often dedicated to performing a specific application. For example a mobile phone provides telephony services a personal digital assistant PDA provides a way to organize addresses contacts and notes a media player plays content email devices provide email communication etc. Modern mobile devices can include two or more of these applications. Due to the size limitation of a typical mobile device such mobile devices may need to rely on a network or other remote services to support these multiple applications. For example map services may be used to provide maps to a mobile device which can be used with one or more applications running on the mobile device. Since modern mobile devices often contain sensitive data e.g. financial data personal information there is an increased concern that such data will be stolen or otherwise compromised while accessing remote services.

Remote access management for a mobile device includes an activation process where a digitally signed activation record is created by a remote application service and provided to the mobile device. The activation record is used to determine an activation state for the mobile device. Upon activation a security process running on the mobile device can enforce a security policy regarding remote access to the mobile device.

In some implementations a method includes detecting a mobile device generating an activation record specific to the mobile device the activation record including information for determining an activation state for the mobile device digitally signing the activation record and sending the digitally signed activation record to the mobile device.

In some implementations a method includes detecting an activation record on a mobile device responsive to the detection authenticating the activation record responsive to a successful authentication determining an activation state based on the activation record and activating the mobile device based on the activation state.

In some implementations a method includes establishing a serial communications channel with an access device receiving on the serial communications channel an access request from the access device responsive to the access request establishing a secure communications session with the access device using the serial communications channel and receiving on the serial communications channel multiplexed information from the access device.

Other implementations are disclosed including implementations directed to methods systems and computer readable mediums.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication 2002 0015024A1 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as a 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 904 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Multiplexed Data Stream Protocol which provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device has invoked a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device as described in reference to . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device then downloads the software updates to the mobile device where it can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enable functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keypad or keyboard.

In some embodiments the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel as described in reference to .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other security instructions to facilitate security processes and functions as described in reference to . As described below an activation record and IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The OS kernel manages the resources of the mobile device and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

In some implementations the kernel can be stored in non volatile memory of the mobile device . When the mobile device is turned on a boot loader starts executing the kernel in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device including a security process for remote access management as described in reference to .

The library system provides various services applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services etc.

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the applications represented by the display objects shown in e.g. email media player Web browser phone .

In the example shown the access device includes device drivers a mobile services daemon a mobile services API and one or more mobile service applications . The device drivers are responsible for implementing the transport layer protocol such as TCP IP over USB. The mobile services daemon listens e.g. continuously to the communications channel for activity and manages the transmission of commands and data over the communication channel . The mobile services API provides a set of functions procedures variables and data structures for supporting requests for services made by the mobile services application . The mobile services application can be a client program running on the access device which provides one or more user interfaces for allowing a user to interact with a remote service e.g. activation service over a network e.g. the Internet wireless network peer to peer network optical network Ethernet intranet . The application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a mobile services application is the iTunes client which is publicly available from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . An example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPod product developed by Apple Inc.

In an example operational mode a user connects the mobile device to the mobile access device using for example a USB cable. In other implementations the mobile device and access device include wireless transceivers for establishing a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . The drivers and kernel detect the connection and alert the security process and mobile services daemon of the connections status. Once the connection is established certain non sensitive information can be passed from the mobile device to the access device e.g. name disk size activation state to assist in establishing a secure communication session.

In some implementations the security process establishes a secure communication session e.g. encrypted SSL session with the access device by implementing a secure network protocol. For example if using SSL protocol the mobile device and access device will negotiate a cipher suite to be used during data transfer establish and share a session key and authenticate the access device to the mobile device . In some implementations if the mobile device is password protected the security process will not establish a session and optionally alert the user of the reason for failure.

Once a secure session is successfully established the mobile device and the access device can exchange sensitive information e.g. passwords personal information and remote access to the mobile device can be granted to one or more services e.g. navigation service messaging service media service syncing service activation service . In some implementations the mobile services daemon multiplexes commands and data for transmission over the communication channel . This multiplexing allows several remote services to have access to the mobile device in a single session without the need to start a new session or handshaking for each service requesting access to the mobile device .

When the user purchases the mobile device the mobile device will typically include a Subscriber Identity Module SIM Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC Removable User Identity Module RUIM or similar removable device that allows users to change mobile devices by simply removing the module or card from one mobile device and inserting it into another mobile device. SIM cards typically store network specific information used to authenticate and identify subscribers on a network. This information can include an International Circuit Card ID ICCID International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI Authentication Key Ki Local Area Identity LAI . The SIM card also stores other carrier specific data such as an Short Message Service Centre SMSC number Service Provider Name SPN Service Dialing Numbers SDN and Value Added Service VAS applications. ICCIDs are stored in the SIM cards and are also engraved or printed on the SIM card body during a process called personalization. SIM cards are identified on their individual operator networks by holding a unique IMSI. Mobile operators connect mobile phone calls and communicate with their market SIM cards using their IMSI.

In addition to the identifiers described above the mobile device itself will often have a unique serial number or ID such as a International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI . The IMEI is a 15 digit number that typically can be found at the back of the mobile device battery or by pressing 06 .

In some implementations the activation service maintains a relational database or registry e.g. MySQL of user information ICCIDs IMEI and any other information needed to authenticate a user and to provide activation services. Using this database or registry the activation service knows for example that a particular mobile device with a particular IMEI with a particular SIM card was purchased by a particular user on a particular date and that a particular carrier is providing one or more services to the user and the activation date of those services. This information can be received through an authenticated communication channel that is different than the communication channel used for activating the mobile device or receiving remote services.

In some implementations the foregoing information known by the activation service can be compared with information requested from the user through the activation process for purposes of authenticating the user to ensure that the user requesting the activation service is the true owner of the phone and or an authorized subscriber of phone services.

If creating an account is not successful then a failure message can be sent to the mobile device for display to the user and or other action taken and the activation process can be terminated and or other action taken e.g. providing the user with activation instructions or automatically restarting the process .

If the creation of an account is successful then the activation service can generate an activation record specific to the mobile device . In some implementations the activation record can include an ICCID and IMEI. In some implementations the activation record is digitally signed using known digital signature technology e.g. SHA 1 RSA DSA ECDSA Rabin signature . Once signed the activation record can be transmitted to the mobile device where the activation record can be used by the mobile device to complete an activation process and determine an activation state as described in reference to .

If the authentication is not successful a failure message can be displayed on the mobile device and or other action taken and the activation process can be terminated and or other action taken. For example if the mobile device includes a telephony application and a media player application a failed authentication may place the mobile device in active state where only the media player application can be operated and the telephony application is locked down.

If the authentication is successful an activation state is determined by comparing the information in the activation record e.g. ICCID IMEI with information contained in the mobile device . For example the ICCID and IMEI in the activation record can be compared with the ICCID of the SIM card installed on the mobile device and the IMEI stored in memory on the mobile device. Based on results of the comparison one of a number of possible activation states for the mobile device can be determined and the device can be placed in that activation state .

In some implementations a mobile device can have the following exemplary activation states Unactivated Activated MissingSIM MismatchedIMEI and MismatchedSIM. Other activations states are possible.

In an Unactivated state the mobile device has never been activated. In this case the mobile device can be entirely disabled except for making emergency calls in some implementations if the mobile device includes a telephony application. In some implementations the mobile device can be disabled by locking down the graphical user interface so that the user cannot invoke any applications or remote services. In an Activated state the mobile device is fully activated allowing the user total access to all the features of the mobile device including access to remote services.

In a MissingSIM state the mobile device is activated but the SIM card is not present in the mobile device . This could occur for example in a factory setting for testing mobile devices in a quality control process. In some implementations of this case the mobile device may be activated for predetermined time interval without a SIM card then deactivated when the testing is completed or the time interval expires. In some implementations the activation service can be located in the factory.

In a MismatchedIMEI state the mobile device is activated but the radio has been changed. In some implementations of this case the security process running on the mobile device can lockdown the telephony application but allow other applications to work e.g. allow the device to be used as a media player . Other desired actions can also be performed.

In the MismatchedSIM state the mobile device is activated but the user has placed a different SIM in the mobile device . In some implementations of this case the radio or modem in the mobile device can be disabled or other suitable action taken.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The features can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output.

After the mobile device is activated in some implementations the security process monitors e.g. continuously remote access requests and sets up and tears down secure sessions as needed. Thus in such an implementation all remote access requests are managed by a security process which can include one or more processes. If a user alters the mobile device e.g. changing a SIM card the security process will detect the change and initiate an action such as starting a new activation process .

The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language e.g. Objective C Java including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example elements of one or more implementations may be combined deleted modified or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

