---

title: Methods and systems for fiber optic gyroscopes vibration error suppression
abstract: Systems and methods for performing vibration error suppression in a fiber optic gyro sensor. An example system includes a light source, a sensing loop assembly, a photo detector, and a processing component. The light source generates a light signal that is then modulated by the sensing loop assembly and applied to a fiber optic coil in the assembly. The photo detector receives a modulated light signal that is an output of the sensing loop assembly (coil) and generates an analog signal. The processing component converts the generated analog signal into a modulated digital signal, determines an average of the modulated digital signal, determines an intensity modulation amplitude based on the determined average of the modulated digital signal, and re-scales the modulated digital phase signal based on the determined intensity modulation amplitude.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07715014&OS=07715014&RS=07715014
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 07715014
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070306
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under U.S. Government Contract No. F29601003 C 0124 Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL . The Government may have rights to portions of this invention.

In recent years fiber optic gyroscopes FOGS have become widely used in several technologies to sense the rotation and angular orientation of various objects such as aerospace vehicles. A FOG typically includes an optical fiber often several kilometers in length wound in a coil about an axis of rotation i.e. the rotation to be sensed . Light is injected in opposite directions through the coil and directed onto a photo detector. If the coil is rotated about the axis the effective optical path length for the light traveling in one direction in the coil is increased while the path length is decreased for the light traveling in the opposite direction See .

The difference in path length introduces a phase shift known as the Sagnac Effect between the light waves traveling in opposite directions. As a result an interference pattern is detected by the photo detector which indicates that the FOG is experiencing rotation. The output signal from the photo detector typically follows a cosine function. That is the output signal depends on the cosine of the phase difference between the two waves. Therefore because the cosine function is even the rate of change near zero is very small resulting in poor sensitivity for low rotation rates. To improve sensitivity the waves are often modulated by a particular voltage to generate a phase difference deviating from zero. The actual phase generated by the modulation voltage is referenced to a voltage V that changes the light phase by 180 or radians . The phase modulation reference voltage V depends on the wavelength and environmental factors such as temperature humidity and pressure.

The amplitude of the Sagnac phase shift caused by a rotation rate determines the FOG scale factor which numerically relates the detected phase difference to the actual rotation being experienced by the FOG. As the fiber sensing coil length and diameter are increased the scale factor also increases and as a result the FOG is more sensitive to rotation. The FOG scale factor also depends on the wavelength of the light propagating in the fiber sensing coil.

In the Interferometric Fiber Optic Gyroscope IFOG vibration can cause intensity fluctuation through components in the optical signal path. Vibration also causes phase fluctuation through physical rotation of the IFOG sensing coil. Rectified bias error is generated when the intensity and phase modulations are synchronous. Both Navy Submarine Launched Ballistic Missile SLBM and Air Force Intercontinental Ballistic Missile ICBM guidance programs require IFOG to exhibit minimal rectified bias error under severe vibration environmental situations such as during booster phase and stages separation see .

Therefore there exists a need for a technique to suppress vibration induced intensity modulation and thus reduce the vibration induced bias error.

The present invention provides systems and methods for performing vibration error suppression in a fiber optic gyro sensor. An example system includes a light source a sensing loop assembly a photo detector and a processing component. The light source generates a light signal that is applied to a fiber optic coil in the assembly. Light intensity in the optical path of an FOG is modulated in the presence of vibration source. The photo detector receives a modulated light signal containing both modulated intensity and phase signals that is an output of the sensing loop assembly coil and generates an analog signal. The processing component converts the generated analog signal into a modulated digital signal which determines an intensity modulation amplitude based on the determined average of the modulated digital signal. The modulated intensity amplitude is then used to rescale the modulated phase signal to eliminate vibration induced rotation rate error.

In one aspect of the present invention the processor component generates an analog modulation signal based on the resealed modulated digital signal and controls the sensing loop assembly based on the generated analog modulation signal.

The light source is any light source typically used in fiber optic gyroscopes such as a Fiber Light Source FLS assembly. In one embodiment the light source includes a 980 nm semiconductor pump laser containing an Erbium doped fiber EDF capable of generating light with a wavelength of approximately 1532 nm with an approximate bandwidth of 35 nm.

In the depicted embodiment the optical coupler is a 50 50 coupler or splitter as is commonly understood in the art. The coupler is coupled via the fiber optic lines to the light source the photo detector and to the sensing loop assembly . The coupler receives light from the light source thereof and splits the light amongst at least two other terminals i.e. outputs . Light that is sent from the light source through the coupler will be split into two parts with one part being sent to the sensing loop assembly and the other part not being used. Light that is traveling in the opposite direction i.e. back from the sensing loop assembly is split such that one part is sent back to the photo detector . The photo detector is connected between the coupler and the processing subsystem and may include a photodiode.

The sensing loop assembly includes an integrated optics chip IOC and a fiber sensing coil . The IOC is an electro optic crystal phase modulator as is commonly understood. The IOC includes a Y splitter connected to the coupler through the fiber optic line and a series of electrodes . The Y splitter splits the light from the fiber optic line into fiber optic segments within the fiber coil and the electrodes are used to modulate the split light. Although the present invention may be practiced with various types of phase modulators in one embodiment the IOC uses square wave bias modulation and is fabricated using LiNbO. The fiber sensing coil is a winding of fiber optical cable having a length of for example between 1 and 6 km.

The processing subsystem includes electronic components including various circuitry and integrated circuits such as a field programmable gate array FPGA an Application Specific Integration Circuit ASIC and or instructions stored on a computer readable medium to be carried out by a computing system and perform the methods and processes described below. The processing subsystem includes an analog to digital converter ADC a microprocessor and a digital to analog converter DAC . The ADC converts the analog signal received from the photo detector into digital data representative thereof and supplies the digital data to the microprocessor . The DAC is sequentially connected to an output of the microprocessor . The DAC as is generally known converts digital data supplied from the microprocessor into analog signals representative thereof. An output of the DAC is connected to the IOC within the sensing loop assembly . The microprocessor is coupled between the ADC and the DAC .

In one embodiment as shown in the ADC includes an amplifier and an ADC. The microprocessor includes a digital vibration suppression component that is in data communication with the ADC. The digital vibration suppression component determines intensity fluctuation due to vibration. The intensity fluctuation due to vibration is an AC intensity signal that is obtained from the summation of two adjacent voltage levels. Then the digital vibration suppression component reduces vibration induced bias error based on the determined vibration intensity fluctuation i.e. intensity modulation . The digital vibration suppression component outputs its results to rate and demodulators. The rest on the processing performed in the microprocessor is performed in accordance with known digital signal processing techniques.

As shown in an example process is performed by the digital vibration suppression component . First at block the amplitude of intensity modulation is determined using the average of the demodulation signal.

Intensity modulation in Equation 1 is induced in the presence of a vibration source. Phase modulation comes from the actual gyro rotation or vibration. In one embodiment in a square phase modulation is applied to IOC to generate a bias to detect change of rotation rate. Frequency of the square wave depends on the length of fiber coil . Loop transit time is defined as the time required for light to travel from on end of fiber coil to the other.

Digital Processing inside the digital vibration suppression component consists of sum and difference of two signals in adjacent loop transit time

Equation 2 3 can be referred to A B in A B in in . Vand Vcan be exactly measured and processed to solve for intensity modulation amplitude. In digital processing the intensity modulation amplitude can be solved as shown in Equation 4 .

The intensity modulation amplitude is used to rescale phase modulation signal from the demodulation signal to obtain gyro rotation rate free of vibration induced error as shown in Equation 7 .

It is easy to for those skillful in the art to realize the same vibration error suppression technique is also applicable to other gyro signals to rescale for correction of vibration induced error. These signals include but not limited to phase modulation reference voltage relative intensity noise monitor signal eigen frequency servo monitor signal and carrier suppression modulation signal.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely to the claims that follow.

