---

title: Page description language package file preview
abstract: Various embodiments described herein provide systems, methods, and software to preview files packaged, or otherwise embedded, within page description language documents. Such previews may be viewed without opening a larger application typically used to view such files. Some embodiments include presenting, in a page description language document reader application, a representation of a file packaged within a page description language document and receiving a selection of the packaged file to preview the file within the page description language document reader application. Some embodiments further include selecting a utility to open the packaged file as a function of a file type of the packaged file and calling the selected utility to open the packaged file with a reference to a location where packaged file is located.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09158493&OS=09158493&RS=09158493
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09158493
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070928
---
Page description language documents such as Portable Document Format documents are heavily used for many purposes. The number of purposes continues to grow as page description language specifications are expanded to provide more and more options for document creation and presentation. One of these options is the ability to package files within a page description language document.

Various embodiments described herein provide systems methods and software to preview files packaged or otherwise embedded within page description language documents. Such previews may be viewed without opening a larger application typically used to view such files. For example rather than launching an entire word processing application which may take a considerable amount of time a preview may be presented quickly through use of API s utilities plug ins software embedded within page description language reader applications and the like. Files packaged within page description language documents as a and the like. Files packaged within page description language documents as a result may be viewed more quickly and through a common interface while decreases the amount of processing resources consumed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In some embodiments when a file in the file detail pane is selected the page description language reader application provides one or more options for viewing content of the file which includes a preview option to allow viewing of a selected file without opening an application normally used to view and edit files of the selected file type. In some embodiments the preview option may present a selected file within a pane of the user interface within a pane of a popup window or within a computer program such as a utility capable of presenting all or a portion of a selected file.

Although the files are displayed in the file detail pane some embodiments may include displaying a link to view a packaged file within text of the page description language document. For example the text of the page description language document displayed in the document pane may include one or more hyperlinks to one or more of the packaged files . In some embodiments the packaged files may be presented in a file detail pane located in a different portion of the user interface in a different manner or exclusively within the body of a page description language document.

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the computer . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium instructions may include instructions of an operating system such as an operating system of from the Microsoft Windows family of operating systems a MAC OS operating system Linux or other operating system. Some such operating systems may include utilities which may be called to open files. Some such utilities may allow a file to be previewed without requiring an application normally used to open files of a certain type to be started. Some such utilities may also allow a user to edit a previewed file although editing may be limited to a certain amount of editing functionality. Examples of such utilities may include Notepad and WordPad which are typically included in MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating systems. Another example utility included within MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating systems is the WINDOWS Graphics Device Interface Plus or GDI which enables applications to use graphics and formatted text on video display devices. The computer readable medium instructions may also include one or more computing applications . The computer applications may include applications such as word processing applications which may include MICROSOFT Word spreadsheet applications audio visual presentation applications that may present one or more of audio images and video and other applications that may consume files for creation presentation editing and other actions. Some such applications may provide a utility that may be called by other applications to cause a view of a file created with a respective application to be displayed. Such utilities of applications and operating systems are typically made through application programming interface or API calls.

In some embodiments the computer readable instructions also include a page description language reader program . The page description language reader program such as the ADOBE ACROBAT program consumes page description language documents parses such documents and causes them to be displayed. A page description language document may be used to package several files such as documents spreadsheets images video sound clips other page description language documents and the like. The page description language reader program may cause a page description language document including packaged files to be displayed in a manner as illustrated and described with regard to . In some embodiments the page description language reader program may receive a selection of a file packaged within a page description language document to preview. The page description language reader program then calls a utility capable of presenting a preview of the selected file. As discussed above the utility may be a utility of an application or the operating system . The utility in some further embodiments may be a utility included within the page description language reader program or a plug in type of software which may or may not be considered an application.

In some such embodiments the packaged file preview is presented within a pane of the user interface of the page description language reader program in a pop up window or in another location. A packaged file preview depending on the file type and the utility used to present the preview may only a preview of a portion of data within the packaged file. In some embodiments the portion of data may be a thumbnail image of a portion of the packaged file such as if a file size of the packaged file is greater than a certain file size threshold.

The memory address may alternatively be a location in memory where a copy of the package file is placed for preview. Thus the method may also include extracting the packaged file selected for preview from the page description language document and storing the extracted packaged file to a memory device. However the packaged file may also be extracted and stored to a hard disk and the address may be a hard disk address or other reference to a location on a hard disk such as a directory folder and file name.

In some embodiments the packaged file may be compressed within the page description language document. In such embodiments extracting the packaged file from the page description language document includes decompressing the packaged file. The decompression in some embodiments may be performed using compression decompression functionality included in a page description language reader application. In other embodiments the page description language reader application may utilize a decompression utility of an operating system or stand alone compression application to perform the decompression through an API call.

In some embodiments selecting a utility to open the packaged file includes selecting a utility included in the page description language reader application a utility of an operating system or a utility of an application or plug in. Such utilities are commonly called through an API of the respective utility. However in some embodiments the page description language reader application may call one or more web services available over a network such as the Internet to display a preview. In some such embodiments a web service may be available to convert a selected package file from a first format to a second format that may be displayed within a user interface of the page description language reader application. Other web services may be called in such embodiments depending on the type of a packaged file selected for preview.

In some embodiments the method when selecting the utility to open the packaged file as a function of a file type of the packaged file includes determining if a computer application including a utility to preview files of the type of the packaged file is installed on a computing device on which the method is performed. If the computer application is installed the method includes selecting the utility of the computer application. However if the utility is not installed an error may be displayed indicating there is not an application or utility available to display the packaged file. In some embodiments rather than displaying an error a web service as described above may be called to generate a preview of the packaged file. In other embodiments along with a displayed error options may be presented such as search for a web service to generate a preview or an option to use or select another application to display the packaged file such as a text editor.

It is emphasized that the Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment to streamline the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the inventive subject matter require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

