---

title: Storage and visualization of points of interest in a navigation system
abstract: A navigation system accepts driver input that extends the navigation capabilities of the navigation system, while permitting the driver to navigate using a digital map that indicates vehicle position. The driver input may identify a new point of interest, an icon for the new point of interest, and location information for the new point of interest. The navigation system supplements a pre-configured navigation database with the driver input. During a subsequent trip, when the vehicle approaches the new point of interest, the navigation system alerts the driver of the new point of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688367&OS=08688367&RS=08688367
owner: Harman Becker Automotive Systems GmbH
number: 08688367
owner_city: Karlsbad
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20070321
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from European Patent Application No. 06 006 441.7 filed Mar. 28 2006 which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to route guidance by a navigation system and a navigation system for a vehicle or a hand held device. In particular this disclosure relates to the storage and presentation of points of interest along the route.

Navigation systems have become standard equipment in many vehicles. Such systems typically receive GPS Global Positioning System satellite radio signals which are received by a GPS antenna of the vehicle. The signals are provided to a navigation computer in the vehicle. The navigation computer processes the received GPS data and may also process supplemental data to determine the current position of the vehicle. The supplemental data may include data obtained from motion sensors wheel sensors and gyroscopes and other data.

Navigation systems typically use electronic maps to represent cartographic features such as streets buildings and geographical features. The electronic maps are usually stored on a compact disc or a digital video disc. Once the navigation system performs map matching the current position of the user is indicated on the displayed digital map. The user is guided to a predetermined destination by audio and or video output.

Some navigation systems display detailed digital maps and or three dimensional detailed views indicating routes to predetermined destinations. Such systems may indicate the types of driving maneuvers to be taken at various junctions and may also indicate different points of interest POIs . Such points of interest may include service stations museums hotels restaurants landmarks and the like.

To provide the required navigation functions navigation systems use one or more detailed map databases. The databases may include bitmap images for lanes signpost information landmarks and the like. The databases may also include data for representing the physical features of a geographic region and POIs.

However existing navigation systems only provide the driver with standardized non individualized information or with a preset customized route. The systems cannot be manipulated by the user to add new POIs once the trip has begun. The systems cannot be adapted to the individual needs of the user in route. Therefore a need exists for a navigation system that can be individually customized by the user in route.

A navigation system permits a driver to navigate using a digital map which indicates the position of the vehicle relative to the map. The navigation system also displays various POIs using icons graphic indicia and or alphanumeric indicators. An audio indicator may also be issued to alert the driver regarding an approaching point of interest. The navigation system also allows the driver to enter a new point of interest while in route. The coordinates of the new point of interest and an icon selected by the driver corresponding to the new point of interest are saved in a database. During a subsequent trip when the driver approaches the previously saved point of interest the navigation system may alert the driver of the approaching point of interest.

The navigation system may save the icon representing the new point of interest in the database along with the corresponding location of the user while in route. However the user is not restricted to only saving new points of interest corresponding to the user s present position. The user may also select a new point of interest and save it along with an arbitrary location corresponding to a selected position on the digital map. The arbitrary location and corresponding new point of interest may relate to a point of interest that the user recalls at a later time and wishes to save in the database.

Further the navigation system may save multiple POIs in the database and similar POIs may be organized into a class of points of interest. The navigation system may also save multiple classes of points of interest while the user is navigating.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

The navigation system may also be self contained in a hand held portable device. shows such a hand held portable GPS device . In other words the navigation systems described below are not limited in application to vehicles but may have many different implementations.

The navigation system may also include an input subsystem with input devices and a user interface . The user may operate the input subsystem through the user interface . The input subsystem may include input devices through which the user interacts with the navigation system . Additionally multiple databases or a database system may be coupled to the location subsystem . The database system may include a main database or navigation database a symbol database and a dynamic point of interest and class database POI database . The navigation database may provide the user with the basic map or route to be displayed. The location subsystem may be coupled to the input subsystem and to an output subsystem . The output subsystem may include a display device and an audio output device . The navigation system may also include a speech synthesizer and a voice recognition system . The speech synthesizer and the voice recognition system may be logic implemented in the input subsystem the output subsystem or elsewhere in the navigation system . Alternatively the speech synthesizer and a voice recognition system may be separate from the components described.

The location subsystem may include a GPS antenna and a GPS receiver . The GPS receiver may determine an actual position at which the navigation system or vehicle is currently located. To facilitate user control the location subsystem may also receive instructions from the voice recognition system . The voice recognition system may detect and recognize spoken language including audible commands and input parameters. The voice recognition system may be configured to recognize a large library of words and phrases. The voice recognition system may be a commercially available voice recognition system coupled to the navigation system or may be an embedded application. The voice recognition system may be activated by a push to talk lever or other suitable input devices . Alternatively the voice recognition system may be located in or be part of the input subsystem . The voice recognition system may be omitted and the input devices may provide all necessary commands to the navigation system . The speech synthesizer may also be coupled to or contained within the location subsystem . The speech synthesizer may produce synthesized speech that may provide navigation information to the user. The navigation information may include waypoint distance waypoint identification identification of POIs and warnings or messages.

The navigation database the symbol database and the POI database may be coupled to each other within the database system and may be further coupled to the location subsystem . The database system may receive commands and signals from the location subsystem . The navigation database the symbol database and the POI database may cooperate to output map and coordinate information and POI information to the display device . The POI database may contain various POIs and or various classes of points of interest. POI database may be dynamically updated and new entries may be saved or deleted at any time. A POI may be a subset within a class of points of interest or may be independent. The navigation database may be a preexisting or pre prepared database that may include part or all of the data used for route guidance. The actual or physical location of various POIs may be stored in the POI database or the symbol database by storing an indicia e.g. a symbol or icon associated with the points of interest. The coordinates of the actual position of the vehicle may also be stored in the POI database . The database system may be configured so that it can be updated after being purchased by a user or installed in the navigation system. Alternatively the database system may be a supplementary database that may be used with the various databases configured to perform route guidance. Both types of databases may physically reside in magnetic optical or other suitable storage media.

As described above the database system may be configured to store and retrieve icons or symbols for classes of POIs and individual POIs. The symbols may be located in the navigation database or in a separate symbol database . In either configuration the databases of the database system may be modified and updated by the user either before an excursion or trip during an excursion or trip or after an excursion or trip. Each icon may be a symbol representing a point of interest or its class. The icons may be textual or graphic information such as letters or alphanumeric data. Such icons or symbols may also be in the form of digital photographs thumbnail photos bitmaps vector graphics and the like. Vector graphic representations may be particularly suitable for calculating and displaying symbols including three dimensional symbols and may have favorable scaling and storage space characteristics in comparison to other representations.

New symbols may be added to the navigation database or the symbol database and previously stored or existing symbols may be deleted or modified. This may occur before during or after navigation. New symbols may be created by the user. Symbols that are assigned selected or designed by the user in accordance with his or her preferences enhance the look and feel of the output display. The enhanced output display improves the navigation experience. Alternatively the user may download new symbols e.g. via the Internet and store the new symbols in the symbol database .

The output subsystem may include various output devices such as the audio output device or speaker. The output subsystem may also include the display device such as an LCD display. Any suitable display device may be used. The display device and the audio output device may be arranged to indicate one or more points of interest. The points of interest may be stored in the POI database based on the present location of the vehicle. The display device may display various digital maps including the symbols representing points of interest.

Next the navigation system may determine the class associated with the new POI Act . The navigation system may request the user to identify the class to be associated with the new POI Act . The speech synthesizer may output instructions requesting that the user enter an associated class. After the user has selected the associated class the class may be saved in the POI database Act . If the user fails to select a class the navigation system may select or assign a class to the new POI. The assignment may be made using heuristic matching or pattern matching techniques.

The navigation system may display the point of interest when the vehicle is within range Act . The navigation system may also verbally announce the point of interest to the user via the audio output device Act . The navigation system may implicitly indicate the position of the point of interest by positioning the icon or symbol at the correct place in a digital map. The navigation system may also expressly indicate the point of interest by announcing or displaying the actual distance between the point of interest and the vehicle.

The navigation system may recognize that the new POI belongs to a particular class. The navigation system may match the new POI with an existing class Act . If no match is found Act the navigation system may prompt the user to select an appropriate class Act . The class may then be saved in the POI database Act .

Alternatively or additionally to identify this point of interest the driver may utter a pre determined phrase e.g. New Point of Interest Dangerous Intersection or other phrase. The voice recognition system may digitize this sample of speech. The processor may generate a link or store the digitized audio sample in a library. The navigation system may save the speech sample for later output as Attention Dangerous Intersection The word Attention may be generated or created by the navigation system rather than by the user. Furthermore the navigation system may store the user generated or user selected symbol representing the dangerous intersection in the symbol database . The coordinates of the dangerous intersection may be stored in the POI database . The point of interest and its coordinates may be associated with or linked to each other in the database. The symbol may also be an external symbol previously generated or prepared and or selected by the user. For example the symbol may be based on a digital photograph or a downloaded vector graphic file. This symbol may reside in any of the databases.

The location subsystem may determine the actual distance to the coordinate position of the point of interest corresponding to the dangerous intersection. The position of the vehicle may be continuously monitored during travel. When the vehicle is within a predetermined distance from the point of interest namely the dangerous intersection the navigation system makes the announcement. Alternatively the warning may be in explicit form such as Attention Dangerous Intersection 100 meters. The speech recognition system and speech synthesis system may also be configured such that a speech sample can be recorded directly from the driver for subsequent output. Readable text may be displayed to the user corresponding to the voice output message.

As a further example during navigation the driver may recognize a particular hotel of interest during navigation for example a Holiday House hotel. If the driver utters the phrase Store Holiday House the navigation system may store the actual position of the hotel actual position of the vehicle . The navigation system may also store the term Hotels as the class of the point of interest as selected by the user. The navigation system may store the new class Hotels in the POI database along with an associated link representing the coordinates of the actual position of the Holiday House hotel. For example the new class Hotels and the new point of interest the Holiday House are shown in .

The next time that the driver approaches the speed limit zone the navigation system may display the symbol for the class defined as Dangerous Locations and the point of interest defined as speed limit zone. The navigation system may also display identifying text along with an audio warning. Thus the driver may be warned in advance of the approaching speed limit zone.

As described above route guidance may be performed by providing audio and or visual information to the user. The navigation system may also display a digital map showing the present position of the vehicle. The navigation system may also indicate the route to be taken along with the icons or symbols for various points of interest and associated class. In particular the digital map may include symbols representing points of interest that may be individually customized by the user and stored while in route. Additionally the icon or symbol may change form blinking highlighted change of shape change of color and the like when the vehicle approaches or reaches the point of interest within a predetermined distance. Further the above described hardware and software may be incorporated in a hand held device with no operating or functional differences.

The POI database may be updated with an actual point of interest and or a class of points of interest along with the corresponding position. However a newly defined point of interest need not necessarily belong to any pre defined class. Examples of classes of points of interest may include Hotels Restaurants Service Stations Police Stations and other classes. Specific POIs may belong to a defined class such as the Hotels class or the Museums class.

The user may also define a new class of points of interest while in route. For example the user may define a class of POIs representing a particular type of establishment such as a hardware store. The user may select or design the type of symbol to represent the store at hand. Thus the navigation system may be customized in accordance with the user s preferences while the driver is in route. Further the navigation system may be operated by another user such as a passenger.

The navigation system may use any suitable coordinate system to identify and store the POIs. Any suitable software technique may be employed to associate the point of interest with its coordinates such as pointers links multi dimensional arrays tables and the like. Links from entries of predefined or user defined symbols may be associated with libraries corresponding to stored positional data.

The navigation system may also be configured to store an arbitrary coordinate position corresponding to the point of interest or class of points of interest. For example while in route the user may recall that he passed a dangerous intersection several miles back. The driver may not have had sufficient time to enter the data or even issue any commands at that time. Accordingly after the event the user may input the dangerous intersection as a point of interest. The user may then assign a symbol to represent the dangerous intersection and may place that symbol at an arbitrary location on the map. The arbitrary location of course corresponds to the position at which the driver recalls the dangerous intersection being located. Thus the driver and vehicle need not be physically located at a particular location to enter and save a particular point of interest. The user may enter or select a symbol corresponding to the point of interest using a cursor in a drag and drop manner. Such a drag and drop method may permit the user to position the symbol at the desired arbitrary position in the digital map. Accordingly the user is not restricted to customizing the navigation system based on a present or actual position. The user may also store the coordinates of an arbitrary position and associated point of interest at any time during navigation.

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded in a computer readable medium such as a CDROM disk flash memory RAM or ROM an electromagnetic signal or other machine readable medium as instructions for execution by a processor. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits including amplifiers adders delays and filters or one or more processors executing amplification adding delaying and filtering instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software.

The logic may be represented in e.g. stored on or in a computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium. The media may comprise any device that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or infrared signal or a semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium includes a magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory i.e. EPROM or Flash memory or an optical fiber. A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which executable instructions are printed as the logic may be electronically stored as an image or in another format e.g. through an optical scan then compiled and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A controller may be implemented as a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instruction sets may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors. The systems may be included in a wide variety of electronic devices including a cellular phone a headset a hands free set a speakerphone communication interface or an infotainment system.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

