---

title: Supplementing audio recorded in a media file
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer program products are provided for supplementing audio recorded in a media file. Embodiments include receiving a media file; identifying the subject matter of audio portion of the media file; identifying supplemental content for supplementing the subject matter recorded in the audio portion of the media file; and inserting in the media file markup for rendering the supplemental content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09318100&OS=09318100&RS=09318100
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09318100
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070103
---
The field of the invention is data processing or more specifically methods systems and products for supplementing audio recorded in a media file.

Managers are increasingly isolated from one another and their employees. One reason for this isolation is that managers are often time constrained and their communication occurs with many different devices and often communications requires two or more managers or employees to be available at the same time. There therefore is a need for improvement in communications among users such as managers and employees that reduces the devices used to communicate and reduces the requirement for more than one user to communicate at the same time.

Methods systems and computer program products are provided for supplementing audio recorded in a media file. Embodiments include receiving a media file identifying the subject matter of audio portion of the media file identifying supplemental content for supplementing the subject matter recorded in the audio portion of the media file and inserting in the media file markup for rendering the supplemental content.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular descriptions of exemplary embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numbers generally represent like parts of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Exemplary methods systems and products for asynchronous communications and supplementing audio recorded in a media file according to the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings beginning with . sets forth a network diagram of a system for asynchronous communications using messages recorded on handheld devices and for supplementing audio recorded in a media file according to the present invention according to embodiments of the present invention. Asynchronous communications means communications among parties that occurs with some time delay. Asynchronous communications according to the present invention may allow participants of communications to send receive and respond to communications at their own convenience with no requirement to be available simultaneously.

The system of includes to personal computers and coupled for data communications to a wide area network WAN . Each of the personal computers and of has installed upon them a local library application . A local library application includes computer program instructions capable of transferring media files containing recorded messages to a handheld recording device and . The local library application also includes computer program instructions capable of receiving media files containing messages from the handheld recording device and and transmitting the media files to a library management system .

The example of also includes a library management system . The library management system of is capable of asynchronous communications by receiving a recorded message having been recorded on a handheld device converting the recorded message to text identifying a recipient of the message in dependence upon the text associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text and storing the message for transmission to another handheld device for the recipient. The exemplary library management system of manages asynchronous communications using recorded messages according to the present invention as well as additional content associated with those recorded messages. Such associated content under management include for example other recorded messages created by senders and recipients emails media files containing media content spreadsheets presentations RSS Really Simple Syndication feeds web pages and well as any other content that will occur to those of skill in the art. Maintaining the content as well as managing asynchronous communications relating to that content may provide tight coupling between the communications between users and the content related to those communications. Such tight coupling provides the ability to determine that content under management is the subject of the communications and therefore provide an identification of such content to a recipient. Such tight coupling also provides the ability to attach that content to the message providing together the content which is the subject of the communications and the communications themselves.

The library management system of is also capable of supplementing audio recorded in a media file by receiving a media file identifying the subject matter of audio portion of the media file identifying supplemental content for supplementing the subject matter recorded in the audio portion of the media file and inserting in the media file markup for rendering the supplemental content. Supplementing audio recorded in a media file according to the present invention may improve the use and enjoyment of audio recorded on the media file.

The exemplary system of is capable of asynchronous communications according to the present invention by recording a message from a sender on handheld device . The handheld recording device of includes a microphone for receiving speech of the message and is capable of recording the message in a media file. One handheld recording device useful according to embodiments of the present invention is the WP U2J available from Samsung.

The exemplary system of is capable of transferring the media file containing the recorded message from the handheld recording device to a local library application . Media files containing one or messages may be transferred to the local library application by periodically synchronizing the handheld recording device with the local library application allowing a sender to begin transmission of the message at the convenience of the sender.

The exemplary system of is also capable of transferring the media file containing the recorded message to a library management system . The library management system comprises computer program instructions capable of receiving a recorded message converting the recorded message to text identifying a recipient of the message in dependence upon the text associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text and storing the message for transmission to another handheld device for the recipient

The exemplary system of is also capable of transferring the media file containing the recorded message to a local library application installed on a personal computer . The system of is also capable of transmitting message to the handheld recording device of the recipient who may listen to the message using headphones or speakers on the device. A recipient may transfer messages to the handheld device by synchronizing the handheld recording device with the local library application allowing the recipient to obtain messages at the recipients convenience. The recipient may now respond to the sender in the same manner providing two way asynchronous communications between sender and recipient.

The handheld recording devices and of are also useful in supplementing audio recorded in a media file. The handheld recording devices are also capable of capable of receiving a media file extracting markup from the media file rendering supplemental content in dependence upon the markup and playing the audio portion of the media file.

The arrangement of devices making up the exemplary system illustrated in is for explanation not for limitation. Data processing systems useful according to various embodiments of the present invention may include additional servers routers other devices and peer to peer architectures not shown in as will occur to those of skill in the art. Networks in such data processing systems may support many data communications protocols including for example TCP Transmission Control Protocol IP Internet Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol WAP Wireless Access Protocol HDTP Handheld Device Transport Protocol and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on a variety of hardware platforms in addition to those illustrated in .

Asynchronous communications in accordance with the present invention is generally implemented with computers that is with automated computing machinery. In the system of for example all the nodes servers and communications devices are implemented to some extent at least as computers. For further explanation therefore sets forth a block diagram of automated computing machinery comprising an exemplary library management system useful in asynchronous communications according to embodiments of the present invention. The library management system of includes at least one computer processor or CPU as well as random access memory RAM which is connected through a system bus to processor and to other components of the library management system.

Stored in RAM is a library management application for asynchronous communications according to the present invention including computer program instructions for receiving a recorded message the message recorded on a handheld device converting the recorded message to text identifying a recipient of the message in dependence upon the text associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text and storing the message for transmission to another handheld device for the recipient.

The library management application of includes a speech recognition engine computer program instructions for converting a recorded message to text. Examples of speech recognition engines capable of modification for use with library management applications according to the present invention include SpeechWorks available from Nuance Communications Dragon NaturallySpeaking also available from Nuance Communications ViaVoice available from IBM Speech Magic available from Philips Speech Recognition Systems iListen from MacSpeech Inc. and others as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The library management application of includes a speech synthesis engine computer program instructions for creating speech identifying the content associated with the message. Examples of speech engines capable of creating speech identifying the content associated with the message for example IBM s ViaVoice Text to Speech Acapela Multimedia TTS AT T Natural Voices Text to Speech Engine and Python s pyTTS class.

The library management application of includes a content management module computer program instructions for receiving a recorded message identifying a recipient of the message in dependence upon text converted from the message associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text and storing the message for transmission to another handheld device for the recipient.

The library management application of also includes a content supplement module computer program instructions for supplementing audio recorded in a media file. The content supplement module includes computer program instructions capable of receiving a media file identifying the subject matter of audio portion of the media file identifying supplemental content for supplementing the subject matter recorded in the audio portion of the media file and inserting in the media file markup for rendering the supplemental content.

Also stored in RAM is an application server a software platform that provides services and infrastructure required to develop and deploy business logic necessary to provide web clients with access to enterprise information systems. Also stored in RAM is an operating system . Operating systems useful in computers according to embodiments of the present invention include UNIX Linux Microsoft XP AIX IBM s i5 OS and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Operating system and library management module in the example of are shown in RAM but many components of such software typically are stored in non volatile memory also.

Library management system of includes non volatile computer memory coupled through a system bus to processor and to other components of the library management system . Non volatile computer memory may be implemented as a hard disk drive optical disk drive electrically erasable programmable read only memory space so called EEPROM or Flash memory RAM drives not shown or as any other kind of computer memory as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The exemplary library management system of includes one or more input output interface adapters . Input output interface adapters in library management systems implement user oriented input output through for example software drivers and computer hardware for controlling output to display devices such as computer display screens as well as user input from user input devices such as keyboards and mice.

The exemplary library management system of includes a communications adapter for implementing data communications with other computers . Such data communications may be carried out serially through RS 232 connections through external buses such as USB through data communications networks such as IP networks and in other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. Communications adapters implement the hardware level of data communications through which one computer sends data communications to another computer directly or through a network. Examples of communications adapters useful for asynchronous communications and supplementing audio according to embodiments of the present invention include modems for wired dial up communications Ethernet IEEE 802.3 adapters for wired network communications and 802.11b adapters for wireless network communications.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for asynchronous communications according to embodiments of the present invention that includes recording a message on handheld device . Recording a message on handheld device may be carried out by recording a message in the data format the handheld device supports. Examples of media files useful in asynchronous communications according to the present invention include MPEG 3 .mp3 files MPEG 4 .mp4 files Advanced Audio Coding AAC compressed files Advances Streaming Format ASF Files WAV files and many others as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of includes transferring a media file containing the recorded message to a library management system . As discussed above one way of transferring a media file containing the recorded message to a library management system includes synchronizing the handheld recording device with a local library application which in turns uploads the media file to the local management system. Synchronizing the handheld recording device with a local library application may provide a sender to record messages at the sender s convenience and also the sender to initiate the sending of those messages at the sender s convenience.

The method of also includes receiving the recorded message . In the example of a library management system receives the recorded message in a media file from a local library application . Local library applications according to the present invention may be configured to upload messages from a sender to a library management system and download messages for a recipient from a library management system periodically such as daily hourly and so on upon synchronization with handheld recording devices or in any other manner as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of also includes converting the recorded message to text . Converting the recorded message to text may be carried out by a speech recognition engine. Speech recognition is the process of converting a speech signal to a set of words by means of an algorithm implemented as a computer program. Different types of speech recognition engines currently exist. Isolated word speech recognition systems for example require the speaker to pause briefly between words whereas a continuous speech recognition systems do not. Furthermore some speech recognition systems require a user to provide samples of his or her own speech before using them whereas other systems are said to be speaker independent and do not require a user to provide samples.

To accommodate larger vocabularies speech recognition engines use language models or artificial grammars to restrict the combination of words and increase accuracy. The simplest language model can be specified as a finite state network where the permissible words following each word are explicitly given. More general language models approximating natural language are specified in terms of a context sensitive grammar.

Examples of commercial speech recognition engines currently available include SpeechWorks available from Nuance Communications Dragon NaturallySpeaking also available from Nuance Communications ViaVoice available from IBM Speech Magic available from Philips Speech Recognition Systems iListen from MacSpeech Inc. and others as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of also includes identifying a recipient of the message in dependence upon the text . Identifying a recipient of the message in dependence upon the text may be carried out by scanning the text for previously identified names or user identifications. Upon finding a match identifying a recipient of the message may be carried out by retrieving a user profile for the identified recipient including information facilitating sending the message to the recipient.

The method of also includes associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text . Associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text may be carried out by creating speech identifying the content associated with the message and associating the speech with the recorded message for transmission with the recorded message as discussed below with reference to . Associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text may also be carried out by extracting keywords from the text and searching content under management for the keywords as discussed below with reference to . Associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text may also be carried out by extracting an explicit identification of the associated content from the text and searching content under management for the identified content as discussed below with reference with .

The method of also includes storing the message for transmission to another handheld device for the recipient . In the example of a library management system stores the message for downloading to local library application for the recipient.

The method of also includes transmitting the message to another handheld device . Transmitting the message to another handheld device according to the method of may be carried out by downloading the message to a local library application for the recipient and synchronizing the handheld recording device with the local library application . Local library applications according to the present invention may be configured to download messages for a recipient from a library management system periodically such as daily hourly and so on upon synchronization with handheld recording devices or in any other manner as will occur to those of skill in the art.

To aid users in communication content identified as associated with communications among users may be identified described in speech and presented to those users thereby seamlessly supplementing the existing communications among the users. For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text . The method of includes creating speech identifying the content associated with the message . Creating speech identifying the content associated with the message may be carried out by processing the text using a text to speech engine in order to produce a speech presentation of the text and then recording the speech produced by the text speech engine in the audio portion of a media file. Examples of speech engines capable of converting text to speech for recording in the audio portion of a media file include for example IBM s ViaVoice Text to Speech Acapela Multimedia TTS AT T Natural Voices Text to Speech Engine and Python s pyTTS class. Each of these text to speech engines is composed of a front end that takes input in the form of text and outputs a symbolic linguistic representation to a back end that outputs the received symbolic linguistic representation as a speech waveform.

Typically speech synthesis engines operate by using one or more of the following categories of speech synthesis articulatory synthesis formant synthesis and concatenative synthesis. Articulatory synthesis uses computational biomechanical models of speech production such as models for the glottis and the moving vocal tract. Typically an articulatory synthesizer is controlled by simulated representations of muscle actions of the human articulators such as the tongue the lips and the glottis. Computational biomechanical models of speech production solve time dependent 3 dimensional differential equations to compute the synthetic speech output. Typically articulatory synthesis has very high computational requirements and has lower results in terms of natural sounding fluent speech than the other two methods discussed below.

Formant synthesis uses a set of rules for controlling a highly simplified source filter model that assumes that the glottal source is completely independent from a filter which represents the vocal tract. The filter that represents the vocal tract is determined by control parameters such as formant frequencies and bandwidths. Each formant is associated with a particular resonance or peak in the filter characteristic of the vocal tract. The glottal source generates either stylized glottal pulses for periodic sounds and generates noise for aspiration. Formant synthesis often generates highly intelligible but not completely natural sounding speech. However formant synthesis typically has a low memory footprint and only moderate computational requirements.

Concatenative synthesis uses actual snippets of recorded speech that are cut from recordings and stored in an inventory or voice database either as waveforms or as encoded speech. These snippets make up the elementary speech segments such as for example phones and diphones. Phones are composed of a vowel or a consonant whereas diphones are composed of phone to phone transitions that encompass the second half of one phone plus the first half of the next phone. Some concatenative synthesizers use so called demi syllables in effect applying the diphone method to the time scale of syllables. Concatenative synthesis then strings together or concatenates elementary speech segments selected from the voice database and after optional decoding outputs the resulting speech signal. Because concatenative systems use snippets of recorded speech they often have the highest potential for sounding like natural speech but concatenative systems typically require large amounts of database storage for the voice database.

The method of also includes associating the speech with the recorded message for transmission with the recorded message . Associating the speech with the recorded message for transmission with the recorded message may be carried out by including the speech in the same media file as the recoded message creating a new media file containing both the recorded message and the created speech or any other method of associating the speech with the recorded message as will occur to those of skill in the art.

As discussed above associated messages with content under management often requires identifying the content. For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating another method for associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text . The method of includes extracting keywords from the text . Extracting keywords from the text may be carried out by extracting words from the text that elicit information about content associated with the subject matter of the message such as for example politics work movies and so. Extracting keywords from the text also may be carried out by extracting words from the text identifying types of content such as for example email file presentation and so on. Extracting keywords from the text also may be carried out by extracting words from the text having temporal semantics such as yesterday Monday 10 00 am. and so on. The examples of extracting words indicative of subject matter content type or temporal semantics are presented for explanation and not for limitation. In fact associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text may be carried out in many was as will occur to those of skill in the art and all such ways are within the scope of the present invention.

The method of also includes searching content under management for the keywords . Searching content under management for the keywords may be carried out by searching the titles metadata and content itself for the keywords and identifying as a match content having the most matching keywords or content having the best matching keywords according to predefined algorithms for selecting matching content from potential matches.

In some cases the messages comprising communications among users may contain an explicit identification of content under management. For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating another method for associating the message with content under management by a library management system in dependence upon the text includes extracting an explicit identification of the associated content from the text and searching content under management for the identified content . Extracting an explicit identification of the associated content from the text may be carried out by identifying one or more words in the text matching a title or closely matching a title or metadata identification of specific content under management. For example the phrase the Jones Presentation may be extracted as an explicit identification of a PowerPoint Presentation entitled Jones Presentation May 2 2006. For example the phrase Your message of Yesterday may be extracted as an explicit identification of a message from the intended recipient of the message send a day earlier than the current message from which the text was converted according to the present invention.

As mentioned above the content of messages stored in audio portion of media files for asynchronous communications and other content stored in the audio portion of a media file may be supplemented to provide additional information and often added enjoyment for a user. For further explanation therefore sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for supplementing audio recorded in a media file. The method of includes receiving a media file . In the example of the media file is received in a library management system . Receiving a media file may be carried out by synchronizing a handheld recording device with a local library application which in turns uploads the media file to the local management system . Receiving a media file may also be carried out by transmitting the media file to the library management system from another server through for example purchase or transfer or another computer as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The exemplary media file of has content stored in the audio portion of the media file. The content stored in the media file may be messages recorded by users for asynchronous communications content such as songs speech recordings and other content as will occur to those of skill in the art. Examples of media files useful in supplementing audio recorded in a media file according to the present invention include MPEG 3 .mp3 files MPEG 4 .mp4 files Advanced Audio Coding AAC compressed files Advances Streaming Format ASF Files WAV files and many others as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of also includes identifying the subject matter of audio portion of the media file . Identifying the subject matter of audio portion of the media file may be carried out by retrieving an identification of the subject matter of the media file stored as metadata in a header of the media file. For example in an MPEG file such a header may be an ID3v2 tag designed to store metadata about the content on the media file. An ID3v2 tag is prepended to the audio portion of the media file. An ID3v2 tag provides a container for metadata associated with the media file. An ID3v2 tag includes one or more fames supporting the inclusion of text images files and other information. ID3v2 tags are flexible and expandable because parsers that do not support specific functions of the ID3v2 tag will ignore those functions. ID3v2 supports Unicode thereby providing the ability to include metadata in text of many different languages. The maximum tag size of an ID3v2 tag is typically 256 megabytes and maximum frame size is typically 16 megabytes.

Identifying the subject matter of audio portion of the media file may be also carried out by converting the audio portion to text and determining a subject matter from the text. As discussed above converting the audio portion to text may be carried out by a speech recognition engine such as for example SpeechWorks available from Nuance Communications Dragon NaturallySpeaking also available from Nuance Communications ViaVoice available from IBM Speech Magic available from Philips Speech Recognition Systems iListen from MacSpeech Inc. and others as will occur to those of skill in the art.

Determining a subject matter from the text may be carried out by parsing the text in dependence upon rules predetermined to identify words indicative of the subject matter of the content recorded on the audio portion of the media file. Such rules may for example ignore commonly used words such as a the and and so on and then use a weighted algorithm to extract words that may be used to determine the subject matter of the content recorded on the audio portion of the media file.

The method of also includes identifying supplemental content for supplementing the subject matter recorded in the audio portion of the media file . Identifying supplemental content for supplementing the subject matter recorded in the audio portion of the media file may be carried out by retrieving markup from a database that is indexed by subject matter. Such markup when rendered by browser provides additional content for supplementing the recorded audio portion of a media file.

The markup may include markup for visual rendering by a browser such as for example HyperText Markup Language HTML . The markup may also include voice markup to be rendered by a multimodal browser such as for example VoiceXML X V XHTML plus Voice and so on as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of also includes inserting in the media file markup for rendering the supplemental content . Inserting in the media file the markup for rendering the supplemental content may be carried out by including the markup in a header in the media file. For example markup may be included in an ID3v2 tag of an MPEG media file.

Having included the markup for supplementing the content recorded in the audio portion of the media file the markup may now be rendered to supplement in real time the audio played on a handheld recording device. For further explanation therefore sets forth a flow chart illustrating further aspects of some embodiments of supplementing audio recorded in a media file according to the present invention. The method of includes receiving the media file . Receiving the media file may be carried out by downloading the media file from a library management system to a local library application for the user and synchronizing the handheld recording device with the local library application . Local library applications according to the present invention may be configured to download media files from the library management system periodically such as daily hourly and so on upon synchronization with handheld recording devices or in any other manner as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The method of also includes extracting markup from the media file . Extracting markup from the media file may be carried out by extracting markup from an ID3v2 tag in for example an MPEG media file.

The method of also includes rendering supplemental content in dependence upon the markup and playing the audio portion of the media file . Rendering supplemental content in dependence upon the markup may be carried out by rendering the supplemental content on a browser installed on a handheld recording device. Similarly playing the audio portion of the media file may be carried out by playing the audio portion of a media file by a handheld recording device.

For improved user experience the supplemental content may be rendered synchronized with the playback of the content on the media file. For example the timing of content rendered according to the markup on the browser may be timed according to duration of the audio recorded on the media file. In some embodiments of the method of therefore extracting markup from the media file includes extracting synchronization markup from the media file. Synchronization markup is markup dictating to a browser timing information for synchronizing supplemental content with the playback of the media file. In such embodiments rendering supplemental content in dependence upon the markup is carried out by synchronizing the rendering of the supplemental content with the playing of the audio portion of the media file in dependence upon the synchronization markup.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described largely in the context of a fully functional computer system for asynchronous communications using messages recorded on handheld devices and supplementing audio recorded in a media file. Readers of skill in the art will recognize however that the present invention also may be embodied in a computer program product disposed on computer readable media for use with any suitable data processing system. Such computer readable media may be transmission media or recordable media for machine readable information including magnetic media optical media or other suitable media. Examples of recordable media include magnetic disks in hard drives or diskettes compact disks for optical drives magnetic tape and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Examples of transmission media include telephone networks for voice communications and digital data communications networks such as for example Ethernets and networks that communicate with the Internet Protocol and the World Wide Web as well as wireless transmission media such as for example networks implemented according to the IEEE 802.11 family of specifications. Persons skilled in the art will immediately recognize that any computer system having suitable programming means will be capable of executing the steps of the method of the invention as embodied in a program product. Persons skilled in the art will recognize immediately that although some of the exemplary embodiments described in this specification are oriented to software installed and executing on computer hardware nevertheless alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that modifications and changes may be made in various embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. The descriptions in this specification are for purposes of illustration only and are not to be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is limited only by the language of the following claims.

