---

title: Video game processing apparatus, video game processing method and video game processing program
abstract: A controller executes a special effect selection representation using a slot representation representing a slot machine when a fever accumulative value, which is accumulated by a player character doing damage to an enemy character, reaches a predetermined value, and a fever gauge becomes filled up, in accordance with a player's operation. The controller assigns a special effect to the player character in accordance with a result of the representation. Then, when the fever accumulative value is sequentially subtracted and reduced to an initial value, the assignment of the special effect to the player character is finished. Thus, the special effect to be assigned to the player character when predetermined selection allowance conditions are fulfilled is prevented from being specified in advance by the player, and increase the player's interest in a game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08113931&OS=08113931&RS=08113931
owner: Kabushiki Kaisha Square Enix
number: 08113931
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070119
---
The present disclosure relates to subject matter contained in Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 054459 filed on Mar. 1 2006 the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a technique for controlling a progress of a game by displaying a player character on a display screen of a display device and controlling an action of the player character displayed on the display screen in accordance with a player s operation.

Conventionally various kinds of so called role playing games RPG that is a game in which a player plays a role of a character in a game world and achieves a predetermined object while enjoying a process that the character grows through various experiences have been proposed.

In the RPG generally a player character acting in accordance with a player s operation wins a battle against an enemy character impeding the achievement of the predetermined object and thereby the player gains various benefits such as an experiential value.

In not only the RPG but also other types of video games some kinds of benefits are given to the player character when predetermined conditions are fulfilled. For example there is a video game in which the number of predetermined characters is increased or a player character becomes in an invincible state. Also Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication No. 2004 000354 for example discloses a video game in which in a battle scene against an enemy character points accumulate on a gauge and the like each time an attack by a player character hits the enemy character and some kinds of benefits such as an ability for using a special technique is given to the player character when the points reach a fixed level.

However in the video game described in Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication No. 2004 000354 because the benefits which the player character is given are oversimplified and the player can previously know what kinds of benefits are given a player may lose his her interests in the game.

It is an object of the present invention to solve the problems described above and to prevent a special effect to be given to a player character from being specified in advance by a player when predetermined conditions are fulfilled and thereby to increase a player s interest in a game.

According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a video game processing apparatus for example a video game apparatus a video game apparatus main body as shown in that causes an image display apparatus to display a player character of a video game on an image screen of the image display apparatus. The video game processing apparatus controls progress of the video game by controlling an action of the player character displayed on the image screen in accordance with operations by a player. The apparatus includes a special effect selection representation unit that executes a special effect selection representation for selecting any one of a predetermined plurality of kinds of special effects in a drawing based on an establishment of predetermined selection allowance conditions. The apparatus further includes a special effect assigning unit that assigns to the player character the special effect selected in the special effect selection representation.

With such a configuration it is possible to prevent a special effect to be assigned to the player character when the predetermined selection allowance conditions are fulfilled from being specified in advance by the player enabling the player s interest in the game to be increased.

The video game processing apparatus may further include a special effect assignment determiner that determines whether to assign the special effect to the player character when the predetermined selection allowance conditions are established. In the apparatus the special effect selection representation executing unit executes the special effect selection representation when the special effect assignment determiner determines to assign the special effect.

The video game processing apparatus may further include a special effect non assignment representation executing unit that executes a special effect non assignment representation for notifying that none of the predetermined plurality of kinds of special effects is assigned. In the apparatus the special effect non assignment representation executing unit executes the special effect non assignment representation when the special effect assignment determiner determines not to assign the special effect.

With such a configuration it is possible to carry out the special effect non assignment representation when no special effect is assigned. Particularly by carrying out a special effect non assignment representation similar to the special effect selection representation it is possible to cause the player to have hopes thereby enabling a further increase in the player s enjoyment of the game.

The video game processing apparatus may further include an action value accumulating unit that accumulates action values according to a predetermined action relating to the player character. In the apparatus the selection allowance conditions are established when the action values accumulated by the action value accumulating unit reaches the predetermined value.

With such a configuration it is possible to cause the player to operate the player character with a purpose of accumulating the action value enabling a further increase in the player s enjoyment of the game.

In the video game processing apparatus the action value accumulating unit may accumulate the action values in accordance with a number of hits from attacks made for an enemy character by the player character or damage done to the enemy character by the attacks made by the player character. Also the action value accumulating unit may accumulate the action values in accordance with a number of hits from attacks made on the player character by the enemy character or damage done to the player character by the attacks made by the enemy character.

The video game processing apparatus may further include an action value subtracting unit that temporally subtracts the action values accumulated by the action value accumulating unit from a timing at which the special effect assigning unit assigns a special effect to the player character. In the apparatus the special effect assigned to the player character may remain effective until a fixed period of time elapses until the action value is reduced to an initial value by the subtraction of the action value subtracting unit.

With such a configuration it is possible to cause the player to recognize a remaining time for which the special effect continues.

The video game processing apparatus may include a special effect assignment request receiver that receives a request for a special effect assignment to the player character after the predetermined selection allowance conditions are established. In the apparatus the special effect selection representation executing unit may execute the special effect selection representation when the special effect assignment request receiver receives the request for the special effect assignment.

With such a configuration it is possible for the player to specify a timing for executing the special effect selection representation enabling a further increase in the player s enjoyment of the game.

The special effect selection representation may include for example a slot representation representing a slot machine or a roulette representation representing a roulette game.

The special effect may be for example a merit for increasing an action ability of the player character or a demerit for reducing the action ability of the player character.

According to a second aspect there is provided a video game processing method for causing an image display apparatus to display a player character of a video game on an image screen of the image display apparatus. The method controls progress of the video game by controlling an action of the player character displayed on the image screen in accordance with operations by a player. The method includes executing a special effect selection representation for selecting any one of a predetermined plurality of kinds of special effects in a drawing based on an establishment of predetermined selection allowance conditions. The method further includes assigning to the player character the special effect selected in the special effect selection representation.

According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a computer program product for processing a video game. The progress of the video game is controlled by causing an image display apparatus to display a player character of a video game on an image screen of the image display apparatus and controlling an action of the player character displayed on the image screen in accordance with operations by a player. The computer program product causes a computer to execute a special effect selection representation for selecting any one of a predetermined plurality of kinds of special effects in a drawing based on an establishment of predetermined selection allowance conditions. The computer program product further causes a computer to assign to the player character the special effect selected in the special effect selection representation.

According to the invention it is possible to prevent a special effect which is to be assigned to the player character when the predetermined selection allowance conditions are fulfilled from being specified in advance by the player enabling the player s interest in the game to be increased.

Hereafter a description will be given of an embodiment of the invention with reference to the appended drawings.

As shown in the video game apparatus of this embodiment includes a video game apparatus main body a display device and a sound output device . The video game apparatus main body is constituted from for example a commercial video game machine. Also the display device is constituted from for example a television apparatus a liquid crystal display device and the like and includes an image display screen .

The video game apparatus main body includes a controller a RAM a hard disk drive HDD a sound processor a graphics processor a DVD CD ROM drive a communications interface section an interface a frame memory a memory card slot and an input interface section .

Each of the controller RAM hard disk drive HDD sound processor graphics processor DVD CD ROM drive communications interface section and interface section is connected to an internal bus .

The controller includes a CPU ROM and the like and carries out control of the whole of the video game apparatus in accordance with one or more control programs stored in the HDD or a storage medium . The controller includes an internal timer used to generate timer interruption. The RAM is used as a work area of the controller . The HDD is a storage area for storing the control programs and various data.

The sound processor is connected to the sound output device which includes for example a speaker. The sound processor outputs sound signals to the sound output device in accordance with a sound output command from the controller executing a process in accordance with the one or more control programs. The sound output device may be embedded in the display device or the video game apparatus main body .

The graphics processor is connected to the display device including the image display screen on which an image is displayed. The graphics processor develops an image on the frame memory in accordance with a drawing command from the controller and outputs video signals for displaying the image on the image display screen to the display device . A switching time for images to be displayed based on the video signal is set to for example 1 30 seconds per frame.

The storage medium such as for example a DVD ROM medium and a CD ROM medium in which a control program for a game is stored is mounted in the DVD CD ROM drive . The DVD CD ROM drive carries out a process for reading various data such as the control program from the storage medium .

The communications interface is connected to a communication network such as the Internet for example in a wired or wireless manner. The video game apparatus main body carries out communications with for example another computer via the communication network using a communication function of the communications interface .

Both the input interface section and the memory card slot are connected to the interface . The interface section stores instruction data from the input interface section in the RAM based on operation of a keypad by a player. Then in accordance with the instruction data stored in the RAM the controller executes various arithmetic processes.

The video game apparatus main body is connected via the input interface section to the keypad which serves as an operation input unit a controller .

A cross key a group of buttons a left joystick and a right joystick are arranged on the upper surface of the keypad . The cross key includes an up key a down key a right key and a left key and the group of buttons includes a circle button an X button a triangle button and a square button . Also a select button is arranged at a connecting portion between a base on which the cross key is arranged and a base on which the group of buttons is arranged. Multiple buttons such as an R button and an L button are also arranged on the side surface of the keypad .

The keypad is provided with switches respectively connected to the cross key the circle button the X button the triangle button the square button the select button the R button the L button and the like. When a pressure is applied to each button the corresponding switch is turned on. A detection signal corresponding to a turning on off of the switch is generated in the keypad and a detection signal corresponding to a tilt direction of the left joystick and the right joystick is also generated in the keypad .

The two types of detection signals generated in the keypad are supplied to the input interface and the detection signals from the keypad are caused to pass through the input interface by which detection information indicating which button on the keypad is turned on and detection information indicating the state of each of the left joystick and the right joystick are generated. In this way operation commands to the keypad by a player is given to the video game apparatus main body .

Also the interface section in accordance with the commands from the controller carries out a process to store data during a game progress which is stored in the RAM in a memory card installed in the memory card slot . The interface section also carries out a process to read data of the game at the time of suspending the game which data are stored in the memory card and to transfer such data to the RAM and the like.

Various data such as the control program for playing the game with the video game apparatus are stored in for example the storage medium . Various data such as the control program stored in the storage medium are read by the DVD CD ROM drive having the storage medium installed therein and are loaded into the RAM . The controller in accordance with the control program loaded into the RAM executes various processes such as a process to output the drawing command to the graphics processor and a process to output a sound outputting command to the sound processor . While the controller executes the processes intermediate data generated based on the game process such as for example data indicating a game score the state of a player character and the like are stored in the RAM used as a work memory.

It is assumed that the three dimensional video game according to this embodiment is a game in which the game proceeds as multiple characters including a player character that is a character which acts in accordance with the operation of the keypad by the player move on a field provided in a virtual three dimensional space. It is assumed that the virtual three dimensional space in which the field is formed is indicated by a world coordinate system. The field is configured of multiple surfaces and vertex coordinates of the respective constituent surfaces are represented as feature points.

Next a description will be given of an operation of the video game apparatus according to the present embodiment.

Herein in order to simplify the explanation it is assumed that only a single player character and multiple non player characters NPC characters acting in accordance with a control by the game machine apparatus specifically control by the controller exist as objects acting in the virtual three dimensional space and the description of any process other than processes particularly relating to the invention may be omitted. In this embodiment a video game control for an RPG is executed.

In the present embodiment the game progresses in a common field in which various actions including a movement of the player character and a battle by the player character are allowed. When a predetermined object in the field is achieved a stage in the field is terminated and the processing proceeds to another stage in a next field. Also in the present embodiment a same time basis is applied to each character appearing on a field and once the character appears unless a hit point HP that is a value representing a vital energy is reduced to 0 it moves and stands still in the field in accordance with the same time base. A portion displayed on the image display screen as a character image exists within a field of view of a virtual camera in the field.

In the main process if the game has not been started the controller determines whether a game start instruction has been generated by a player s operation of the keypad . Alternatively if the game is being executed the controller determines whether a time has come to change the scene for example a change of the field step S . The time to carry change the scene refers to for example a time to finish a scene for example a scene displayed by the virtual three dimensional space and a scene displayed by an animation effect using a moving image displayed on the image display screen to display a virtual three dimensional space showing the new scene on the image display .

If the controller determines that the game start instruction has been given or that the time has come to carry out the scene change Yes in step S it determines an initial screen an initial screen at the time of the game start or an initial screen at the time of the scene change in accordance with the control program step S . Various data such as image data used for the game and characters are stored in the storage medium . In step S an initial display position of the player character in the initial screen or a scene after a scene change such as for example a new stage an NPC to be displayed and its initial display position and the like are determined in accordance with the control program.

Next the controller determines a viewpoint position a visual axis direction and a visual angle size of the virtual camera in accordance with the control program and carries out an initialization of the virtual camera for carrying out a perspective transformation step S . Then the processing proceeds to step S.

If the controller determines that the game is being executed and that the time has not come to carry out the scene change No in step S it receives instruction data based on a player s operation of the keypad step S . That is the controller determines whether instruction data for causing an action or the like of the player character to be executed have been input from the keypad . If effective instruction data meaning instruction data of which a reception is allowed have been input the controller receives the instruction data.

If the controller receives instruction data for instructing the action of the player character relating to the movement such as for example movement instruction data a movement command and a movement instruction by a direction instruction key at step S Yes in step S the controller executes a movement process in accordance with the received movement instruction data step S . In the movement process the controller moves a position of the player character in a virtual space on a current field in accordance with the received movement instruction data. The movement command may include for example a dash instruction command and the like. The dash instruction command is a command for causing the player character to move quickly and in the event that the player character is in the middle of a battle a command for giving an instruction to move away run away quickly from a battle area.

Next the controller generates movement information based on position information of the player character derived along with the movement process step S . That is in accordance with a movement of the position of the player character by the movement process the controller updates necessary data among data on the viewpoint position data on visual axis direction and data on visual angle size of the virtual camera and changes setting content of the virtual camera. The movement information includes various kinds of information relating to the movement such as for example the moved position of the player character and the viewpoint position visual axis direction visual angle size and the like of the virtual camera changed by the movement of the player character. Then the processing proceeds to step S.

If in step S the controller in accordance with an operation of the keypad for instructing an action of the player character relating to the battle a battle operation No in step S receives instruction data for instructing the action relating to the battle such as for example battle instruction data a battle command Yes in step S the controller executes a battle process in accordance with the received battle instruction data step S . In the battle process the controller executes for example a process for determining a result and a progression of a battle between the player character and an enemy character acting as its opponent and the like.

Next the controller generates battle information based on the battle result and progression determined by the battle process step S . That is in accordance with the battle result and progression determined by the battle process the controller updates and sets necessary information among the names of the player character and the enemy character which the player battles a battle progression a battle result a parameter defining an ability of the player character and the like. The battle information includes a variety of information related to the battle such as for example the names of the player character and the enemy character which have fought with each other the battle progression the battle and the parameter defining the ability of the player character. Then the processing proceeds to step S.

When the controller receives instruction data for the other instructions that is other instruction data such as for example other commands which may include a conversation shopping discarding or picking up items and the like in accordance with operations of the keypad for executing the other instructions other operations in step S Yes in step S the controller executes processes corresponding to the other instruction data received for example a conversation shopping discarding gaining items and the like step S . Then the controller generates other various kinds of information corresponding to process results of step S. Then the processing proceeds to step S.

In step S the controller updates the current position of the player character by storing the movement information generated in step S in a predetermined data area of the RAM . Also in step S the controller stores and retains various action histories of the player character by storing the battle information generated in step S and the other various information generated after step S in predetermined data areas of the RAM .

Next the controller executes an action evaluation process based on the action histories temporarily stored in the RAM step S . Specifically information required to be digitalized is digitalized using a conversion table prepared in advance and with respect to information required to be weighted a score is calculated by multiplying predetermined numerical values and summing the multiplied numerical values. Then by adding the calculated score to an old score stored in a predetermined data area of the RAM and storing the sum in the predetermined area again a score provided as evaluation information is updated.

Then the controller perspectively transforms the virtual three dimensional space including the player character and non player characters to be displayed from the virtual camera onto a virtual screen in accordance with the setting contents of the virtual camera. Then the controller carries out a display process for generating a two dimensional image to be displayed on the image display screen step S . When the display process is finished the current main process is also finished. Subsequently when a timer interruption occurs at a start timing of the next frame period a next main process is executed. Then by repeatedly executing the main process the character image is switched every frame period and an animation is displayed on the image display screen .

At this point a brief description will be given of the display process in step S. In step S the controller converts at least vertex coordinates of a polygon included in a range to be perspectively transformed onto the virtual screen among vertex coordinates of polygons configuring the three dimensional space including the player character and the non player characters from coordinates of the world coordinate system into coordinates of the viewpoint coordinate system. Subsequently the controller transmits the vertex coordinates of polygons of the player character and the non player characters in the viewpoint coordinate system to the graphic processor and thereby outputting a drawing command to the graphics processor .

On receiving the drawing command the graphic processor based on the coordinates of the viewpoint coordinate system updates contents of a Z buffer so that data on the points at the front side are retained with respect to individual points constituting each surface. When the graphic processor updates the contents of the Z buffer it develops image data on the remaining points at the front side on the frame memory . Also the graphic processor carries out processes such as for example a shading process and a texture mapping process with respect to the image data to be expanded.

Then the graphic processor sequentially reads the image data expanded on the frame memory and generates a video signal by adding a synchronization signal to output the video signal to the display device . The display device displays an image corresponding to the video signal output from the graphic processor on the image display . By switching the images on the image display every frame time the player can see the image including the state in which the player character and the non player characters move on a field.

Next a description will be given of an example of a three dimensional field screen to be displayed on the image display screen of the display device in the video game of the example.

The fever value refers to an accumulative value of values acquired in case where the player character attacks the enemy character or the player character is attacked by the enemy character . The fever state refers to a state in which the player character is provided with a special effect ready to be exercised when the fever value reaches a predetermined value and the fever gauge becomes filled up. The case where the player character is attacked by the enemy character refers to a case where the HP of the player character is reduced due to an attack by the enemy character . The case where the player character attacks the enemy character is a case where the HP of the enemy character is reduced due to an attack by the player character .

In this embodiment when the fever value reaches the predetermined value and the fever gauge becomes filled up it is possible to place the player character in the fever state if the player wants a transition to the fever state. That is in this embodiment even when the fever value reaches the predetermined value and the fever gauge becomes filled up the player character is not immediately placed in the fever state.

In this embodiment a fever value acquired by a battle against an enemy character may include a value determined by damage given to the enemy character. For example a fever value of 100 is obtained when 100 damage has been given to the enemy character. Otherwise the damage value of 100 may be multiplied by a predetermined factor such as 0.1 to obtain the fever value of 10. The fever value may also be determined by a number of hit attacks among attacks made by the player character to the enemy character.

Also in this embodiment the fever value acquired in the battle against the enemy character also may include a value determined by damage given to the player character from the enemy character. For example a fever value of 100 is obtained when the 100 damage is given to the player character from the enemy character. Otherwise the damage value may be multiplied by a predetermined factor such as 0.1 and a fever value of 100 0.1 10 may be obtained. Alternatively the fever value may be determined by a number of hit attacks among the attacks which the player character has suffered from the enemy character.

The fever value may be determined based upon either only the damage given to the enemy character or only the damage given to the player character from the enemy character.

Generally in the RPG as the game progresses the maximum HP value of the player character increases by which an attack ability of the player character increases. In the same way as the game progresses a maximum HP value and an attack ability of the enemy character also increase. That is in case where the fever value is determined based on the damage degree the fever gauge may be filled up in the short term as the RPG proceeds toward its second half. This means that that there is a possibility that the player may lack enjoyment of the game. For this the value of the factor may be decreased as the RPG progresses to maintain a balance in the fever value. Also the value of the factor may be set higher in the case where the player character gives damages to the enemy character than in the case where the player character is damaged by the enemy character.

Also the fever value may be calculated with the following as factors apart from the damage which the player character gives to the enemy character damage which the player character suffers from the enemy character the number of the hit attacks which the player character makes against the enemy character and the number of hit attacks which the player character has suffered from the enemy character the mechanism used for doing damage to the enemy character such as for example a sword or magic a type of the enemy characters to which damages are given and a level such as for example a set strength of the player character and the like.

Next a description will be given of a special effect assignment process in the video game apparatus of this embodiment. is a flowchart showing an example of the special effect assignment process in the video game apparatus of this embodiment. The special effect assignment process includes processes relating to a special effect assignment to the player character. The special effect assignment process is activated by repeatedly executing the main process.

In the special effect assignment process the controller determines whether an attack by the player character has hit the enemy character step S . If the controller determines that the attack by the player character has hit the enemy character Yes in step S the controller determines the fever value based on the attack and adds the determined fever value to a fever accumulative value step S . The fever accumulative value is a total sum of the fever values.

Also the controller determines whether the player character had been attacked by an enemy character step S No in step S . If the controller determines that the player character has been attacked by the enemy character Yes in step S it determines the fever value based on the attack and adds the determined fever value to the accumulative value step S . If the controller determines that the player character has not been attacked by the enemy character No in step S the special effect assignment process returns to step S.

If the controller determines in step S that the attack has hit the enemy character Yes in step S or if it determines in step S that the player character has been attacked by the enemy character Yes in step S for example as shown in the controller carries out a fever value acquisition notification display indicating that the fever value has been obtained. As shown in the fever value acquisition notification display is a display in which herein a predetermined position glows in the fever gauge .

Then when the fever value is added in step S the controller increases a scale of the fever gauge in accordance with an increment of the fever accumulative value. Specifically in case where the fever value is added in step S and the fever accumulative value reaches 1 10 of a maximum fever value for example a value when the fever gauge is filled up for example a predetermined color is given to one gauge of ten gauges configuring the fever gauge as shown in . In this embodiment when all of the ten gauges are colored it means that the fever gauge is filled up.

When the fever value is added to the fever accumulative value step S the controller determines whether the fever accumulative value has reached a predetermined maximum value step S . If the fever accumulative value has not reached the predetermined maximum value No in step S the processing returns to step S. If the fever accumulative value has reached the predetermined maximum value Yes in step S the controller proceeds to step S and goes into a waiting state in which it waits for an activation of a predetermined button by a player s operation of the keypad No in step S .

On receiving an instruction signal based on the activation of the predetermined button for example the select button by the player s operation of the keypad Yes in step S the controller places the player character in a predetermined fever state step S .

That is when the fever accumulative value has reached the predetermined maximum value and the fever gauge is filled up when all the gauges in the fever gauge are colored if the predetermined button is activated by the player s operation to the keypad as shown in the controller displays FEVER above the fever gauge by which the player character becomes in the predetermined fever state.

In this embodiment when the player character is placed in the fever state this player character can cancel an attack action rigidity time. In addition if the player character is equipped with two weapons the player may execute continuous attacks by combining the two weapons. Also the player character may use a deadly technique extensively and quickly.

Next the controller carries out a special effect selection representation operation step S . is a flowchart showing a specific example of a special effect selection representation operation process in step S. In the special effect selection representation operation the controller determines whether to assign a special effect step S . The determination may be made using for example a random number or the like. If the controller determines not to assign a special effect for example it determines to make it a miss No in step S the controller carries out a miss representation to notify the player that the special effect should not be assigned step S . Then the processing proceeds to step S.

If the controller determines to assign a special effect for example the controller determines to make it a big hit or a hit Yes in step S it determines whether the special effect to be assigned is provided as a merit or a demerit step S . The determination may be made using for example a random number or the like. If the controller determines that the special effect is provided as the merit Yes in step S it carries out a merit assignment representation for notifying the player that the merit should be assigned step S . Then the processing proceeds to step S. Meanwhile if the controller determines that the special effect is provided as the demerit No in step S it carries out a demerit assignment representation for notifying the player that the demerit should be assigned step S . Then the processing proceeds to step S.

The big hit refers to an alignment of three left central and right symbols and an assignment of the merit or the demerit in accordance with the aligned symbols. Also the hit refers to an alignment of two of the three left central and right symbols and an assignment of the merit for example a restoration of all the HP and the like or the demerit for example an appearance of a monster or the like in accordance with the aligned symbols.

The determination in step S may be made by the time at least a second one of the three left central and right symbols is visibly stopped. The determination in step S may be made by the time at least all the three left central and right symbols are visibly stopped.

In this regard a description will be given of examples of the special effect selection representation the merit assignment representation and the demerit assignment representation and the miss representation. In the merit assignment representation the controller as shown in changes the fever gauge into three left central and right big symbol display areas and and carries out an effect display representing a slot machine in which for example five kinds of symbols change at random. At this point the notification may be made to inform that the special effect selection representation is ready by causing a whole of the fever gauge to glow. In a display in each of the symbol display areas to in which symbols are varying sequentially and a stop symbol has not been determined is represented by 

When the merit assignment representation is started as shown in a symbol is visibly stopped in the left symbol display area . Next as shown in a symbol is visibly stopped in the central symbol display area . Then as shown in a symbol is visibly stopped in the right symbol display area

Any way of determining left central and right stop symbols is acceptable. However in case where it is determined to assign a special effect a control is carried out in such a way that at least two of three symbols are aligned. Also in case where it is determined not to assign a special effect a control is carried out in such a way as to execute a miss representation such that all three left central and right symbols differ from one another. Then in case where it is determined to assign the merit a control is carried out in such a way as to execute a merit assignment representation such that at least two of symbols showing an assignment of the merit are aligned. Furthermore in case where it is determined to assign the demerit a control is carried out in such a way as to execute a demerit assignment representation such that at least two of symbols showing an assignment of the demerit are aligned. The representation in is an example of the merit assignment representation .

Although in this embodiment it is determined in advance whether the special effect is to be assigned or not and whether the merit is to be assigned or not however it may be determined whether the special effect is to be assigned and whether the merit is to be assigned or not based on a result of a symbol display in each of the symbol display areas to

When the merit assignment representation or the demerit assignment representation is finished the controller determines a special effect to be assigned to the player character in accordance with a symbol visibly stopped in each of the symbol display areas to and starts an assignment of the special effect to the player character step S 

In the example in case where a merit assignment representation in which for example as shown in three round drops displays of wrapped candies are aligned as stop symbols has been executed for example a special effect to restore the HP and MP of the player character is assigned. Then for example a message such as ALL RESTORED indicating the assigned special representation is displayed above the fever gauge . That is this effect serves as a merit for the player character.

Also in case where a merit assignment representation in which for example three swords such as for example displays of swords are aligned as stop symbols has been executed for example a special effect to cause all attacks by the player character to act as critical hits for example attacks which do heavier damage than normal to an enemy character is assigned. In this case for example a message such as CRITICAL HIT indicating the assigned special effect is displayed above the fever gauge . That is this special effect serves as a merit for the player character.

Also in case where a merit assignment representation in which for example three sets of armor are aligned as stop symbols has been executed a special effect to avoid damage that the player character suffers from the enemy character is assigned. In this case for example a message such as DAMAGE VOIDED which is the obtained effect is displayed above the fever gauge . That is this special effect serves as a merit for the player character.

Also in case where a merit assignment representation in which for example three Luke bags for example bags containing money in the game are aligned as stop symbols has been executed a special effect in which the enemy character leaves money in the game when the player character attacks and hits an enemy character is assigned. In this case for example a message such as MONEY which is the obtained effect is displayed above the fever gauge . That is this special effect serves as a merit for the player character.

Also in case where a demerit assignment representation in which for example three skulls are aligned as stop symbols has been executed a special effect to rapidly reduce the fever gauge is assigned. In this case for example a message such as FEVER GAUGE REDUCED which is the obtained effect is displayed above the fever gauge . That is this special effect serves as a demerit for the player character.

Also in case where a demerit assignment representation in which for example three monsters enemy characters are aligned as stop symbols has been executed a special effect in which a monster an enemy character appears is assigned. In this case for example a message such as MONSTER APPEARS which is the obtained effect is displayed above the fever gauge . That is this special effect serves as a demerit for the player character. In case where a demerit assignment effect in which three predetermined monsters certain enemy characters are aligned has been executed the predetermined monster may appear.

Also in case where for example two predetermined stop symbols are aligned a special effect may be assigned to restore a half of the maximum HP of the player character. In this case for example a message such as HALF HP RESTORED which is the obtained effect is displayed above the fever gauge . That is this special effect serves as a merit for the player character.

When the miss representation is finished the controller moves to step S without assigning any special effects to the player character. For example in case where stop symbols differ from one another the processing proceeds to step S without assigning any special effect to the player character. In case where the stop symbols differ from one another a message such as MISS indicating that no special effect is assigned is displayed above the fever gauge .

The kind of symbol to be visibly stopped in the special effect selection representation may be stochastically determined at random or the kind of symbol may be determined to reflect a process of accumulating fever values. For example the symbols round drops which cause the HP of the player character to be restored may be aligned if the player character has damaged an enemy character with a sword and filled up the fever gauge . Also the symbols causing the MP to be restored may be aligned if the player character has damaged an enemy character using magic and filled up the fever gauge . Also although in the example the special effect selection representation is carried out using the slot representation representing the slot machine. However he special effect selection representation may be carried out using another kind of representation such as a roulette representation representing a roulette game. Also the special effect selection representation may be carried out by the slot representation and the roulette representation simultaneously or consecutively.

Next for example as shown in the controller subtracts the fever accumulative value as time elapses step S No in step S and decolors each gauge in the fever gauge . Then the fever accumulative value is subtracted until it is reduced to the initial value for example 0 . When the fever gauge is emptied as shown in Yes in step S the controller finishes the assignment of the fever state and the special effects step S .

As described heretofore in the embodiment in case where the predetermined selection allowance conditions are fulfilled for example in case where the fever accumulative value accumulated due to damage which the player character has done to the enemy character or due to damage which the player character has suffered from the enemy character reaches the predetermined maximum value the special effect selection representation is executed in which any of predetermined kinds of special effect are selected by a selection and the player character is provided with the special effect selected in the special effect selection representation. Consequently it is possible to prevent a special effect to be assigned to the player character when the predetermined selection allowance conditions are fulfilled from being specified in advance by the player enabling a player s interest in the game to be increased. That is as it is possible not to automatically determine a special effect and a special effect to be assigned is contingently determined it is possible while the special effect selection representation is being executed to strongly attract the player s interest until a special effect to be assigned is determined enabling the player s interest in the game to be increased.

Also in the embodiment when the selection allowance conditions are established it is determined whether or not to assign a special effect to the player character and when it is determined to assign the special effect the special effect selection representation is executed. Consequently it is possible to not always execute the special effect selection representation even when the selection allowance conditions are established enabling a further increase in the enjoyment of the game.

Also in the embodiment when the selection allowance conditions are established it is determined whether or not to assign a special effect to the player character and when it is determined not to assign a special effect the miss representation is executed which notifies that none of the predetermined kinds of special effect is assigned. Consequently it is possible when no special effect is assigned to carry out the miss representation indicating no special effect is to be assigned. That is it is possible to carry out a representation depending on whether or not a special effect is to be assigned enabling a further increase in the player s enjoyment of the game. Particularly by carrying out a miss representation similar to the special effect selection representation as in the embodiment both are slot representation it is possible to cause the player to have hopes enabling a further increase in the player s enjoyment of the game.

Also in the embodiment an action value for example a fever value corresponding to a predetermined action for example an attack relating to the player character is accumulated and the selection allowance conditions are established when the accumulated action value reaches the predetermined value. Consequently it is possible to cause the player to operate the player character with a sense of purpose in accumulating the action value concretely for example attacks made on an enemy character enabling a further increase in the player s enjoyment of the game.

Also in the embodiment the accumulated action value for example the fever accumulative value is temporally subtracted from a time a special effect is assigned to the player character and when a fixed period has passed until the accumulated action value is reduced to the initial value the assignment of the special effect to the player character is finished. Consequently it is possible using the scale of the fever gauge to cause the player to recognize a remaining time for which the special effect continues.

Also in the embodiment after the predetermined selection allowance conditions are established a player s actuation of the predetermined button for example a request for a special effect assignment is awaited before executing the special effect selection representation. Consequently it is possible for the player to specify a time at which to execute the special effect selection representation enabling a further increase in the player s enjoyment of the game. The special effect selection representation may be executed without waiting for a player s actuation of the predetermined button.

Also the special effect shown in the embodiment is an example and other special effects may be assigned such as for example an assignment of an item. In case where a noncontinuing special effect such as the assignment of the item is assigned it is preferable that a measurement for a predetermined period by a subtraction of the fever accumulative value or the like is not carried out and as the special effect is assigned the fever accumulative value is reduced to the initial value and the scale of the fever gauge becomes emptied.

Also although in the embodiment the video game apparatus main body and the display device are separated the video game apparatus body may be equipped with the display device .

Also although in the embodiment a description is given of a game control of the RPG it is needless to say that the invention can be applied to a similar kind of game such as a gun action RPG and moreover the invention can also be applied to other kinds of games.

Also although in the embodiment a description is given of the video game apparatus as an example the invention can be applied to various apparatuses such as a personal computer a cellular phone terminal and a portable game machine as long as an apparatus has an image generation function. In case where the invention is applied to the portable game machine or the like a small sized storage medium such as a semiconductor memory card may be used as the storage medium in place of the CD ROM or the DVD ROM.

Also although in the embodiment game data various data such as a control program used in the game for causing the video game apparatus main body to execute the various processes are stored in the storage medium the game data may be distributed by a server apparatus such as a WWW server. In this case the video game apparatus main body may acquire the game data distributed by the server apparatus via the communication network store them in the HDD load the game data from the HDD into the RAM and use them. Although the game data are used in this embodiment such data may include at least a control program for causing a computer to execute the image generation process in the embodiment.

The present invention can be applied to a video game apparatus a personal computer a cellular phone terminal a portable game machine or the like that causes an image display apparatus to display a player character on a an image display screen and controls progress of a video game by controlling an action of the player character displayed on the display screen in accordance with a player s operation.

Although the invention has been described with reference to several exemplary embodiments it is understood that the words that have been used are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Changes may be made within the purview of the appended claims as presently stated and as amended without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects. Although the invention has been described with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims.

