---

title: Dynamic query and step routing between systems tuned for different objectives
abstract: A virtual regulator monitors and manages a plurality of database systems in a domain. Each of the database systems is tuned for a particular type of workload, and the virtual regulator or multiple virtual regulators running in parallel routes a set of one or more queries to a particular database system within the domain based on a cost function for each database system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08392404&OS=08392404&RS=08392404
owner: Teradata US, Inc.
number: 08392404
owner_city: Dayton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071119
---
U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 730 348 filed Dec. 8 2003 by Douglas P. Brown Anita Richards Bhashyam Ramesh Caroline M. Ballinger and Richard D. Glick and entitled Administering the Workload of a Database System Using Feedback now U.S. Pat. No. 7 395 537 issued Jul. 1 2008 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 786 448 filed Feb. 25 2004 by Douglas P. Brown Bhashyam Ramesh and Anita Richards and entitled Guiding the Development of Workload Group Definition Classifications 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 889 796 filed Jul. 13 2004 by Douglas P. Brown Anita Richards and Bhashyam Ramesh and entitled Administering Workload Groups now U.S. Pat. No. 7 693 847 issued Apr. 6 2010 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 10 915 609 filed Aug. 10 2004 by Douglas P. Brown Anita Richards and Bhashyam Ramesh and entitled Regulating the Workload of a Database System now U.S. Pat. No. 7 657 501 issued Feb. 2 2010 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 468 107 filed Aug. 29 2006 by Douglas P. Brown and Anita Richards and entitled A System and Method for Managing a Plurality of Database Systems which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 715 815 filed Sep. 9 2005 by Douglas P. Brown and Anita Richards and entitled A System and Method for Managing a Plurality of Database Systems now U.S. Publication 2007 0061375 published Mar. 15 2007 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 877 977 filed on Dec. 29 2006 by Douglas P. Brown and Anita Richards and entitled Managing Events in a Computing Environment 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 716 889 filed on Mar. 12 2007 by Douglas P. Brown Anita Richards Mark Morris and Todd A. Walter and entitled Virtual Regulator for Multi Database Systems now U.S. Publication 2008 0162583 published Jul. 3 2008 which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 877 766 60 877 767 60 877 768 and 60 877 823 all of which were filed Dec. 29 2006 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 716 892 filed on Mar. 12 2007 by Douglas P. Brown Scott Gnau and Mark Morris and entitled Parallel Virtual Optimization now U.S. Pat. No. 7 702 676 issued Apr. 20 2010 which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 877 766 60 877 767 60 877 768 and 60 877 823 all of which were filed Dec. 29 2006 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 716 880 filed on Mar. 12 2007 by Mark Morris Anita Richards and Douglas P. Brown and entitled Workload Priority Influenced Data Temperature now U.S. Publication 2008 0162417 published Jul. 3 2008 which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 877 766 60 877 767 60 877 768 and 60 877 823 all of which were filed Dec. 29 2006 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 716 890 filed on Mar. 12 2007 by Mark Morris Anita Richards and Douglas P. Brown and entitled Automated Block Size Management for Database Objects now U.S. Publication 2008 0162418 published Jul. 3 2008 which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 877 766 60 877 767 60 877 768 and 60 877 823 all of which were filed Dec. 29 2006 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 803 248 filed on May 14 2007 by Anita Richards and Douglas P. Brown and entitled State matrix for Workload Management Simplification now U.S. Pat. No. 7 657 508 issued Feb. 2 2010 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 811 496 filed on Jun. 11 2007 by Anita Richards and Douglas P. Brown and entitled Arrival Rate Throttles for Workload Management now U.S. Pat. No. 7 805 436 issued Sep. 28 2010 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 891 919 filed on Aug. 14 2007 by Douglas P. Brown Pekka Kostamaa Mark Morris Bhashyam Ramesh and Anita Richards and entitled Dynamic Query Optimization Between Systems Based on System Conditions now U.S. Publication 2009 0049024 published Feb. 19 2009 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 985 994 filed on Nov. 19 2007 by Douglas P. Brown and Debra A. Galeazzi and entitled Closed Loop System Management Method and Process Capable of Managing Workloads in a Multi System Database now U.S. Publication 2009 0132611 published May 21 2009 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 985 909 filed on Nov. 19 2007 by Douglas P. Brown John Mark Morris and Todd A. Walter and entitled Virtual Data Maintenance now U.S. Publication 2009 0132602 published May 21 2009 

U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 985 911 filed on Nov. 19 2007 by Douglas P. Brown Todd A. Walter Anita Richards and Debra A. Galeazzi and entitled Dynamic Control and Regulation of Critical Database Resources Using a Virtual Memory Table Interface now U.S. Publication 2009 0132536 published May 21 2009 

Modern computing systems execute a variety of requests concurrently and operate in a dynamic environment of cooperative systems each comprising of numerous hardware components subject to failure or degradation. The need to regulate concurrent hardware and software events has led to the development of a field which may be generically termed Workload Management. For the purposes of this application events comprise but are not limited to one or more signals semaphores periods of time hardware software business requirements etc.

Workload management techniques focus on managing or regulating a multitude of individual yet concurrent requests in a computing system by effectively controlling resource usage within the computing system. Resources may include any component of the computing system such as CPU central processing unit usage hard disk or other storage means usage or I O input output usage.

Workload management techniques fall short of implementing a full system regulation as they do not manage unforeseen impacts such as unplanned situations e.g. a request volume surge the exhaustion of shared resources or external conditions like component outages or even planned situations e.g. systems maintenance or data load .

Many different types of system conditions or events can impact negatively the performance of requests currently executing on a computer system. These events can remain undetected for a prolonged period of time causing a compounding negative effect on requests executing during that interval. When problematic events are detected sometimes in an ad hoc and manual fashion the computing system administrator may still not be able to take an appropriate course of action and may either delay corrective action act incorrectly or not act at all.

A typical impact of not managing for system conditions is to deliver inconsistent response times to users. For example often systems execute in an environment of very cyclical usage over the course of any day week or other business cycle. If a user ran a report near standalone on a Wednesday afternoon she may expect that same performance with many concurrent users on a Monday morning. However based on the laws of linear systems performance a request simply cannot deliver the same response time when running stand alone as when it runs competing with high volumes of concurrency.

Therefore while rule based workload management can be effective in a controlled environment without external impacts it fails to respond effectively when those external impacts are present.

In general in one aspect the invention features a computer implemented apparatus for managing a plurality of database systems in a domain. Each database system in the domain is tuned for a particular type of workload. A virtual regulator manages the domain wherein the virtual regulator routes a query and or a set of queries i.e. can be run in parallel or a step or set of parallel steps of a query to a particular database system within the domain based on a cost function for each database system. Further multiple virtual regulators may be run in parallel.

The database systems may each be tuned for different types of workloads from other database systems in the domain . For example one database system may be tuned to optimize a decision support system DSS while another database system is tuned to optimize a tactical query in an active data warehouse ADW . Parameters for tuning the workload may be selected from a group consisting of data block size cylinder read buffers memory for cache disk size and read ahead.

In another aspect the invention features a computer implemented method for managing a plurality of database systems in a domain. Each database system in the domain is tuned for a particular type of workload. A virtual regulator or multiple virtual regulators running in parallel manages the domain wherein the virtual regulator s route a query and or a set of queries i.e. can be run in parallel or a step or set of parallel steps of a query to a particular database system within the domain based on a cost function for each database system.

In yet another aspect the invention features an article of manufacture comprising one or more storage devices tangibly embodying instructions that when executed by one or more computer systems result in the computer systems performing a method for managing a plurality of database systems the method comprising managing each of a plurality of database systems in a domain using a virtual regulator or multiple virtual regulators running in parallel wherein each database system in the domain is tuned for a particular type of workload and the virtual regulator s route a query and or a set of queries i.e. can be run in parallel or a step or set of parallel steps of a query to a particular database system within the domain based on a cost function for each database system.

The event management technique disclosed herein has particular application to large databases that might contain many millions or billions of records managed by a database system DBS such as a Teradata Active Data Warehouse ADW available from NCR Corporation. shows a sample architecture for one node of the DBS . The DBS node includes one or more processing modules connected by a network that manage the storage and retrieval of data in data storage facilities . Each of the processing modules may be one or more physical processors or each may be a virtual processor with one or more virtual processors running on one or more physical processors.

For the case in which one or more virtual processors are running on a single physical processor the single physical processor swaps between the set of N virtual processors. Each virtual processor is generally termed an Access Module Processor AMP in the Teradata Active Data Warehousing System.

For the case in which N virtual processors are running on an M processor node the node s operating system schedules the N virtual processors to run on its set of M physical processors. If there are 4 virtual processors and 4 physical processors then typically each virtual processor would run on its own physical processor. If there are 8 virtual processors and 4 physical processors the operating system would schedule the 8 virtual processors against the 4 physical processors in which case swapping of the virtual processors would occur.

Each of the processing modules manages a portion of a database that is stored in a corresponding one of the data storage facilities . Each of the data storage facilities includes one or more disk drives. The DBS may include multiple nodes in addition to the illustrated node connected by extending the network .

The system stores data in one or more tables in the data storage facilities . The rows of the tables are stored across multiple data storage facilities to ensure that the system workload is distributed evenly across the processing modules . A Parsing Engine PE organizes the storage of data and the distribution of table rows among the processing modules . The PE also coordinates the retrieval of data from the data storage facilities in response to queries received from a user at a mainframe or a client computer . The DBS usually receives queries in a standard format such as SQL.

In one example system the PE is made up of three components a session control a parser and a dispatcher as shown in . The session control provides the logon and logoff function. It accepts a request for authorization to access the database verifies it and then either allows or disallows the access.

Once the session control allows a session to begin a user may submit a SQL request that is routed to the parser . As illustrated in the parser interprets the SQL request block checks it for proper SQL syntax block evaluates it semantically block and consults a data dictionary to ensure that all of the objects specified in the SQL request actually exist and that the user has the authority to perform the request block . Finally the parser runs an optimizer block that develops the least expensive plan to perform the request.

The DBS described herein accepts performance goals for each workload as inputs and dynamically adjusts its own performance such as by allocating DBS resources and throttling back incoming work. In one example system the performance parameters are called priority scheduler parameters. When the priority scheduler is adjusted weights assigned to resource partitions and allocation groups are changed. Adjusting how these weights are assigned modifies the way access to the CPU disk and memory is allocated among requests. Given performance objectives for each workload and the fact that the workloads may interfere with each other s performance through competition for shared resources the DBS may find a performance setting that achieves one workload s goal but makes it difficult to achieve another workload s goal.

The performance goals for each workload will vary widely as well and may or may not be related to their resource demands. For example two workloads that execute the same application and DBS code could have differing performance goals simply because they were submitted from different departments in an organization. Conversely even though two workloads have similar performance objectives they may have very different resource demands.

The system includes a closed loop workload management architecture capable of satisfying a set of workload specific goals. In other words the system is a goal oriented workload management system capable of supporting complex workloads and capable of self adjusting to various types of workloads. In Teradata the workload management system is generally referred to as Teradata Active System Management TASM .

The system s operation has four major phases 1 assigning a set of incoming request characteristics to workload groups assigning the workload groups to priority classes and assigning goals called Service Level Goals or SLGS to the workload groups 2 monitoring the execution of the workload groups against their goals 3 regulating adjusting and managing the workload flow and priorities to achieve the SLGs and 4 correlating the results of the workload and taking action to improve performance. The performance improvement can be accomplished in several ways 1 through performance tuning recommendations such as the creation or change in index definitions or other supplements to table data or to recollect statistics or other performance tuning actions 2 through capacity planning recommendations for example increasing system power 3 through utilization of results to enable optimizer self learning and 4 through recommending adjustments to SLGs of one workload to better complement the SLGs of another workload that it might be impacting. All recommendations can either be enacted automatically or after consultation with the database administrator DBA .

1 Administrator block This component provides a GUI to define workloads and their SLGs and other workload management requirements. The administrator accesses data in logs associated with the system including a query log and receives capacity planning and performance tuning inputs as discussed above. The administrator is a primary interface for the DBA. The administrator also establishes workload rules which are accessed and used by other elements of the system.

2 Monitor block This component provides a top level dashboard view and the ability to drill down to various details of workload group performance such as aggregate execution time execution time by request aggregate resource consumption resource consumption by request etc. Such data is stored in the query log and other logs available to the monitor. The monitor also includes processes that initiate the performance improvement mechanisms listed above and processes that provide long term trend reporting which may include providing performance improvement recommendations. Some of the monitor functionality may be performed by the regulator which is described in the next paragraph.

3 Regulator block This component dynamically adjusts system settings and or projects performance issues and either alerts the DBA or user to take action for example by communication through the monitor which is capable of providing alerts or through the exception log providing a way for applications and their users to become aware of and take action on regulator actions. Alternatively the regulator can automatically take action by deferring requests or executing requests with the appropriate priority to yield the best solution given requirements defined by the administrator block .

The workload management administrator block or administrator is responsible for determining i.e. recommending the appropriate application settings based on SLGs. Such activities as setting weights managing active work tasks and changes to any and all options will be automatic and taken out of the hands of the DBA. The user will be masked from all complexity involved in setting up the priority scheduler and be freed to address the business issues around it.

As shown in the workload management administrator block allows the DBA to establish workload rules including SLGs which are stored in a storage facility accessible to the other components of the system. The DBA has access to a query log which stores the steps performed by the DBS in executing a request along with database statistics associated with the various steps and an exception log queue which contains records of the system s deviations from the SLGs established by the administrator. With these resources the DBA can examine past performance and establish SLGs that are reasonable in light of the available system resources. In addition the system provides a guide for creation of workload rules which guides the DBA in establishing the workload rules . The guide accesses the query log and the exception log queue in providing its guidance to the DBA.

The administrator assists the DBA in a Establishing rules for dividing requests into candidate workload groups and creating workload group definitions. Requests with similar characteristics users application table resource requirement etc are assigned to the same workload group. The system supports the possibility of having more than one workload group with similar system response requirements. b Refining the workload group definitions and defining SLGs for each workload group. The system provides guidance to the DBA for response time and or arrival rate threshold setting by summarizing response time and arrival rate history per workload group definition versus resource utilization levels which it extracts from the query log from data stored by the regulator as described below allowing the DBA to know the current response time and arrival rate patterns. The DBA can then cross compare those patterns to satisfaction levels or business requirements if known to derive an appropriate response time and arrival rate threshold setting i.e. an appropriate SLG. After the administrator specifies the SLGs the system automatically generates the appropriate resource allocation settings as described below. These SLG requirements are distributed to the rest of the system as workload rules. c Optionally establishing priority classes and assigning workload groups to the classes. Workload groups with similar performance requirements are assigned to the same class. d Providing proactive feedback i.e. validation to the DBA regarding the workload groups and their SLG assignments prior to execution to better assure that the current assignments can be met i.e. that the SLG assignments as defined and potentially modified by the DBA represent realistic goals. The DBA has the option to refine workload group definitions and SLG assignments as a result of that feedback.

The internal monitoring and regulating component regulator illustrated in more detail in accomplishes its objective by dynamically monitoring the workload characteristics defined by the administrator using workload rules or other heuristics based on past and current performance of the system that guide two feedback mechanisms. It does this before the request begins execution and at periodic intervals during query execution. Prior to query execution an incoming request is examined to determine in which workload group it belongs based on criteria as described in more detail below. Concurrency or arrival rate levels i.e. the numbers of concurrent executing queries from each workload group are monitored or the rate at which they have been arriving and if current workload group levels are above an administrator defined threshold a request in that workload group waits in a queue prior to execution until the level subsides below the defined threshold. Query execution requests currently being executed are monitored to determine if they still meet the criteria of belonging in a particular workload group by comparing request execution characteristics to a set of exception conditions. If the result suggests that a request violates the rules associated with a workload group an action is taken to move the request to another workload group or to abort it and or alert on or log the situation with potential follow up actions as a result of detecting the situation. Current response times and throughput of each workload group are also monitored dynamically to determine if they are meeting SLGs. A resource weight allocation for each performance group can be automatically adjusted to better enable meeting SLGs using another set of heuristics described with respect to .

As shown in the regulator receives one or more requests each of which is assigned by an assignment process block to a workload group and optionally a priority class in accordance with the workload rules . The assigned requests are passed to a workload query delay manager which is described in more detail with respect to . The regulator includes an exception monitor for detecting workload exceptions which are recorded in a log .

In general the workload query delay manager monitors the workload performance from the exception monitor as compared to the workload rules and either allows the request to be executed immediately or places it in a queue for later execution as described below when predetermined conditions are met.

If the request is to be executed immediately the workload query delay manager places the requests in buckets corresponding to the priority classes to which the requests were assigned by the administrator . A request processor function performed under control of a priority scheduler facility PSF selects queries from the priority class buckets in an order determined by the priority associated with each of the buckets and executes it as represented by the processing block on .

The PSF also monitors the request processing and reports throughput information for example for each request and for each workgroup to the exception monitor . Also included is a system condition monitor which is provided to detect system conditions such as node failures. The exception monitor and system monitor collectively define an exception attribute monitor .

The exception monitor compares the throughput with the workload rules and stores any exceptions e.g. throughput deviations from the workload rules in the exception log queue . In addition the exception monitor provides system resource allocation adjustments to the PSF which adjusts system resource allocation accordingly e.g. by adjusting the priority scheduler weights. Further the exception monitor provides data regarding the workgroup performance against workload rules to the workload query delay manager which uses the data to determine whether to delay incoming requests depending on the workload group to which the request is assigned.

As can be seen in the system provides two feedback loops. The first feedback loop includes the PSF and the exception monitor . In this first feedback loop the system monitors on a short term basis the execution of requests to detect deviations greater than a short term threshold from the defined service level for the workload group to which the requests were defined. If such deviations are detected the DBS is adjusted e.g. by adjusting the assignment of system resources to workload groups.

The second feedback loop includes the workload query delay manager the PSF and the exception monitor . In this second feedback loop the system monitors on a long term basis to detect deviations from the expected level of service greater than a long term threshold. If it does the system adjusts the execution of requests e.g. by delaying swapping out or aborting requests to better provide the expected level of service. Note that swapping out requests is one form of memory control in the sense that before a request is swapped out it consumes memory and after it is swapped out it does not. While this is the preferable form of memory control other forms in which the amount of memory dedicated to an executing request can be adjusted as part of the feedback loop are also possible.

The workload query delay manager shown in greater detail in receives an assigned request as an input. A comparator determines if the request should be queued or released for execution. It does this by determining the workload group assignment for the request and comparing that workload group s performance against the workload rules provided by the exception monitor . For example the comparator may examine the concurrency level of requests being executed under the workload group to which the request is assigned. Further the comparator may compare the workload group s performance against other workload rules.

If the comparator determines that the request should not be executed it places the request in a queue along with any other requests for which execution has been delayed. The comparator continues to monitor the workgroup s performance against the workload rules and when it reaches an acceptable level it extracts the request from the queue and releases the request for execution. In some cases it is not necessary for the request to be stored in the queue to wait for workgroup performance to reach a particular level in which case it is released immediately for execution.

Once a request is released for execution it is dispatched block to priority class buckets where it will await retrieval and processing by one of a series of AMP Worker Tasks AWTs . An AWT is a thread task that runs inside of each virtual AMP. An AWT is generally utilized to process requests queries from users but may also be triggered or used by internal database software routines such as deadlock detection.

The exception monitor receives throughput information from the AWT . A workload performance to workload rules comparator compares the received throughput information to the workload rules and logs any deviations that it finds in the exception log queue . It also generates the workload performance against workload rules information that is provided to the workload query delay manager .

Pre allocated AWTs are assigned to each AMP and work on a queue system. That is each AWT waits for work to arrive performs the work and then returns to the queue and waits for more work. Due to their stateless condition AWTs respond quickly to a variety of database execution needs. At the same time AWTs serve to limit the number of active processes performing database work within each AMP at any point in time. In other words AWTs play the role of both expeditor and governor of requests queries.

AMP worker tasks are one of several resources that support the parallel performance architecture within the Teradata database. AMP worker tasks are of a finite number with a limited number available to perform new work on the system. This finite number is an orchestrated part of the internal work flow management in Teradata. Reserving a special set of reserve pools for single and few AMP queries may be beneficial for active data warehouse applications but only after establishing a need exists. Understanding and appreciating the role of AMP worker tasks both in their availability and their scarcity leads to the need for a more pro active management of AWTs and their usage.

AMP worker tasks are execution threads that do the work of executing a query step once the step is dispatched to the AMP. They also pick up the work of spawned processes and of internal tasks such as error logging or aborts. Not being tied to a particular session or transaction AMP worker tasks are anonymous and immediately reusable and are able to take advantage of any of the CPUs. Both AMPs and AWTs have equal access to any CPU on the node. A fixed number of AWTs are pre allocated at startup for each AMP in the configuration with the default number being 80. All of the allocated AWTs can be active at the same time sharing the CPUs and memory on the node.

When a query step is sent to an AMP that step acquires a worker task from the pool of available AWTs. All of the information and context needed to perform the database work is contained within the query step. Once the step is complete the AWT is returned to the pool. If all AMP worker tasks are busy at the time the message containing the new step arrives then the message will wait in a queue until an AWT is free. Position in the queue is based first on work type and secondarily on priority which is carried within the message header. Priority is based on the relative weight that is established for the PSF allocation group that controls the query step. Too much work can flood the best of databases. Consequently all database systems have built in mechanisms to monitor and manage the flow of work in a system. In a parallel database flow control becomes even more pressing as balance is only sustained when all parallel units are getting their fair portion of resources.

The Teradata database is able to operate near the resource limits without exhausting any of them by applying control over the flow of work at the lowest possible level in the system. Each AMP monitors its own utilization of critical resources AMP worker tasks being one. If no AWTs are available it places the incoming messages on a queue. If messages waiting in the queue for an AWT reach a threshold value further message delivery is throttled for that AMP allowing work already underway to complete. Other AMPs continue to work as usual.

One technique that has proven highly effective in helping Teradata to weather extremely heavy workloads is having a reasonable limit on the number of active tasks on each AMP. The theory behind setting a limit on AWTs is twofold 1 that it is better for overall throughput to put the brakes on before exhaustion of all resources is reached and 2 keeping all AMPs to a reasonable usage level increases parallel efficiency. However this is not a reasonable approach in a dynamic environment.

Ideally the minimum number of AWTs that can fully utilize the available CPU and I O are employed. After full use of resources has been attained adding AWTs will only increase the effort of sharing. As standard queuing theory teaches when a system has not reached saturation newly arriving work can get in use its portion of the resources and get out efficiently. However when resources are saturated all newly arriving work experiences delays equal to the time it takes someone else to finish their work. In the Teradata database the impact of any delay due to saturation of resources may be aggravated in cases where a query has multiple steps because there will be multiple places where a delay could be experienced.

In one particular implementation of the Teradata database 80 eighty is selected as the maximum number of AWTs to provide the best balance between AWT overhead and contention and CPU and I O usage. Historically 80 has worked well as a number that makes available a reasonable number of AWTs for all the different work types and yet supports up to 40 or 50 new tasks per AMP comfortably. However managing AWTs is not always a solution to increased demands on the DBS . In some cases an increased demand on system resources may have an underlying cause such that simply increasing the number of available AWTs may only serve to temporarily mask or even worsen the demand on resources.

For example one of the manifestations of resource exhaustion is a lengthening queue for processes waiting for AWTs. Therefore performance may degrade coincident with a shortage of AWTs. However this may not be directly attributable to the number of AWTs defined. In this case adding AWTs will tend to aggravate not reduce performance issues.

Using all 80 AWTs in an on going fashion is a symptom that resource usage is being sustained at a very demanding level. It is one of several signs that the platform may be running out of capacity. Adding AWTs may be treating the effect but not helping to identify the cause of the performance problem. On the other hand many Teradata database systems will reach 100 CPU utilization with significantly less than 50 active processes of the new work type. Some sites experience their peak throughput when 40 AWTs are in use servicing new work. By the time many systems are approaching the limit of 80 AWTs they are already at maximum levels of CPU or I O usage.

In the case where the number of AWTs is reaching their limit it is likely that a lack of AWTs is merely a symptom of a deeper underlying problem or bottleneck. Therefore it is necessary to carry out a more thorough investigation of all events in the DBS in an attempt to find the true source of any slowdowns. For example the underlying or real reason for an increase in CPU usage or an increase in the number of AWTs may be a hardware failure or an arrival rate surge.

Another issue that can impact system wide performance is a workload event such as the beginning or conclusion of a load or another maintenance job that can introduce locks or other delays into the DBS or simply trigger the need to change the workload management scheme for the duration of the workload event. The DBS provides a scheduled environment that manages priorities and other workload management controls in operating windows that trigger at certain times of the day week and or month or upon receipt of a workload event.

To manage workloads among these dynamic system wide situations it is important to firstly classify the types of various system events that can occur in a DBS in order to better understand the underlying causes of inadequate performance. As shown in a plurality of conditions and events are monitored block and then identified block so that they can be classified into at least two 2 general categories 

System Conditions can include a system availability condition such as a hardware component failure or recovery or any other condition monitored by a TASM monitored queue. This may include a wide range of hardware conditions from the physical degradation of hardware e.g. the identification of bad sectors on a hard disk to the inclusion of new hardware e.g. hot swapping of CPUs storage media addition of I O or network capabilities etc . It can also include conditions external to the DBS as relayed to the DBS from the enterprise such as an application server being down or a dual redundant system operating in degraded mode.

System Conditions can also include a system performance condition such as sustained resource usage resource depletion resource skew or missed Service Level Goals SLGs .

An example of a system performance condition is the triggering of an action in response to an ongoing use or non use of a system resource. For example if there is low sustained CPU and IO for some qualifying time then a schedule background task may be allowed to run. This can be achieved by lifting throttle limits raising priority weights and or other means. Correspondingly if the system returns to a high sustained use of the CPU and IO then the background task is reduced e.g. terminated priority weights lowered throttle limits lowered etc .

Another example of a system performance condition is where a condition is detected due to an increase in the time taken to process a given individual request or workload group. For example if the average response time is greater than the SLG for a given time interval then there may be an underlying system performance condition.

The second type of detection is an Operating Environment Event . Such events can be predetermined or scheduled in that a user or administrator of the system predefines the event at some point during the operation of the DBS . However in some instances Operating Environment Events can occur without any appreciable notice being given to the DBS or to users. The event may be time based business event based or based on any other suitable criteria.

Operating Environment Events can also be defined and associated with the beginning and completion of a particular application job. A user defined event can be sent by the application and received by the DBS . This triggers the regulator of the DBS to operate in the ruleset s working values associated with this event. For example the working values could direct the DBS to give higher priority to workloads associated with month end processing or lower priority associated with workloads doing regular work to enable throttles for non critical work and enable filters on workloads that interfere with month end processing reporting consistency such as might happen when data is being updated while it is being reported on.

In another example a user may define actions associated with the start of a daily load against a table X. This request triggers a phased set of actions 

Another example is to allow the user to define and automate ruleset working value changes based on a user event rather than resource or time changes . For example users may want resource allocation to change based on a business calendar that treats weekends and holidays differently from weekdays and normal processing differently from quarterly or month end processing.

As these events are generally driven by business or user considerations and not necessarily by hardware or software considerations they are difficult to predict in advance.

Thus upon detection of any of System Conditions or Operating Environments Events one or more actions can be triggered. In this regard Block determines whether the detected System Conditions or Operating Environments Events are resolvable.

The action taken in response to the detection of a particular condition or event will vary depending on the type of condition or event detected. The automated action will fall into one of four broad categories as shown in 

Turning to the first possible automated action the system may notify either a person or another software application component including users the DBA or a reporting application. Notification can be through one or more notification approaches 

Notification through a TASM event queue monitored by some other application for example tell users to expect slow response times 

Notification including diagnostic drill down through automation execution of a program or a stored procedure.

Notification may be preferable where the system has no immediate way in which to ameliorate or rectify the condition or where a user s expectation needs to be managed.

Operating Environment Events and System Condition combinations are logical expressions of states. The simplest combinations are comprised of just one state. More complex combinations can be defined that combine multiple states with two or more levels of logical operators for example given four individual states e1 through e4 

Combinations cause one more actions when the logical expressions are evaluated to be true. The following table outlines the kinds of actions that are supported.

As shown in the DBS has a number of rules in aggregation termed a ruleset which define the way in which the DBS operates. The rules include a name block attributes block which describes what the rules do e.g. session limit on user Jane and working values WVs block which are flags or values that indicate whether the rule is active or not and the particular setting of the value. A set of all WVs for all the rules contained in a Ruleset is called a Working Value Set WVS . 

A number of states can be defined each state being associated with a particular WVS i.e. a particular instance of a rule set . By swapping states the working values of the workload management ruleset are changed.

This process is best illustrated by a simple example. At there is shown a particular WVS which in the example is associated with the State X. State X in the example is a state that is invoked when the database is at almost peak capacity. Peak capacity in the present example is determined by detecting one of two events namely that the arrival rate of jobs is greater than 50 per minute or alternatively that there is a sustained CPU usage of over 95 for 600 seconds. State X is designed to prevent resources being channeled to less urgent work. In State X Filter A block which denies access to table Zoo which contains cold data and is therefore not required for urgent work is enabled. Furthermore Throttle M block which limits the number of sessions to user Jane a user who works in the marketing department and therefore does not normally have urgent requests is also enabled. State X is therefore skewed towards limiting the interaction that user Jane has with the DBS and is also skewed towards limiting access to table Zoo so that the DBS can allocate resources to urgent tasks in preference to non urgent tasks.

A second State Y not shown may also be created. In State Y the corresponding rule set disables filter A and increases Jane s session limit to 6 concurrent sessions. Therefore State Y may only be invoked when resource usage falls below a predetermined level. Each state is predetermined i.e. defined beforehand by a DBA. Therefore each ruleset working value set and state requires some input from a user or administrator that has some knowledge of the usage patterns of the DBS knowledge of the data contained in the database and perhaps even knowledge of the users. Knowledge of workloads their importance their characteristic is most likely required more so than the same understanding of individual rules. Of course as a user defines workloads most of that has already come to light i.e. what users and requests are in a workload how important or critical is the workload etc. A third action type is to resolve the issue internally. Resolution by the DBS is in some cases a better approach to resolving issues as it does not require any input from a DBA or a user to define rules based actions.

Resolution is achieved by implementing a set of internal rules which are activated on the basis of the event detected and the enforcement priority of the request along with other information gathered through the exception monitoring process.

Some examples of automated action which result in the automatic resolution of issues are given below. This list is not exhaustive and is merely illustrative of some types of resolution.

For the purposes of this example it is assumed that the event that is detected is a longer than average response time i.e. an exception monitor detects that the response time SLG is continually exceed for a given time and percentage . The first step in launching an automated action is to determine whether an underlying cause can be identified.

For example is the AWT pool the cause of the longer than average response time This is determined by seeing how many AWTs are being used. If the number of idle or AWTs is very low the AWT pool is automatically increased to the maximum allowed normally 80 in a typical Teradata system .

The SLG is then monitored to determine whether the issue has been ameliorated. When the SLG is satisfactory for a qualifying time the AWT poolsize is progressively decreased until a suitable workable value is found.

However the AWT pool may not be the cause of the event. Through the measuring of various system performance indicators it may be found that the Arrival Rate is the cause of decreased performance. Therefore rather than limiting on concurrency the DBS can use this information to take the action of limiting the arrival rate i.e. throttle back the arrival rate to a defined level rather than allowing queries to arrive at unlimited rates . This provides an added ability to control the volume of work accepted per WD.

Alternatively there may be some WDs at same or lower enforcement exceeding their anticipated arrival rates by some qualifying time and amount. This is determined by reviewing the anticipated arrival rate as defined by the SLG.

If there are WDs at the same or lower enforcement exceeding their anticipated arrival rates the WD s concurrency level is decreased to a minimum lower limit.

The SLG is then monitored and when the SLG returns to a satisfactory level for a qualifying time the concurrency level is increased to a defined normal level or eliminated if no concurrency level was defined originally .

If the event cannot be easily identified or categorized by the DBS then the event is simply logged as a un resolvable problem. This provides information which can be studied at a later date by a user and or DBA with a view to identifying new and systemic problems previously unknown.

The embodiment described herein through a mixture of detection and management techniques seeks to correctly manage users expectations and concurrently smooth the peaks and valleys of usage. Simply being aware of the current or projected usage of the DBS may be a viable solution to smoothing peaks and valleys of usage. For example if a user knows that he needs to run a particular report sometime today he may avoid a high usage and slow response time in the morning in favor of a lower usage time in the afternoon. Moreover if the work cannot be delayed insight into DBS usage can at the very least help set reasonable expectations.

Moreover the predetermined response to events through the invocation of different states i.e. changes in the ruleset s working values can also assist in smoothing peaks and valleys of usage. The embodiment described herein additionally seeks to manage automatically to better meet SLGs in light of extenuating circumstances such as hardware failures enterprise issues and business conditions.

However automated workload management needs to act differently depending on what states are active on the system at any given time. Each unique combination of conditions and events could constitute a unique state with unique automated actions. Given a myriad of possible condition and event types and associated values a combinatorial explosion of possible states can exist making rule based automated workload management a very daunting and error prone task. For example given just 15 different condition and event types that get monitored each with a simple on or off value there can be as many as 2 32 768 possible combinations of states. This number only increases as the number of unique condition and event types or the possible values of each monitored condition or event type increases.

A DBA managing the rules based management system after identifying each of these many states must also to designate a unique action for each state. The DBA would further need to associate priority to each state such that if more than one state were active at a given time the automated workload management scheme would know which action takes precedence if the actions conflict. In general the DBA would find these tasks overwhelming or even impossible as it is extremely difficult to manage such an environment.

To solve this problem associated with automated workload management or any rule driven system in general the present invention introduces an n dimensional matrix to tame the combinatorial explosion of states and to provide a simpler perspective to the rules based environment. Choosing two or more well known key dimensions provides a perspective that guides the DBA to know whether or not he has identified all the important combinations and minimizes the number of unique actions required when various combinations occur. Given that n

In one embodiment for example as shown in a two dimensional state matrix may be used wherein the first dimension represents the System Condition SysCon and the second dimension represents the Operating Environment Events OpEnv . As noted above System Conditions represent the condition or health of the system e.g. degraded to the red system condition because a node is down while Operating Environment Events represent the kind of work that the system is being expected to perform e.g. within an Interactive or Batch operational environment wherein Interactive takes precedence over Batch.

Each element of the state matrix is a pair that references a workload management state which in turn invokes a single WVS instance of the workload management ruleset. Multiple matrix elements may reference a common state and thus invoke the same WVS instance of the workload management ruleset. However only one state is in effect at any given time based on the matrix element referenced by the highest SysCon severity and the highest OpEnv precedence in effect. On the other hand a System Condition Operating Environment Event or state can change as specified by directives defined by the DBA. One of the main benefits of the state matrix is that the DBA does not specify a state change directly but must do so indirectly through directives that change the SysCon or OpEnv.

When a particular condition or event combination is evaluated to be true it is mapped to one of the elements of one of the dimensions of the matrix . For example given the condition if AMP Worker Tasks available is less than 3 and Workload X s Concurrency is greater than 100 is true it may map to the System Condition of RED. In another example an event of Monday through Friday between 7 AM and 6 PM when true would map to the Operating Environment Event of OPERATIONAL QUERIES.

The combination of per the corresponding matrix element maps to a specific workload management state which in turn invokes the WVS instance of the workload management ruleset named WVS . Unspecified combinations would map to a default System Condition and a default Operating Environment.

Further a state identified in one element of the matrix can be repeated in another element of the matrix . For example in WVS is the chosen workload management rule when the pair is any of or .

The effect of all this is that the matrix manages all possible states. In the example of event combinations comprise 2 4096 possible states. However the 2 dimensional matrix of with 3 System Conditions and 4 Operating Environment Events yields at the most 4 3 12 states although less than 12 states may be used because of the ability to share states among different pairs in the matrix .

In addition to managing the number of states the matrix facilitates conflict resolution through prioritization of its dimensions such that the system conditions positions and operating environment events positions within the matrix indicate their precedence.

Suppose that more than one condition or event combination were true at any given time. Without the state matrix a list of 4096 possible states would need to be prioritized by the DBA to determine which workload management rules should be implemented which would be a daunting task. The matrix greatly diminishes this challenge through the prioritization of each dimension.

For example the values of the System Condition dimension are Green Yellow and Red wherein Yellow is more severe or has higher precedence over Green and Red is more severe or has higher precedence over Yellow as well as Green. If two condition and event combinations were to evaluate as true at the same time one thereby mapping to Yellow and the other mapping to Red the condition and event combination associated with Red would have precedence over the condition and event combination associated with Yellow.

Consider the following examples. In a first example there may be a conflict resolution in the System Condition dimension between Red which has precedence e.g. is more severe over Yellow. If a node is down migrated then a Red System Condition exists. If a dual system is down then a Yellow System Condition exists. If a node is down migrated and a dual system is down then the Red System Condition has precedence.

In a second example there may be a conflict resolution in the Operating Environment Event dimension between a Daily Loads event which has precedence over Operational Queries events. At 8 AM the Operating Environment Event may trigger the Operational Queries event. However if loads are running then the Operating Environment Event may also trigger the Daily Loads event. If it is 8 AM and the loads are still running then the Daily Loads Operating Environment Event takes precedence.

Once detected it is the general case that a condition or event status is remembered persists until the status is changed or reset. However conditions or events may have expiration times such as for user defined conditions and events for situations where the status fails to reset once the condition or event changes. Moreover conditions or events may have qualification times that require the state be sustained for some period of time to avoid thrashing situations. Finally conditions or events may have minimum and maximum duration times to avoid frequent or infrequent state changes.

In summary the state matrix of the present invention has a number of advantages. The state matrix introduces simplicity for the vast majority of user scenarios by preventing an explosion in state handing through a simple understandable n dimensional matrix. To maintain this simplicity best practices will guide the system operator to fewer rather than many SysCon and OpEnv values. It also maintains master control of WVS on the system but can also support very complex scenarios. In addition the state matrix can alternatively support an external enterprise master through user defined functions and notifications. Finally the state matrix is intended to provide extra dimensions of system management using WD level rules with a dynamic regulator.

A key point of the matrix is that by limiting actions to only change SysCon or OpEnv and not states or individual rules or rules WVS master control is contained in a single place and avoids having too many entities asserting control. For example without this a user might change the individual weight of one workload to give it highest priority without understanding the impact this has on other workloads. Another user might change the priority of another workload to be even higher such that they overwrite the intentions of the first user. Then the DBS internally might have done yet different things. By funneling all actions to be associated with a SysCon or OpEnv instead of directed to individual rules in the ruleset or directly to a state as a whole the present invention avoids what could be chaos in the various events. Consequently in the present invention the WVS s are changed as a whole since some settings must really be made in light of all workloads not a single workload or other rule and by changing just SysCon or OpEnv in combination with precedence conflict resolution is maintained at the matrix .

The state matrix may be used by a single regulator controlling a single DBS or a plurality of state matrices may be used by a plurality of regulators controlling a plurality of DBS . Moreover a single state matrix may be used with a plurality of regulators controlling a plurality of DBS wherein the single state matrix is a domain level state matrix used by a domain level virtual regulator.

Managing system resources on the basis of individual systems and requests does not in general satisfactorily manage complex workloads and SLGs across a domain in a multi system environment. To automatically achieve workload goals in a multi system environment performance goals must first be defined administered then managed regulated and finally monitored across the entire domain set of systems participating in an n system environment .

Regulators are used to manage workloads on an individual DBS basis. A virtual regulator comprises a modified regulator implemented to enhance the closed loop system management CLSM architecture in a domain . That is by extending the functionality of the regulator components complex workloads are manageable across a domain .

The function of the virtual regulator is to control and manage workloads across all DBS in a domain . The functionality of the virtual regulator extends the existing goal oriented workload management infrastructure which is capable of managing various types of workloads encountered during processing.

In one embodiment the virtual regulator includes a thin version of a DBS where the thin DBS is a DBS executing in an emulation mode such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 738 756 7 155 428 6 801 903 and 7 089 258 all of which are incorporated by reference herein. A query optimizer function of the thin DBS allows the virtual regulator to classify received queries into who what where classification criteria and allows a workload query manager of the thin DBS to perform the actual routing of the queries among multiple DBS in the domain . In addition the use of the thin DBS in the virtual regulator provides a scalable architecture open application programming interfaces APIs external stored procedures XSPs user defined functions UDFs message queuing logging capabilities rules engines etc.

The virtual regulator also includes a set of open APIs known as Traffic Cop APIs that provide the virtual regulator with the ability to monitor DBS states to obtain DBS status and conditions to activate inactive DBS to deactivate active DBS to set workload groups to delay queries i.e. to control or throttle throughput to reject queries i.e. to filter queries to summarize data and statistics to create DBQL log entries run a program stored procedures external stored procedures UDFs etc. to send messages to queue tables Push Pop Queues and to create dynamic operating rules. The Traffic Cop APIs are also made available to all of the regulators for each DBS thereby allowing the regulators for each DBS and the virtual regulator for the domain to communicate this information between themselves.

Specifically the virtual regulator performs the following functions a Regulate adjust system conditions resources settings PSF weights etc. against workload expectations SLGs across the domain and to direct query traffic to any of the DBS via a set of predefined rules. b Monitor and manage system conditions across the domain including adjusting or regulating response time requirements by DBS as well as using the Traffic Cop APIs to handle filter throttle and or dynamic allocation of resource weights within DBS and partitions so as to meet SLGs across the domain . c Raise an alert to a DBA for manual handling e.g. defer or execute query recommendation etc. d Cross compare workload response time histories via a query log with workload SLGs across the domain to determine if query gating i.e. flow control through altered Traffic Cop API settings presents feasible opportunities for the workload. e Manage and monitor the regulators across the domain using the Traffic Cop APIs so as to avoid missing SLGs on currently executing workloads or to allow workloads to execute the queries while missing SLGs by some predefined or proportional percentage based on shortage of resources i.e. based on predefined rules . f Route queries traffic to one or more available DBS .

Although depicts an implementation using a single virtual regulator for the entire domain in some exemplary environments one or more backup virtual regulators are also provided for circumstances where the primary virtual regulator malfunctions or is otherwise unavailable. Such backup virtual regulators may be active at all times or may remain dormant until needed.

In some embodiments each regulator communicates its system conditions and operating environment events directly to the virtual regulator . The virtual regulator compiles the information adds domain or additional system level information to the extent there is any and makes its adjustments based on the resulting set of information.

In other embodiments each regulator may have superordinate and or subordinate regulators . In such embodiments each regulator gathers information related to its own system conditions and operating environment events as well as that of its children regulators and reports the aggregated information to its parent regulator or the virtual regulator at the highest level of the domain .

When the virtual regulator compiles its information with that which is reported by all of the regulators it will have complete information for domain . The virtual regulator analyzes the aggregated information to apply rules and make adjustments.

The virtual regulator receives information concerning the states events and conditions from the regulators and compares these states events and conditions to the SLGs. In response the virtual regulator adjusts the operational characteristics of the various DBS through the set of Traffic Cop Open APIs to better address the states events and conditions of the DBS throughout the domain .

Generally speaking regulators provide real time closed loop system management over resources within the DBS with the loop having a fairly narrow bandwidth typically on the order of milliseconds seconds or minutes. The virtual regulator on the other hand provides real time closed loop system management over resources within the domain with the loop having a much larger bandwidth typically on the order of minutes hours or days.

Further while the regulators control resources within the DBS s and the virtual regulator controls resources across the domain in many cases DBS resources and domain resources are the same. The virtual regulator has a higher level view of resources within the domain because it is aware of the state of resources of all DBS while each regulator is generally only aware of the state of resources within its own DBS .

There are a number of techniques by which virtual regulator implements its adjustments to the allocation of system resources. For example and as illustrated in the virtual regulator communicates adjustments directly to the regulators for each DBS and the regulators for each DBS then apply the relevant rule adjustments. Alternatively the virtual regulator communicates adjustments to the regulators for each DBS which then passes them on to other e.g. subordinate regulators in other DBS . In either case the regulators in each DBS incorporate adjustments communicated by the virtual regulator .

Given that the virtual regulator has access to the state event and condition information from all DBS it can make adjustments that are mindful of meeting SLGs for various workload groups. It is capable of for example adjusting the resources allocated to a particular workload group on a domain basis to make sure that the SLGs for that workload group are met. It is further able to identify bottlenecks in performance and allocate resources to alleviate the bottlenecks. Also it selectively deprives resources from a workload group that is idling resources. In general the virtual regulator provides a domain view of workload administration while the regulators in each DBS provide a system view of workload administration.

The present invention also provides for dynamic query optimization between DBS in the domain based on system conditions and operating environment events. In the domain the DBS to which a query will be routed can be chosen by the virtual regulator in a single DBS there is no choice and the associated regulator for that DBS routes only within that DBS .

This element of choice can be leveraged to make intelligent decisions regarding query routing that are based on the dynamic state of the constituent DBS within the domain . Routing can be based any system conditions or operating environment events that are viewed as pertinent to workload management and query routing. This solution thus leverages and provides a runtime resource sensitive and data driven optimization of query execution.

Routing can be based on combinations of the system conditions and operating environment events described above. As noted in the state matrix associated with each condition event or combination of conditions and events can be a WVS instance of a workload management ruleset. Some of the possible rules are 

Thus the present invention adds to the value proposition of a multi system environment by leveraging query routing choices and making intelligent choices of query routing based on system conditions and operating environment events.

The present invention also provides for dynamic query and step routing between systems tuned for different objectives. Consider that a data warehouse system may be tuned to perform well on a particular workload but that same tuning may not be optimal for another workload. In a single system tuning choices must be made that trade off the performance of multiple workloads. Example workloads would include batch loading high volume SQL oriented inserts updates decision support and tactical queries.

The present invention also provides a solution that allows a domain to be tuned for multiple objectives with few or lesser trade offs. Specifically the present invention enables tuning of each constituent system DBS within a domain differently and routes a query and or a set of queries i.e. can be run in parallel or a step or set of parallel steps of one or more queries to systems based on cost estimates of the more efficient system DBS . In the case of per step routing step cross overs between systems the cost of a first step performed on a first system and a second step performed on a second system are also costed in order determine a low cost plan.

The present invention uses cost functions of each system to determine routing. Moreover cost coefficients for each system are a function of the tuning for example block size . Finally the decision to route can be based on which system can meet the SLG.

As used herein a cost or cost function provides an estimate of how many times rows must be moved in or out of AMPs within a system . Such movement includes row read row writes or AMP AMP row transfers. The purpose of a cost analysis is not to unerringly choose the best strategy. Rather if there is a clearly best strategy it is desirable to find and route a function to a system tuned for such a strategy. Similarly if there is clearly a worst strategy it is desirable to avoid a system tuned for such a strategy. Since each system may be tuned differently the cost function may be utilized to determine which system should be used for a particular query or query step.

Cost based query optimizers typically consider a large number of candidate plans and select one for execution. The choice of an execution plan is the result of various interacting factors such as a database and system state current table statistics calibration of costing formulas algorithms to generate alternatives of interest heuristics e.g. greedy algorithms to cope with combinatorial explosion of the search space cardinalities etc. In addition a cost model can be used to estimate the response time of a given query plan and search the space e.g. state space or the differently tuned systems of query plans in some fashion to return a plan that utilizes one or more systems with a low minimum value of cost. For example a cost function may compute a cost value for a query plan that is for instance the time needed to execute the plan the goal of optimization is to generate the query plan with the lowest cost value. To achieve efficiency cost models estimate the response time for the variously tuned systems using approximation functions. Thus the different method systems response times for performing a unit of work are compared and the most efficient system or systems is selected.

As a result the present invention enables new efficiencies in a domain comprising a multi system environment that are not possible within a single DBS . In a single DBS a tuning parameter must be in a single state and cannot be in multiple states which often causes a trade off between conflicting objectives. However with a multi system environment the trade offs inherent in tuning a single system are not present. Major differences in tuning and configuration are possible between the constituent systems . When combined with the ability to intelligently route a workload between the systems this invention opens up new solutions to data warehouse problems.

In conclusion while specific embodiments of a broader invention have been described herein the present invention may also be carried out in a variety of alternative embodiments and thus is not limited to those described here. For example while the invention has been described here in terms of a DBS that uses a massively parallel processing MPP architecture other types of database systems including those that use a symmetric multiprocessing SMP architecture are also useful in carrying out the invention. Many other embodiments are also within the scope of the following claims.

