---

title: Alignment method for parabolic trough solar concentrators
abstract: A Theoretical Overlay Photographic (TOP) alignment method uses the overlay of a theoretical projected image of a perfectly aligned concentrator on a photographic image of the concentrator to align the mirror facets of a parabolic trough solar concentrator. The alignment method is practical and straightforward, and inherently aligns the mirror facets to the receiver. When integrated with clinometer measurements for which gravity and mechanical drag effects have been accounted for and which are made in a manner and location consistent with the alignment method, all of the mirrors on a common drive can be aligned and optimized for any concentrator orientation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07667833&OS=07667833&RS=07667833
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07667833
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070612
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 817 160 filed Jun. 28 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to solar collectors and in particular to alignment methods for parabolic trough solar concentrators that overlays a theoretical projected image on a photographic image of the receiver and adjusts the mirror facets of the trough concentrator until the images coincide.

Parabolic trough solar concentrators use mirrored surfaces curved in a parabolic shape. The mirrors focus sunlight on a receiver tube or heat collection element HCE running the length of the trough. In a trough power plant oil runs through the HCE in the focal region where it is heated to high temperatures and then goes through a heat exchanger to generate steam. The steam is then used to run a conventional power plant. Such parabolic trough solar concentrators have been developed fielded and are currently producing electricity in the United States and are in development in other nations. See H. Price et al. Advances in Parabolic Trough Solar Power Technology 105 288 2002 and V. E. Dudley et al. Test Results SEGS LS 2 Solar Collector 94 1884 Sandia National Laboratories Albuquerque N. Mex. 1994 .

Most trough concentrators use multiple mirror facets that have to be aligned to the HCE. Accurate mirror alignment of faceted solar concentrators maximizes the reflected sunlight intercepting the HCE and can enable the use of a smaller HCE or the use of a larger aperture concentrator with the same size HCE thereby improving overall collector efficiency. In addition practical alignment can potentially reduce solar collector installation fixture accuracy requirements and cost. However a problem with trough concentrators has been the lack of accurate mirror facet alignment preventing maximum energy efficiency.

Compared with parabolic dish concentrators practical optical alignment techniques for the accurate alignment of parabolic trough concentrators have not been developed. The relatively short focal lengths and low operating temperature in parabolic trough systems have allowed them to be developed and commercialized with relatively inaccurate alignment by the use of fixtures. Their linear nature has also been a barrier to the development of practical optical techniques. Parabolic dishes on the other hand require precise alignment especially to minimize flux hot spots on the solar receiver. In addition the fact that the facet normals of parabolic dishes conveniently point to the same general location approximately one focal length behind the dish focus facilitates alignment.

Accurate alignment of concentrating collectors by the use of fixtures is extremely difficult. Error stack up and indeterminate effects such as thermal expansion make the use of fixtures challenging for precise large optical systems. For parabolic dishes only optical techniques which inherently account for error stack up and other factors have provided the required alignment accuracy. Where optical techniques have been used to measure the alignment of fixture aligned parabolic troughs significant misalignment has been reported. Mechanical fixtures also do not lend themselves to checking alignment after installation.

Various optical techniques have been developed to align parabolic dishes. Distant observer and distant light source techniques have been developed to align parabolic dishes lasers have been used to align solar furnace mirrors and parabolic dishes and a video based technique for mirror characterization and facet alignment has been developed and implemented. See F. R. Livingston Activity and Accomplishments in Dish Stirling Electric Power System Development 1060 82 Pasadena Calif. 1985 M. K. Selcuk Parabolic Dish Test Site History and Operating Experience 1060 84 Pasadena Calif. 1995 R. B. Diver et al. A New High Temperature Solar Research Furnace Vol. 105 pp. 288 293 1983 R. B. Diver Method and apparatus for aligning a solar concentrator using two lasers U.S. Pat. No. 6 597 709 and J. B. Blackmon and K. W. Stone Application of the Digital Image Radiometer to Optical Measurement and Alignment of Space and Terrestrial Solar Power Systems Paper No. 93217 28 Atlanta Ga. 1993 . Variations on the distant light source technique have been further developed to enable near alignment and daylight alignment by the use of color targets and video cameras. See R. B. Diver Mirror Alignment Techniques for Point Focus Solar Concentrators 92 0668 Sandia National Laboratories Albuquerque N. Mex. 1992 R. B. Diver Mirror Alignment and Focus of Point Focus Solar Concentrators Solar Engineering 1995 Maui Hi. 1995 C. E. Andraka et al. Improved Alignment Technique for Dish Concentrators Kohala Coast Hawaii Island Hi. 2003 and B. J. Steffen et al. Development and Characterization of a Color 2F Alignment Method for the Advanced Dish Development System Kohala Coast Hawaii Island Hi. 2003 . With these techniques differences between theoretically calculated and optically measured image positions are used to guide alignment.

Despite the relatively advanced state of commercialization of parabolic troughs optical alignment is undeveloped. One of the early concepts proposed utilizing reflected images in the mirrors but it was never developed. See R. L. Wood Distant Observer Techniques for Verification of Solar Concentrator Optical Geometry 53220 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Livermore CA 1981 . The use of lasers to statistically determine optical accuracy and mirror alignment has received the most attention and an approach based on stereoscopic photography has shown promise. See T. Wendelin 2004 B. L. Butler and R. B. Pettit Optical Evaluation Techniques for Reflecting Solar Concentrators 144 Society of Photo Optical Instrumentation Engineers Bellingham Wash. 1977 E. Lupfort et al. 2005 and M. R. Shortis and G. Johnston Photogrammetry An Available Surface Characterization Tool for Solar Concentrators Part II Assessment of Surfaces Vol. 119 pp. 281 291 1997 . The distant observer technique has been used to align LS 2 trough facets as part of its HCE performance characterization. See T. A. Moss and D. A. Brosseau Final Test Results for the Schott HCE on a LS 2 Collector 2005 4034 Sandia National Laboratories Albuquerque N. Mex. 2005 . Unfortunately trough spacing requirements do not permit the use of the distant observer technique within a trough field. The laser and stereoscopic techniques are also complex require sophisticated equipment and setup and are impractical for the staggering number of mirrors in a trough solar power plant.

A desirable mirror alignment method for any concentrating solar collector would 1 be simple to set up and implement 2 use a minimum of sophisticated hardware 3 not require removal of the HCE receiver 4 not require sun or other restrictive weather conditions 5 not require line of sight to a distant observer or light source and 6 permit accessibility to the mirrors for adjustments. See R. B. Diver 1995 . The Theoretical Overlay Photographic TOP alignment method of the present invention provides these desirable features for aligning parabolic trough solar concentrators.

The present invention is directed to methods to align a parabolic trough concentrator preferably but not exclusively comprising providing a line focusing parabolic trough concentrator module comprising at least two rows and at least one column of mirror facets and a linear receiver providing an alignment fixture comprising one or more off axis camera positions for each row of the module positioning the alignment fixture perpendicularly to the trough of the module determining the boresight offset of the alignment fixture and thereby the locations of the off axis camera positions photographing the image of the receiver in a mirror facet with a camera at the off axis camera position for that mirror facet calculating a theoretical projected image of the concentrator and the receiver image in the mirror facets as seen by the camera at the off axis camera position using geometric ray tracing shifting the theoretical projected image to account for the boresight offset and overlaying the theoretical projected image on the photographic image and adjusting the mirror facet to bring the photographic image to coincide with the theoretical projected image in the overlay. The alignment steps can be repeated for each mirror facet in each row and column of the module. The boresight offset can be determined using image analysis and photogrammetry techniques or a boresight gauge and a middle boresight camera. The alignment fixture can be centered to eliminate the boresight offset by bore sighting the middle boresight camera on the receiver and the vertex of the trough concentrator. By not including the image shifting and mirror facet adjusting steps the method can be used to optically characterize the trough concentrator.

The method can also be used to relatively align a plurality of trough concentrator modules on a common drive using one of the modules as a reference module. Therefore the method further comprises determining the relative tilt or twist of at least one additional line focusing parabolic trough concentrator module on a common drive with the reference module. The relative tilt or twist can be determined by comparing clinometer measurements on the reference module with clinometer measurements on the at least one additional module. The theoretical projected image can then be shifted to compensate for the relative tilt or twist of the at least one additional line focusing parabolic trough concentrator module and preferably repeating the alignment steps for the mirror facets of the at least one additional line focusing parabolic trough concentrator module.

The TOP alignment method of the present invention satisfies all of the requirements of a desired alignment process. It uses relatively low technology equipment inherently aligns the mirrors to the HCE and can be implemented day or night within the rows of commercial trough power plants. It is also adaptable for use in new installations mirror replacement and for characterizing gravity induced optical errors. Alignment accuracy should be better than the optical accuracy of the mirrors themselves therefore enabling the best possible optical performance. Accurate alignment of faceted solar concentrators is desirable for achieving full performance potential and is a critical requirement for parabolic dishes. Even for parabolic troughs accurate mirror alignment helps reduce spillage losses in existing facilities and can improve the concentration ratio and potentially reduce installation costs in new designs.

In is shown a side view schematic illustration of a parabolic collector that illustrates the basic principles of the TOP alignment method of the present invention. The collector comprises a line focusing parabolic trough concentrator and a linear receiver or HCE . The parabolic axis lies in the z direction through the vertex of the trough concentrator . Elevation is in the vertical y direction. The trough of the concentrator and the length of the HCE run in the horizontal x direction out of the plane of the figure. The trough concentrator comprises at least two rows of mirror facets.

Each row comprises one or more mirror facets that are arranged serially in the x direction. For example four rows of mirror facets are shown in . Adjacent mirror facets in adjacent rows can be arranged in columns. The rows and columns of mirror facets form a concentrator module . Light from a source e.g. the sun is reflected by the rows of mirror facets and received by the HCE . From basic geometric principles the shape and location of the reflected HCE image in the mirror facet can be theoretically predicted. Alignment is accomplished by adjusting the aim of each of the mirror facets in the rows so that the actual reflected HCE image falls on the location of the theoretical HCE image for each mirror facet.

An exemplary alignment fixture comprises an on axis middle camera position and at least one off axis camera position and for each row and of the module e.g. camera position corresponds to mirror row . The cameras can be positioned at any location where they can see a reflected image of the HCE in the corresponding mirror facet. Preferably a camera is positioned in the center of the corresponding mirror to minimize effects due to improper mirror focal length on alignment. For example the alignment fixture can conveniently be a vertical pole with the cameras and accurately positioned along it at the positions and alternatively a single camera can be moved between camera positions and . The alignment fixture can be placed at a convenient distance from the concentrator . For example this distance can be close enough to be within the trough rows in a solar power plant but far enough away so that a camera can see an entire module of mirror facets. The alignment fixture is positioned to be perpendicular to the trough of the concentrator . Preferably the concentrator is positioned horizontally in elevation and the alignment fixture is positioned vertically so that the module points horizontally toward the alignment fixture . The concentrator can be positioned horizontally for example 1 in elevation using open loop tracking encoder feedback and the alignment fixture can be positioned vertically for example 2 with levels.

The middle camera can be used to boresight or vertically center the fixture on the collector . For example a boresight gauge can mounted at the vertex of the concentrator module between the inner mirror rows and and the middle camera can be bore sighted on the HCE receiver and the vertex by raising or lowering the fixture . The boresight gauge can be designed for simple and accurate installation from the ground. The gauge can be graded symmetrically in the y direction for example by bar coding gray scale or color so that it can be balanced above and below the HCE to position the center of the alignment fixture on the parabolic axis with the HCE and vertex . For example the gauge can comprise a rectangular plate with a long axis in the y direction and having a color center with contrasting color edges. The color center can be sized to just be hidden from the middle camera by the HCE when on axis but can readily be seen when off axis.

After the fixture is aligned images from the other cameras can then be used to align the mirror facets in each of the rows of a column or set of columns. Each camera records the location of the HCE receiver image in each mirror facet in a photographic image. Preferably the photographic image is a digital image. The HCE image location in the photograph is then compared to a theoretical projected HCE image location by overlaying the two images. Each mirror facet is then adjusted to bring the measured photographic image to coincide with the theoretical projected image in the overlay. If optical errors other than focal length errors exist photographs at additional camera positions can be used to correct for these errors. After a column or set of columns of mirror facets is photographed the alignment fixture can be moved to the next column or set of columns of mirror facets in the concentrator module to be photographed. With this method it is possible to make adjustments and observe real time feedback of the relative HCE image and theoretical HCE image locations or to post process the information and subsequently prescribe adjustments to each mirror mount.

Alternatively when positioning the fixture with the middle camera it is not necessary to place the middle camera perfectly on axis with the HCE and vertex . By the use of a patterned boresight gauge placed at the vertex of the concentrator the relative y displacement of the middle camera and fixture from the true on axis location can be determined from simple geometry. This information can be used to determine the boresight offset of the actual location of the middle camera from the on axis location and the locations of the alignment cameras . The theoretical overlay images can then modified to account for the boresight offset and the mirrors adjusted accordingly.

Alternatively it is not necessary to use a middle camera and boresight gauge to determine the boresight offset and or align the alignment fixture . Using image analysis and photogrammetry techniques the off axis cameras can be used to establish the location and orientation of the alignment fixture and the off axis cameras relative to the parabolic axis . Because the trough geometry is well known and multiple cameras have overlapping fields of view it is possible to accurately determine fixture location by applying multiple view geometry techniques. See e.g. R. Hartley and A. Zisserman Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision Cambridge University Press Cambridge UK 2003 . Alternatively by comparing the relative number of pixels between the top receiver edge and the top edge of the module with the number of pixels between the bottom receiver edge and the bottom edge of the module in the boresight camera the fixture y location can be determined.

Conversely rather than use the above method for mirror alignment the comparison of the theoretical and photograph images locations at multiple known y locations can also be used to characterize the optics of the trough including alignment errors slope errors and other optical errors. The difference between the theoretical receiver image edge location and the photograph receiver image edge location indicates a quantifiable optical error corresponding to the receiver image location. By taking images at multiple known offsets across the full extent of the mirrors the optical errors in the y direction can be quantified across the mirrors. Multiple cameras per row of mirrors or simply raising and lowering the fixture by measurable amounts and acquiring images can be used to acquire multiple y location images per mirror.

A solar collector assembly SCA of a trough power plant can comprise a plurality of trough concentrator modules typically six to twelve on a common drive. For good optical performance of the SCA it is necessary that the individual modules be pointed in parallel alignment with each other. The TOP alignment method as described above aligns all of the mirror facets in a module to the HCE. It does not guarantee all of the modules on a drive are aligned with each other. However by measuring relative module misalignment with clinometers the present invention allows for all of the mirrors on a common drive to be aligned to the HCE optimized for any specific orientation.

A clinometer can be used to measure the angle of slope tilt of each module with respect to gravity. By measuring the relative tilts of the modules on the drive with a clinometer the relative alignment of all of the modules on the common drive can be determined. Further by utilizing a clinometer mounted between the HCE receiver and concentrator vertex between the inner two mirrors and placing the clinometer fixture in the same location and manner as the boresight gauge the clinometer can measure relative module alignment utilizing the same geometric reference as the TOP mirror facet alignment. The relative module misalignment and mirror facet alignment can then be simultaneously corrected by adding the relative module adjustment to the theoretical overlays of the mirror facets for each module. For example if a module is misaligned relative to the reference module by 4 milliradians to the east the theoretical overlay HCE image location for that module can be shifted 4 milliradians to the west to compensate. The reference module can be a specified module for example one adjacent to the drive. Alternatively adjustments can be made relative to the average relative module tilt. In addition by characterizing relative twist of modules for a SCA with multiple clinometers on fixtures as functions of orientation it is possible to account for gravity bearing receiver flex hose or receiver rotating joint drag on relative module alignment twist and compensate relative module alignment accordingly. With this method it is possible to align the array of modules and mirrors in the modules for any specific orientation such as for the zenith concentrator pointing straight up . Furthermore because the TOP alignment inherently aligns to the HCE variations in HCE location can be accounted for.

Ray tracing from a camera position to a mirror facet and then to the edges of the HCE can be used to calculate the theoretical location of the HCE image in the mirror facet and then draw a graphical projection of the image and mirrors as seen by the camera. The equations presented below are based on vector methods used in analytic geometry and are variations on equations used for the alignment of parabolic dishes. See R. B. Diver 1992 and R. B. Diver 1995 .

Consider the coordinate system illustrated in . Alignment errors along the x axis are not considered since the reflected rays still intercept the HCE receiver . Because the trough has no curvature along the x axis the theoretical image of the HCE is straight along the x axis and the y and z image locations along the mirror rows are constant. Therefore to determine the theoretical image location as viewed from an off axis camera A it is convenient to consider only the z and y vector components. In the parabola vertex is the origin and the x axis is perpendicular to the plane of the figure. The focal line of the parabola is represented by a point F. For a parabolic concentrator the vertex can be defined as the middle of the trough i.e. the intersection of a vertical line through the middle of the center column of mirror facets and the horizontal line along the parabola vertex x axis . The z axis is the optical axis of the trough concentrator . A mirror location in space B is given by its coordinates B B B and the linear HCE is parallel to the x axis and perpendicular to the z axis.

Utilizing the characteristics of the parabola shows that for a solar ray to be reflected from the sun S to the focus F the mirror normal for a perfect parabola vector BG must bisect the angle SBF in the z y plane and the distance between points F and G is equal to the distance between points B and F. This relationship is true for all mirror positions B. Point G is at the intersection of the facet normal and the z axis and is different for each mirror y position.

When calculating the corrected HCE image location to account for relative module tilt the mirror normal is modified by adding the clinometer determined adjustment to the mirror normal vector BG.

Useful equations for a parabola applied to the coordinate system in are 4 and 1 2 1 cos 2 where is the parabola focal length R is the distance from the parabola to the focus in the z y plane and is the mirror position angle. See J. A. Duffie and W. A. Beckman John Wiley Sons New York N.Y. Chap. 8 1974 .

To determine the location of the image of the HCE lower receiver edge in the mirror facet B as seen by the camera A the reflected vector BD from the mirror tangent to the bottom edge of the HCE receiver can be iteratively calculated using the vector BA from the camera A to the mirror B and the mirror normal vector BG by the use of the following vector mathematics equation 

The location of where vector BD intersects the target plane E the plane through the center of the receiver perpendicular to the z axis corresponding to the bottom edge of the receiver is point Eand can be calculated by scaling the y component of vector BD in accordance with the z component which is known. The scale factor between vector BE and vector BD M is therefore

With this set of equations the location on a mirror point B corresponding to where the reflected ray BD intersects the edge of the receiver can not be explicitly solved. It requires an iterative solution to find the mirror position B such that vector BD is tangent to the receiver. Furthermore because a HCE receiver has a circular cross section for this example the effective y location corresponding to where vector BD is tangent to the receiver depends on the angle in the z y plane of vector BD. For the lower receiver edge image the effective target plane y location Eis cos 10 where r is the HCE tube radius. R is the distance from the mirror B to the focus F in the zy plane from Eq. 2 . For the upper receiver image the effective target plane y location Eis cos . 11 

The above equations when iteratively solved determine the y location on the mirror Bcorresponding to the bottom and top edge of the receiver as seen from the camera A. Because the parabolic trough has no curvature along the x axis the theoretical image of the receiver is straight along the x axis. Assuming the receiver length is the same as the concentrator length the theoretical x locations in the mirrors corresponding to receiver ends can also be iteratively calculated. Solving the above equations for both sides and ends of the receiver gives the theoretical edge locations on the mirrors of the reflected image as seen by the camera A of perfectly aligned parabolic mirror facets.

The theoretical overlay is the calculated two dimensional projection of the mirrors and theoretical receiver image determined above as seen by a camera at point A. Projection theory is used to calculate what a camera would see for a perfectly aligned mirror. In a camera the projected image is inverted through lenses onto a detector. For this analysis the mirror corner coordinates and receiver image corner coordinates are projected onto a view plane V between the camera A and mirror B. Because the theoretical image and photograph when overlaid are scaled to match dimensionally the view plane position and therefore the size of the theoretical overlay is not important. In the camera is shown pointed parallel to the z axis and perpendicular to the view plane V. In this case the x and y coordinates for the image and mirror facet corners in the view plane V can be calculated by simply scaling the x and y image and mirror coordinates to the relative z component distances between the camera to view plane vector and camera to facet or image point vectors. If the camera is pointed elsewhere such as the parabola vertex it is convenient to use Cartesian cylindrical coordinate transformations to align the camera and view plane axis with the transformed z axis to scale the view plane coordinates.

In is shown a photograph of an LS 2 parabolic trough solar concentrator and an exemplary alignment fixture at the National Solar Thermal Test Facility NSTTF in Albuquerque N. Mex. The concentrator is on a rotating platform to facilitate collector performance measurements. The LS 2 trough concentrator is one of three LUZ concentrator designs fielded at the nine Solar Electric Generation Systems SEGS power plants in southern California. The LS 2 concentrator features a central torque tube and truss mirror supports. A concentrator module consists of 20 thermally slumped parabolic contoured low iron back silvered glass mirrors and two heat collection elements. The aperture is 5 meters rim to rim and is nearly 8 meters wide. See H. Price et al. and V. E. Dudley et al.

The exemplary alignment fixture comprised a heavy duty tripod on which a 2.5 cm 7.5 cm 1 3 inch aluminum rectangular tube was mounted. Aluminum Unistrut channel and five angle brackets provided adjustable camera position mounts. The camera shown in is mounted at the boresight middle camera position . A Nikon D70 digital camera with an 18 70 mm focal length lens was used. The alignment fixture was placed at approximately 10.4 meters 34 ft from the trough concentrator . At this distance the camera field of view covered the entire module at a focal length setting of 26 mm. At focal length settings of less than about 22 mm needed to see the entire module at less than about 8 meters 26 feet fisheye distortion of the image was detectable. For these tests one camera position was used per mirror row. Inner row camera positions and were 0.729 m from the middle camera position and the outer camera positions and were 1.970 m from the middle position . These positions corresponded to the mirror facet center location for each row which minimized the effect of facet focal length variations on alignment. Care was taken to accurately locate the camera focus at the prescribed positions. For most of the tests the camera was sighted parallel to the z axis by visually framing the module and aiming at the center of the corresponding row. Other tests were performed with the cameras pointed toward the trough vertex with consistent results.

The trough concentrator was pointed horizontally towards the alignment fixture . The trough concentrator was positioned horizontally 1 in elevation using its open loop tracking encoder feedback and the fixture was positioned vertically 2 with levels. Using boresight gauges mounted between the inner mirror rows and the middle camera was bore sighted on the HCE receiver and vertex of the concentrator by raising and lowering the fixture . Images from the other four camera positions were then used to align the five mirror facets in each of the four rows in the module. Each camera recorded the location of the reflected image of the HCE in each mirror in a digital photographic image. The reflected image location in the photograph was then compared to the theoretical projected image location by overlaying the two images. The difference between the theoretical and photographed reflected image edge locations as seen by the camera was used to measure the vertical component of mirror slope error magnitude and direction for each corresponding image pixel location in the mirror. Mirror facets were then adjusted to bring the photographic image to coincide with the theoretical projected image in the overlay. The mirror aim was adjusted by adding shim washers between the mirror facet and mounting frame until the images visually coincided. By taking images at multiple locations per row this method can be used to optically characterize individual mirror facets or mirrors on modules with high spatial resolution.

During the proof of concept testing all of the mirror alignment shim washers were removed and the module was characterized with both the TOP alignment method of the present invention and the distant observer technique. For the distant observer rather than aiming the trough by maximizing the amount of black seen in the mirrors the trough was bore sighted to the HCE using boresight gauges similar to those used to boresight the camera fixture as described above. The TOP alignment method was then used to determine which mounts needed shim washers. After three iterations the module was aligned.

In are shown two sets of image overlays before and after alignment of the upper and bottom outer rows and respectively of the LS 2 trough concentrator. As can be seen from the camera photographic image of the HCE receiver does not coincide with the overlaid theoretical projected image before alignment. As can be seen from the theoretical projected image accurately coincides with the camera photographic image of the receiver in the aligned concentrator. Even with the limited capability image overlay software used in these tests repeatable and precise alignment was obtained.

In are shown distant observer photographs before and after alignment of the LS 2 trough using the TOP alignment method. Nearly perfect distant observer alignment was obtained with the TOP alignment method. As can be seen by comparing the theoretical overlay photographs in with the distant observer photograph in correlation between the two methods is very good.

It is important to note that the NSTTF LS 2 trough concentrator as assembled met design specifications. Therefore suggests the inadequacy of using mechanical fixtures alone to accurately align mirrors. The TOP alignment method accommodates the four point mounts utilized on the LS 2 trough concentrator. For example the middle mirror facet in clearly shows a slanted HCE image before alignment. This misalignment was readily accommodated by adding more spacers to the left side than the right of the facet to provide the aligned middle facet in .

Various tests were conducted to determine repeatability and error sensitivity. Testing established that the boresight position was easily repeatable within 5 mm and that overlay results are repeatable day to day. The effect of the concentrator module being rotated around the y axis relative to the fixture by rotating the platform 5 degrees was also evaluated. Although this rotation distorted the image relative to the theoretical overlay the photograph appeared large on one side and small on the opposite side because the theoretical image was still centered in the facets good estimates of needed adjustments may still be made. For the same reason results were also insensitive to the distance from the camera to the trough concentrator within approximately 0.5 m 1.6 feet . Testing also showed minimal structural deflections when the LS 2 trough was rolled over to point in the opposite direction. Image movements from shim washer thicknesses corresponding to approximately 2 milliradians mrad of tilt were readily detectable. The testing showed the alignment method had enough resolution to accommodate half thickness 1 mrad washers for even more precise alignment.

A field deployment alignment fixture may utilize carefully mounted and adjusted fixed video cameras image processing and analysis software and a truck or trailer mounted self leveling fixture. For bore sighting an electric actuator may raise and lower the fixture. For large scale commercial applications a trailer mounted camera fixture may be towed between rows. Surveying technology like that used to plow straight rows for agriculture or ultrasonic distance measurement devices may establish the correct distance to the trough row being aligned. A field crew may install and remove survey guides and boresight gauges while a driver and optical technician may guide the fixture trailer until the middle camera is centered horizontally on a module. After raising or lowering the fixture to boresight the middle camera on axis with the HCE and trough module and checking the verticality of the fixture images may be taken and stored in a database. By careful design of the boresight gauge it is not necessary to precisely boresight the fixture thereby minimizing the amount of time needed for alignment. Leveling of the fixture can be automated utilizing clinometers and drive mechanisms on the two axes of the fixture. The fixture may then be driven to the next module and the process repeated. With fast image acquisition and continuous leveling of the fixture it is possible to characterize trough mirror alignment without having to stop. The images may be processed later and work orders detailing alignment adjustments may be created. Alignment adjustments may be made when convenient perhaps even while the plant is operating. As deemed necessary for quality assurance additional measurements to ensure proper mirror alignment may be made. A possibility for new installations is to stencil theoretical image lines on the mirrors themselves thereby allowing the installation crew to align the facets during installation from video images.

There are three primary sources of error that affect alignment accuracy with the TOP alignment method of the present invention 1 mirror location errors 2 image location errors and 3 target location errors. Mirror location errors refer to differences between the theoretical mirror location and its actual location. Image location errors refer to errors in centering the photographic image on the theoretical image and target location errors are errors in positioning the target and camera s relative to the concentrator.

Because the HCE receiver serves as the target and the cameras HCE and mirrors are bore sighted together errors associated with the target location are minimized. For example it is possible that the HCE may not be positioned straight parallel to the x axis in the y direction . However because the TOP alignment inherently aligns to the HCE this is not important for accurate alignment. Similarly correct positioning of the HCE in the z direction is also not critical. It is also possible that HCE position may be offset from the trough optical axis. Large or asymmetric mirror mount adjustments may serve as flags to check for gross HCE offsets. The HCE borosilicate glass envelope refracts the image of the receiver and causes it to appear slightly smaller. This effect has no impact on alignment.

Table 1 is a summary of estimated uncertainties that can contribute to alignment errors with the alignment method. These are 95 confidence estimates of what is reasonably achievable in the field extrapolated from experience with the LS 2 alignment testing described above using moderate resolution video cameras nominally 2 mega pixel resolution assuming 2 pixel accuracy . Uncertainties are expressed in terms of displacement mm of the HCE image on the mirrors. For example if the mirror position is off in the x direction along the length of the trough there are no alignment uncertainty consequences. However if it is off in the y dimension by 4 mm uncertainties of 4 mm result in where the HCE image is seen in the inner and outer mirrors. Mirror position errors in the z direction only affect the focal distance and have no impact on alignment since the receiver image is still centered in the mirror. Uncertainties were determined by calculating the difference between the theoretical image position with and without errors.

Sensitivity of the image position to facet misalignment was similarly evaluated by introducing nominal alignment errors and then evaluating the position of the resulting theoretical image. For a nominal misalignment error of 2 mrad the resulting displacement of the theoretical image is 21 mm mrad on the outer row mirrors and 18 mm mrad on the inner row mirrors. The overall additive alignment uncertainty from Table 1 is therefore conservatively less than 2 mrad for both the inner and outer row mirrors. If the uncertainties in Table 1 are representative of a 95 confidence then the 2 mrad additive alignment uncertainty estimate is greater than 2 standard deviations and the alignment error standard deviation is better than 1 mrad. Because the root mean square RMS slope errors of the LS 2 mirrors are greater than 2 mrad there is little to be gained by improving on the accuracy of this method. See T. Wendelin and R. Gee Optical Evaluation of Composite Based Reflector Facets for Parabolic Trough Concentrators 2004 ISES 04 Portland Oreg. 2004 .

Structural deflections of the HCE and mirrors between the alignment position and tracking can introduce alignment errors. If the deflections and their effect on alignment can be determined it is possible to bias align the mirrors for any specified orientation by introducing deflection compensation adjustments into the overlays. Special structural deflection tests in which the fixture is supported above the trough can be used to validate structural optical analysis models measure gravity induced optical errors and calculate overlay biases. An assumption in the error analysis is that mirror slope errors are random normal in nature. Because sampling is spatially limited to the center region of the mirrors mirror locations corresponding to the edges of the HCE receiver image as seen by the camera if the mirror has systematic slope errors alignment can be skewed. The most general systematic error is focal length errors. Sampling the center region of the mirror minimizes alignment errors caused by facet focal length variations. The width of the HCE image in the mirrors provides a measure of facet focal length. The size of the reflected image was used to focus stretched membrane facets on the Cummins Power Generation CPG 460 dish concentrator and to measure focal length of the ADDS mirrors. See Diver 1995 and Andraka et al. 2003 . Other systematic errors are also possible.

Although laser ray trace data show that systematic errors exist on LS 2 type mirrors they indicate that sampling the center of the mirror is a good location. See Wendelin 2004 . These proof of concept results also suggest that systematic slope errors are not an issue. If needed the use of bias alignment approaches or additional camera positions can be used to address systematic slope errors.

The present invention has been described as a theoretical overlay photographic alignment method for parabolic trough solar concentrators. All references listed above are hereby incorporated by reference. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

