---

title: Increasing the stability of recombinant adult human apohemoglobin
abstract: The disclosure relates to recombinant adult human apohemoglobin (apo-rHb) in which the stability has been increased by replacement of an amino acid with a counterpart from another organism, such as a deep sea diving mammal. This mutated apo-rHb may be more stable and/or give higher production yields than unmutated adult human apo-rHb. The mutated apo-rHb may be produced in microorganisms, such as or yeast cells, or animal erythroid cells. Some apo-rHb of the present disclosure may be used as part of a blood substitute.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07803912&OS=07803912&RS=07803912
owner: Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation
number: 07803912
owner_city: Madison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070314
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2005 032627 filed on Sep. 15 2005 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 610 108 filed on Sept. 15 2004 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 610 110 filed on Sep. 15 2004 the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was made with United States government support awarded by the following agencies NIH AR040252 NIH R01 HL047020 and NIH GM35649. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to compositions and or methods of producing compositions that include a form of hemoglobin.

Hemoglobin Hb is responsible for carrying and delivering oxygen to tissues and organs in animals and has been used in development of an effective and safe oxygen carrier as an alternative to blood transfusion. Hb can be obtained easily in large quantities from bovine sources or can be produced transgenically so the raw material is not limiting. Such forms of Hb however may have numerous serious side effects when transfused into a human patient. For example raw Hb may cause vasoconstriction abdominal pain and acute kidney failure. In addition products may cause elevation of blood pressure and other problems associated with interference with smooth muscle regulation.

Some of these effects may stem from the toxicity of Hb when it is outside of a red blood cell erythrocyte . In addition Hb outside of a red blood cell is rapidly broken down from its tetrameric form into dimers and monomers. These products may be taken up by the kidney and impair nephrological functions.

Therefore a need exists for oxygen delivery compositions that are safer more clinically effective and or more economically produced.

The present disclosure according to some example embodiments relates to hemoglobin rHb and or apohemoglobin apo rHb in which at least a portion of the amino acid sequence e.g. one or more amino acids has been modified to match a counterpart from another amino acid sequence e.g. another metal binding protein . If more than one counterpart amino acid is used the amino acids may be contiguous or discontiguous. According to some embodiments a counterpart may include any metal binding protein from any species. For example counterparts may include human or non human iron binding proteins. Amino acids and or amino acid sequences may be modified by any available means. For example an amino acid and or amino acid sequence may be modified by post synthesis chemical modification. An amino acid and or amino acid sequence may be may also be modified by modifying an encoding nucleic acid. An amino acid and or amino acid sequence may be may also be modified by appropriate substitution during ribosomal or non ribosomal synthesis.

The present disclosure according to one example embodiment relates to recombinant adult human apohemoglobin apo rHb in which the stability has been increased by replacement of at least one amino acid with a counterpart from sperm whale hemoglobin or hemoglobin or human fetal hemoglobin. This mutated apo rHB may be more stable and or give higher production yields than unmutated adult human apo rHb. Some apo rHb of the present disclosure may be used as part of a blood substitute.

In other example embodiments more stable human and globins are constructed by mutations of adult human rHb that are based on the naturally occurring amino acids found in adult hemoglobins of sperm whales SW Hb and other deep diving mammals and replacements found in human fetal hemoglobin HbF . Resistance to unfolding degradation and precipitation may increase production yields in and other microorganisms including other bacteria and yeasts and in animal erythroid cells such as mammalian erythroid cells. In some embodiments the production of intact usable rHb may be increased from the current level of 5 10 of total soluble protein to 30 or more.

Thus some example embodiments of the present disclosure relate to rHb production cells tissues or animals in which apo rHb contains at least one amino acid mutation in the adult human or hemoglobin subunit introduced from a sperm whale or deep diving mammal hemoglobin or human fetal hemoglobin such that the mutated apo rHb is more resistant to denaturation and thus more stable than unmutated adult human rHb.

In some embodiments the disclosure provides a method of producing a stabilized apohemoglobin subunit comprising modifying at least a portion of the amino acid sequence of adult human apohemoglobin to match a counterpart from an apohemoglobin from another organism wherein a stabilized apohemoglobin is produced. For example the modifying may comprise forming a nucleic acid encoding substantially an adult human apohemoglobin subunit with at least one variant amino acid that matches its counterpart amino acid of an apohemoglobin from another organism and expressing said nucleic acid in another microorganism or animal erythroid cells. In this context a variant amino acid may be one that differs from the wild type amino acid and matches e.g. is identical to the amino acid at the corresponding position in a subunit from another organism.

Some example embodiments may relate to nucleic acids that encode modified apo rHb. These embodiments may also encode at least two different hemoglobin subunits for co expression in the same cell to produce apo rHb. Still other example embodiments relate to systems including cells such as cells other microorganisms or animal erythroid cells for production of a more degradation resistant mutated apo rHb. These systems may also exhibit increased rHb production and fewer degradation products when compared with similar systems for production of unmutated adult human apo rHb. Other embodiments relate to methods of making the above cells and nucleic acids as well as to methods of producing mutated apo rhb.

In specific example embodiments at least one of the following amino acid mutations may be made the amino acids are specified by their helical location i.e. A13 represents the thirteenth position along the A helix as indicated in 

According to some embodiments of the disclosure at least one amino acid is modified to match the hemoglobin of another species. In some embodiments two or more amino acids are modified to match the hemoglobin of another species. In some embodiments three or more amino acids are modified to match the hemoglobin of another species. In some embodiments no more than five amino acids are modified to match the hemoglobin of another species. In some embodiments no more than ten amino acids are modified to match the hemoglobin of another species. In some embodiments no more than fifteen amino acids are modified to match the hemoglobin of another species. In some embodiments no more than twenty amino acids are modified to match the hemoglobin of another species.

The present disclosure relates in some embodiments modified forms of hemoglobin and or myoglobin e.g. apohemoglobin and or methods for producing modified forms of hemoglobin and or myoglobin e.g. apohemoglobin . Modified forms of hemoglobin and or myoglobin e.g. apohemoglobin may have improved stability and or may be suitable for use in blood substitutes. In some embodiments methods of producing modified forms of hemoglobin and or apohemoglobin may be produced may result in better yields e.g. more protein is produced more of protein produced is functional and or protein is produced more cost effectively .

In some embodiments of the disclosure modified forms of hemoglobin and or myoglobin e.g. apohemoglobin may be administered to a subject. For example an amount sufficient to improve oxygen delivery may be administered to a subject in conjunction with a blood substitute. Subjects may include humans and non human mammals. In some embodiments administration of modified forms of hemoglobin and or myoglobin e.g. apohemoglobin may be associated with little or mo hypertensive side effects relative to administration of corresponding unmodified forms.

According to one example embodiment the disclosure relates to recombinant adult human apohemoglobin apo rHb in which the stability has been increased by replacement of at least one amino acid with a counterpart from sperm whale hemoglobin or hemoglobin or human fetal hemoglobin. This mutated apo rHB may be more stable and or give higher production yields than unmutated adult human apo rHb. Some apo rHb of the present disclosure may be used as part of a blood substitute.

In specific embodiments more stable human and globins may be constructed by modification e.g. mutation of adult human rHb that are based on the naturally occurring amino acids found in adult hemoglobins of sperm whales SW Hb and other deep diving mammals and replacements found in human fetal hemoglobin HbF . Both SW Hb and HbF are much more resistant to denaturation than native adult human hemoglobin HbA . Other deep diving mammals may exhibit similar resistance. Additionally the fetal form of hemoglobin in these mammals may provide even greater resistance to degradation. Resistance to unfolding degradation and precipitation may increase production yields in and other microorganisms including other bacteria and yeasts and in animal erythroid cells such as mammalian erythroid cells.

Based on studies with Mb enhancement of degradation resistance of heme free apo globin increases the level of production of intact protein by 50 to 100 in . A similar enhancement of expression level by stabilizing the subunits and interfaces of recombinant hemoglobin may make its production in not only feasible but also profitable. In some example embodiments the production of intact usable rHb may be increased from the current level of 5 10 of total soluble protein to 30 or more.

Thus example embodiments of the present disclosure relate to rHb production cells tissues or animals in which apo rHb contains at least one amino acid mutation in the adult human or hemoglobin subunit introduced from a sperm whale or deep diving mammal hemoglobin or human fetal hemoglobin such that the mutated apo rHb may be more resistant to denaturation and thus may be more stable than unmutated adult human rHb.

Other example embodiments may relate to nucleic acids that encode mutated apo rHb. These embodiments may also encode at least two different hemoglobin subunits for co expression in the same cell to produce apo rHb. Still other example embodiments relate to systems including cells such as cells other microorganisms or animal erythroid cells for production of a more degradation resistant mutated apo rHb. These systems may also exhibit increased rHb production and fewer degradation products when compared with similar systems for production of unmutated adult human apo rHb. Other example embodiments relate to methods of making the above cells and nucleic acids as well as to methods of producing mutated apo rHb.

The present disclosure according to some example embodiments may be used in conjunction with existing rHb technologies. For example it may be used in connection with two co filed applications U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 60 610 110 and 60 610 109 as well as U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 455 676 6 204 009 6 114 505 6 022 849 and U.S. patent application publication No. 2003 0017537.

The assembly of hemoglobin in either bacteria or in animal erythroid cells is a complex process involving ribosomal synthesis of two different protein chains or subunits 141 amino acids and 146 amino acids . The newly synthesized and subunits do not appear to have any well formed structure in the absence of a partner and first assemble to form an dimer which itself is also very unstable apo dimer in where the suffix apo means no heme is bound and the protein has no red color . Only after heme iron containing red pigment is bound is the protein stabilized and resistant to degradation. Hemoglobin synthesis in bacteria may be limited by the availability of heme and as a result newly formed and proteins that are unable to find heme may tend to precipitate or be degraded by bacterial enzymes particularly subunits.

Apomyoglobins from deep diving whales are significantly more resistance to denaturation by chemical agents i.e. guanidinium chloride urea than those from the terrestrial or surface swimming mammals and these proteins may be easily expressed as intact myoglobins in . There may be significant selective pressure for increased resistance of Mb to denaturation during the sustained hypoxic and acidotic conditions that occur in whale skeletal muscles during deep and prolonged dives Zapol W. M. et al. 1979 47 968 973 Snyder G. K. 1983 54 269 294 Kooyman G. L. et al. 1998 60 19 32 Tang Q. et al. 1998 37 7047 7056 .

As shown in CD titration curves are shown in the left panel for unfolding of wild type pig apoMb open circles wild type sperm whale apoMb filled circles and pig apoMb with five replacements based on the sequence of the sperm whale protein G5A S51T D53A G74A T87K open triangles in the titration curve. The two step apoglobin unfolding mechanism is shown at the bottom of the figure Barrick D. et al. 1993 32 3790 3796 Eliezer D. et al. 1997 417 92 96 . The thickness of the ribbons indicates the amount of helical structure. Native apomyoglobin N retains most of the secondary and tertiary structure present in holomyoglobin except for the F helix. Addition of denaturant unfolds the B C. D and E helices to give a molten globule intermediate I composed of folded A G. and H helices. Further addition of denaturant results in the completely unfolded state U . The spheres in the RIBBONS drawing show the location of the mutated residues. The solid and dashed lines represent global fits to the observed CD and fluorescence changes as described in Scott et al Scott E. et al. 2000 275 27129 27136 .

Apoglobin stability correlates quantitatively with expression the yield of myoglobin production in vivo with the apoglobin stabilities of 35 different mutants that were designed to have widely different heme binding and protein folding properties was measured. See FIG. . Thus apoglobin stability has been shown quantitatively to be a major limiting factor in the production of intact heme proteins in using recombinant myoglobin as a model system Scott E. E. et al. 2000 275 27129 27136 Smith L. P. 2003 PhD Dissertation Biochemistry Cell Biology Rice University Houston Tex. and Olson J. S. et al. 1997 25 227 241 .

In the top graph shows the raw absorbance data for a typical assay of cells expressing wild type sperm whale myoglobin. For these assays 5 ml cultures were grown overnight using the constitutive expression system of Springer and Sligar Springer B. A. et al. 1987 84 8961 8965 Olson J. S. et al. 1997 25 227 241 Smith L. P. 2003 PhD Dissertation Biochemistry Cell Biology Rice University Houston Tex. . The cells were spun down and resuspended to an ODof 0.5 to normalize the number of cells in each assay. The suspensions were flushed with 1 atm of CO and reduced with a small amount of dithionite. Visible spectra were recorded from 600 to 350 nm and the derivative spectra were calculated numerically as shown. The ratio of the peak to trough absorbance derivative signal for mutant Mb was divided by that for wild type Mb to obtain relative expression yield used in

Also in the bottom graph shows the free CO heme has a broad Soret absorbance band at 412 nm readily oxidizes to 4 coordinate hemin with a very broad peak at 380 nm and does not interfere with the HbCO derivative spectrum Looker D. et al. 1994 231 364 374 . The peak to trough difference at 420 nm was used as a measure of holoMb expression level.

The unfolding constant K represents the ratio of denatured unfolded state U to the native folded state N and can be obtained from titrations with a highly soluble denaturant like guanidinium chloride GdmCl or urea which facilitates the N to U reaction. The reciprocal of this value is the folding constant K 1 K which indicates how stable the apoglobin is. It is the equilibrium constant for the U to N reaction. For example wild type sperm whale myoglobin has K 12 000 so that at equilibrium 12 000 molecules are folded and 1 is unfolded at room temperature. This number is often expressed on a logarithmic scale as logKor from the experimentally determined unfolding constant logK for which the negative sign indicates inversion of the constant. The large and more positive the value of logK the more stable the protein. Thus in the points at logKvalues equal to 6 indicate a folding constant of 1 000 000 and very stable protein structures which correlate with high levels of expression in

In the correlation explains 52 of the total variance and has a p value of 0.0000009. The linear regression between these two parameters is log expression 1.26 0.27 logK . The dashed lines encompass 90 of the data points and are 0.42 from the regression line Smith L. P. 2003 Biochemistry Cell Biology Rice University Houston Tex. .

Accordingly Without being limited to any particular mechanism of action or theory some example embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the creation of more stable and subunits that may have strengthened tertiary structures and interactions in the interface. For example dimers may be more resistant to degradation and precipitation while waiting for heme insertion. In some specific example embodiments amino acid substitutions may include without limitation the example substitutions shown in Table 1.

As shown in Table 1 the first set of mutations are designed to increase the stability of the individual subunits based on sequence comparisons between sperm whale and human hemoglobin. This first strategy is based on the assumption that sperm whale hemoglobin is under selective pressure to be more resistant to denaturation.

The second set is designed to strengthen the interface based on comparisons between adult hemoglobin and fetal hemoglobin. This strategy is based on the observation that fetal hemoglobin is significantly more resistant to both acid and alkaline denaturation Bunn H. F. et al. 1986 W. B. Saunders Philadelphia . The rate of dissociation of dimers may be at least 3 fold smaller than that of dimers and the rate of assembly of holo chains with holo chains containing G and H helical substitutions based on chains may have significantly higher bimolecular rates of dimer formation Mrabet N. T. et al. 1986 261 1111 1115 McDonald M. J. et al. 1987 262 5951 5956 Adachi K. et al. 2001 289 75 79 Adachi K. et al 2003 42 10252 10259 Joshi A. A. 1994 269 8549 8553 . The replacements found in chains significantly stabilize the dimer interface and increase resistance to apo dimer unfolding which when used in the context of the present disclosure may enhance expression in a microorganism such as

Over ten years ago it was discovered that sperm whale apomyoglobin is 20 to 100 times more resistant to GdmCl induced denaturation than most other mammalian apoMbs and Scott E. E. 2000 275 27129 27136 Hargrove M. S. et al. 1994 33 11767 11775 . This observation has been discussed anecdotally in the literature and accounts for why sperm whale apoMb was chosen for detailed unfolding studies Hughson F. M. et al. 1990 249 1544 1548 Nishimura C. et al. 2003 334 293 307 Nishimura C. et al. 2000 7 679 686 Garcia C. et al. 2000 39 11227 11237 Eliezer D. et al. 2000 39 2894 2901 . Sperm whale holomyoglobin can be expressed constitutively in large amounts in without adding heme and without producing large amounts of unfolded apoprotein in inclusion bodies. In contrast pig and human myoglobin generally cannot be expressed readily as holoproteins without adding hemin Varadarajan R. et al. 1985 82 5681 5684 Dodson G. et al. 1988 2 233 237 Springer B. A. et al. 1987 84 8961 8965 Lloyd E. et al. 1994 340 281 286 . The underlying physiological cause of these differences was discovered in a study of the unfolding properties of 13 different mammalian Mbs Scott E. E. et al. 2000 275 27129 27136 . ApoMbs from deep diving whales are significantly more stable than those from the terrestrial or surface swimming mammals that were examined. These results indicate among other things that there is significant selective pressure for increased resistance of Mb to denaturation during the sustained hypoxic and acidotic conditions that occur in whale skeletal muscles during deep and prolonged dives Zapol W. M. et al. 1979 47 968 973 Snyder G. K. 1983 Respir Physiol 54 269 294 Kooyman G. L. et al. 1998 60 19 32 Tang Q. et al. 1998 37 7047 7056 .

GdmCl induced unfolding curves for 28 different apoMbs were analyzed in terms of the two step three state mechanism first described by Barrick Baldwin and Wright and Barrick D. et al. 1993 32 3790 3796 and Hughson F. M. et al. 1990 Science 249 1544 1548 using algorithms devised by Eftink s group to analyze combined CD and fluorescence data Ramsay G. et al. 1995 69 701 707 . The fitted values of Kand Krepresent equilibrium constants for the native N to intermediate I and intermediate I to unfolded U transitions in the absence of denaturant. NMR and mutagenesis studies have shown that the first transition involves melting of the heme pocket with little change in secondary structure of the A G and H helical core Hughson F. M. et al. 1990 249 1544 1548 Nishimura C. et al. 2003 334 293 307 Garcia C. et al. 2000 39 11227 11237 Eliezer D. et al. 1998 5 148 155 . Higher concentrations of GdmCl are required to melt this more stable region in the second transition. The overall stability of native apoMb can be measured empirically as the concentration of GdmCl that causes 50 of the overall CD change GdmCl or as logK which is calculated as log K .

Comparisons of the amino acid sequences of pig and sperm whale myoglobin suggest several substitutions that might account for the differences in stability. As shown in five replacements are sufficient to increase the stability of pig apoMb to that of wild type sperm whale apoMb. The three alanine mutations G5A D53A and G74A appear to stabilize the native state by elongating and strengthening the A D and E helices. Scott et al. s results however do not show that mutation of human hemoglobin will produce useful stabilizing changes which sites should be mutated or that any mutants will actually increase production yield in bacteria such as

Sperm whale and human hemoglobin subunits may be compared and used to selectively mutate human hemoglobin subunits based on the assumption that sperm whale hemoglobin will be more resistant to unfolding as a result of the same selective pressure that caused whale Mb to be more stable. Thus a comparison between the primary sequences of SW and human and chains was made and mutations were selected based on increases in helix propensities. Synthetic sperm whale and genes based on the naturally occurring sequence were constructed and expressed and the recombinant whale hemoglobin was purified. The sequence comparisons proposed mutations and results with recombinant SW apoHb and four human chain mutants are shown in and Table 1. As shown in sperm whale apoHb is more resistant to unfolding induced by GdmCl than the human apoprotein at high denaturant concentrations and exhibits a very broad CD transition suggesting that the whale apoHb has more stable folding intermediates than the human protein.

Some hemoglobin mutations of some example embodiments of the present disclosure include but are not limited to Gly15 to Ala and Gly22 to Ala. These specific replacements were chosen because they suggest that the carboxy terminus of the A helix and the amino terminus of the B helix are stabilized by alanine side chains in whale subunits. The same Gly to Ala mutation at the hemoglobin A13 helical position causes a marked enhancement in human apoHb stability G A13 A curve in . subunit mutations of other example embodiments of the present disclosure are shown in and four of these replacements have been made in wild type mutant rHb tetramers. The Gly16 to Ala mutation at the A13 helical position is very successful in enhancing the resistant of human apoHb to unfolding. The shift in midpoint GdmCl concentration for G16A apoHb suggests an 50 fold increase in overall stability and remarkably this human rHb single mutant appears to be more stable than sperm whale hemoglobin itself. As shown in the measured expression level of the Gly A13 Ala mutant is 2 times greater than that of the simple wild type rHb0.0. This two fold enhancement of expression occurs in the absence and presence of heme . Co expression of the heme ultilization hug genes DIP enhances the production of both proteins significantly but again the more stable Gly16 A13 Ala mutant still expresses to a much higher level . These results demonstrate among other things that enhanced resistance to denaturation does result in higher expression levels.

Briefly in BL21 D3 cells were co transformed with PHUG 21.1 prHb0.0 plasmids and maintained on agar plates containing tetracycline and chloramphenicol. Tubes containing 5 ml of LB broth were inoculated and then grown overnight at 37 C. Various additions were made to the cultures including IPTG heme increments of 10 M total 1X and 2 2 dipyridine DIP 63 M total and the cultures were incubated at 37 C. for another 16 hours. Then the cells were pelleted resuspended to 0.5 absorbance units at 700 nm in Tris buffer pH 7.5 and equilibrated with 1 atm of CO for 15 minutes to ensure HbCO formation and no further cell growth. Spectra of these samples were recorded and first derivatives of the observed spectra were calculated. No rHbCO is detected in the absence of IPTG induction regardless of whether heme or DIP is added to the cultures.

Bunn McDonald Adachi and co workers have shown that the rate of dissociation of dimers is at least 3 fold smaller than that of dimers and that the rate of assembly of holo chains with holo chains containing G and H helical substitutions based on chains can have significantly higher bimolecular rates of dimer formation Mrabet N. T. et al. 1986 261 1111 1115 Joshi A. A. et al. 1994 269 8549 8553 Adachi K. et al. 2001 289 75 79 and Adachi K. et al. 2003 42 10252 10259 .

As mentioned above the sequences of human adult chains may be compared with the human chains from fetal hemoglobin which is known to be more stable . A similar approach may be used to exam fetal whale hemoglobin or fetal hemoglobins from other organisms. The highlighted replacements were selected to stabilize the interface partially based on mutagenesis and kinetic studies of subunit assembly and dissociation by Bunn McDonald Adachi and co workers Mrabet N. T. et al. 1986 261 1111 1115 McDonald M. J. et al. 1987 262 5951 5956 Adachi K. et al. 2001 289 75 79 Adachi K. et al. 2003 42 10252 10259 Joshi A. A. et al. 1994 269 8549 8553 . Cys112 to Ser and Thr mutations increase the rate of formation of holo dimers and have the advantage of removing a potentially reactive thiol group. The His116 to Ile mutation facilitates subunit assembly by enhancing the apolar surface of the interface. The Pro125 to Glu mutation is based on the presence of Glu Gln Glu and Glu at this position in human and chains respectively and removal of a Pro should strengthen the H helix. The remaining Tyr130 to Trp H8 and Val133 to Met H11 mutations are partially based on suggestions by Bunn and Forget 1986 W. B. Saunders Philadelphia that these naturally occurring replacements enhance the hydrophobicity of the interior of the interface. The corresponding amino acids in human and chains are Leu Trp and Trp respectively at the H8 helical position and Phe Phe and Leu respectively at the H11 position implying that there may be selection for large apolar residues.

While not meant to be limited by theory newly translated apoprotein generally should remain in solution and be resistant to proteolysis long enough for heme to be made available by either bacterial synthesis or transport of externally added heme. In this model there is competition between precipitation and proteolysis of the unfolded states and heme binding to the native state. If the fractions of the unstable I and U states are relatively high and the rate of heme transport and or synthesis is low little holoprotein will be expressed. Lucian Smith verified this model using an in vivo assay for holoMb production in and comparing the observed expression levels with the stabilities logK of the corresponding apoglobin mutants Smith L. P. 2003 The Effects of Amino Acid Substitution on Apomyoglobin Stability Folding Intermediates and Holoprotein Expression. PhD Dissertation Biochemistry Cell Biology Rice University Houston Tex. . A similar comparative mutagenesis strategy may be used to enhance the stability and expression of recombinant human hemoglobin.

A simple scheme for the assembly of holohemoglobin tetramers is shown in which based on heme binding and dissociation experiments Antonini E. and Brunori M. 1971 . Frontiers in Biology Neuberger A. and Tatum E. L. Eds. 21 North Holland Publishing Company Amsterdam Ascoli F. et al. 1981 76 72 87 Gibson Q. H. et al. 1960 77 328 341 Gibson Q. H. et al. 1963 238 1384 1388 Rose M. Y. et al. 1983 258 4298 4303 Hargrove M. S. et al. 1996 35 11293 11299 Hargrove M. S. et al. 1997 272 17385 17389 Bunn H. F. et al. 1986 243 465 475 studies of the hydrodynamic and fluorescence properties of apoHb dimers Oton J. et al. 1984 228 519 524 Kowalczyck J. et al. 1983 22 4805 4809 Chu A. H. et al. 1979 254 3772 3776 Chu A. H. et al. 1979 254 371 376 Sassaroli M. et al. 1984 23 2487 2491 and measurements of the rates of dimer and tetramer formation and dissociation Shaeffer J. R. et al. 1984 259 14544 14547 Mrabet N. T. et al. 1986 261 1111 1115 Mrabet N. T. et al. 1986 261 5222 5228 Moulton D. P. et al. 1994 199 1278 1283 Joshi A. A. et al. 1994 269 8549 8553 McDonald M. J. et al. 1990 29 173 178 Ip S. H. et al. 1977 252 82 87 . When heme is removed from human Hb the resultant apoprotein is a dimer with the interface still intact. This protein is much less stable than apoMb and rapidly denatures at temperatures 15 C. even at low concentrations the individual apoHb subunits are even less stable. Apo chains do not appear to have any well formed structure in the absence of a partner subunit whereas secondary structure is observed for isolated apoglobin subunits which self assemble into units at high concentrations even in the absence of heme Oton J. et al. 1984 228 519 524 O Malley S. M. et al. 1994 13 561 567 Waks M. et al. 1973 248 6462 6470 . By analogy with apoMb some nucleation of the G and H helical regions likely occurs in the apo Hb subunits to allow formation of a stable dimer interface . Brunori and co workers have recently suggested that this type of G and H helical intermediate occurs universally during the folding of all animal globins Musto R. et al. 2004 43 230 236 .

Much more is known about the assembly of holohemoglobin dimers and monomers and a summary is shown in Shaeffer J. R. et al. 1984 259 14544 14547 Mrabet N. T. et al. 1986 261 1111 1115 Mrabet N. T. et al. 1986 261 5222 5228 Joshi A. A. et al. 1994 269 8549 8553 Ip S. H. et al. 1977 252 82 87 McGovern P. et al. 1976 251 7871 7879 McDonald M. J. et al. 1987 262 5951 5956 Wiedermann B. L. et al. 1975 250 5273 5275 McDonald M. J. et al. 1984 165 3 15 Bunn H. F. et al. 1983 306 498 500 Vasudevan G. et al. 1997 272 517 524 Yamaguchi T. et al. 2000 270 683 687 Vasudevan G. et al. 2000 19 583 590 Adachi K. et al. 2001 289 75 79 Vasudevan G. et al. 2002 3 461 466 Jennings T. M. et al. 2002 293 1354 1357 . The initial bimolecular association rate constant for heme binding to apoglobins is large 100 Ms relatively independent of protein structure and effectively irreversible due to extremely low rate constants for heme dissociation Gibson Q. H. et al. 1960 77 328 341 Gibson Q. H. et al. 1963 238 1384 1388 Rose M. Y. et al. 1983 258 4298 4303 Hargrove M. S. et al. 1996 35 11293 11299 Hargrove M. S. et al. 1997 272 17385 17389 Hargrove M. S. et al. 1996 35 11310 11318 Benesch R. E. et al. 1990 265 14881 14885 Gattoni M. et al. 1996 271 10130 10136 . The rate constants for holo monomer to dimer and holo dimer to tetramer association are about the same between 0.2 and 0.5 Ms and roughly independent of whether or not Ois bound to the heme iron. However the rate of tetramer to dimer dissociation changes almost a million fold from 1 sto 2 10Swhen HbOis deoxygenated Ip S. H. et al. 1977 252 82 87 Ip S. H. et al. 1976 15 654 660 and is the underlying cause of cooperative Obinding Perutz M. F. 1970 228 726 739 Perutz M. F. 1990 52 1 25 Edelstein S. J. 1975 Annu Rev Biochem 44 209 232 Ackers G. K. 1980 32 331 346 Ackers G. K. 1998 51 185 253 . In contrast the rate of holo dimer dissociation k 1 10s is little affected by Obinding but this dimer dissociation rate constant does increase markedly to 10s in the absence of heme. This 100 fold increase in k coupled with the rapid unfolding of separated apo subunits accounts for the instability of human apoHb at room temperature Mrabet N. T. et al. 1986 261 1111 1115 Moulton D. P. et al. 1994 199 1278 1283 .

In Rate constants for hemin binding to native apohemoglobin apoHb dimers and monomers were taken from Rose M. Y. et al. 1983 258 4298 4303 and Hargrove M. S. et al. 1997 272 17385 17389 . Association rate constants for dimer and tetramer formation were taken from Ip S. H. et al. 1977 252 82 87 McGovern P. et al. 1976 251 7871 7879 McDonald M. J. et al. 1987 262 5951 5956 and the dissociation rate constants from Ip S. H. et al. 1977 252 82 87 . The equilibrium constant for tetramerization of subunits was taken from Ip S. H. et al. 1977 252 82 87 McGovern P. et al. 1976 251 7871 7879 . At high concentrations holo chains do appear to dimerize but the physiological relevance of this weak interaction is unclear. In patients with thalassemia lacking genes the excess chains form precipitates Heinze bodies in red cells. In contrast large amounts of stable holo tetramers are seen in red cells of patients with thalassemia lacking genes Bunn H. F. and Forget B. G. 1986 W. B. Saunders Philadelphia .

One example embodiment of the present disclosure thus relates to Hb mutants whose apoglobin subunits are stable at room temperature. Studies of the folding characteristics of apo and chains allow more sophisticated analyses of the overall apoHb unfolding curves. Similarly a more stable apoHb dimer allows direct comparisons between GdmCl acid and thermally induced folding adding more physiological relevance to stability measurements. In addition to creating a much more stable and highly expressing rHb molecule some embodiments of the disclosure also focus on doing so without creating antigenic sites and compromising reduced rates of NO scavenging and efficient Otransport.

Finally a comparison of the holoprotein yields of wild type and wt G16A rHb in small cultures in the absence and presence of heme and heme transport genes for example hug genes from is shown in . confirms that enhancing apohemoglobin stability increases holoprotein expression levels. In the absence of the hug genes the mutant expression level was roughly twice that of the wild type protein. This ratio became smaller as heme transport efficiency was increased by the hug transport system but in all cases more intact mutant protein was made. Thus according to some example embodiments of the present disclosure the mutant and hemoglobin may be usefully combined with other methods of increasing hemoglobin production such as co expression of heme transport genes to increase hemin uptake.

