---

title: Printing supply information of an image forming apparatus
abstract: An apparatus, method, system, computer program and product each capable of storing supply information of a printer supply of an image forming device, and generating a supply information list including the supply information to be printed on a recording sheet according to print settings information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08248639&OS=08248639&RS=08248639
owner: Ricoh Company, Limited
number: 08248639
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070823
---
This patent application is based on and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 228956 filed on Aug. 25 2006 in the Japanese Patent Office the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

Recently an image forming apparatus such as a printer copier etc. may be provided with the function of notifying a user when a supply of the image forming apparatus needs to be replaced for example as described in the Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2001 260502.

However such notification indicating that the supply needs to be replaced is not necessarily useful to a user who is not in charge of maintaining the image forming apparatus. Especially when the notification is printed on a recording sheet a current printing job performed by the user may be interrupted due to this notification function. Further the notification may contain confidential information that should not be disclosed to the general public such that outputting the notification may not be preferable.

On the other hand an administrator who may be in charge of maintaining the image forming apparatus is not always capable of checking a display or an output of the image forming apparatus. Even when the image forming apparatus displays or prints the notification indicating the need for replacement of the supply it may take time for the administrator to obtain such notification.

Example embodiments of the present invention include an apparatus method system computer program and product each capable of storing supply information of a printer supply of an image forming device and generating a supply information list including the supply information to be printed on a recording sheet according to print settings information.

Various settings regarding the supply information list including the appearance contents or types of the supply information list a type of the recording sheet having the supply information timing for updating the supply information timing for printing the supply information list an apparatus for printing the supply information list or a position or location at which the recording sheet having the supply information list is discharged may be determined according to the print settings information.

Further in one example before printing the supply information list a printing job being currently performed by a user may be interrupted.

Further in another example before printing the supply information list authentication may be performed on the user to determine whether to allow the user to print the supply information list.

In addition to the above described example embodiments the present invention may be practices in various other ways.

The accompanying drawings are intended to depict example embodiments of the present invention and should not be interpreted to limit the scope thereof. The accompanying drawings are not to be considered as drawn to scale unless explicitly noted.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments shown in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views illustrates an image forming system according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The image forming system of includes a plurality of image forming apparatuses and which may be collectively referred to as the image forming apparatus and a plurality of computer terminals and which may be collectively referred to as the terminal . Referring to the image forming apparatuses and and the terminal are connected via a local area network LAN . The image forming apparatus and the terminal are connected via a LAN . The LAN and LAN which may be collectively referred to as the LAN may be connected with each other to create a wide area network WAN in which all apparatus shown in can be communicated. Further the LAN may be connected to the Internet. In this example the image forming apparatus and the image forming apparatus may be directly connected with each other via a communication line which may be in compliance with the IEEE1394 standard. Further in this example as illustrated in the image forming apparatus may be connected to a host apparatus to create a server client system with the host apparatus . The image forming system of may be implemented in various other ways as long as it includes the image forming apparatus having the function of printing supply information as described below.

The image forming apparatus mainly includes a controller and a printer engine. For example the controller converts print data which may be sent from the terminal or the host apparatus to image data. The printer engine forms a toner image on a recording sheet based on the image data. The terminal or the host apparatus may be implemented by an information processing apparatus such as a general purpose computer including a processor which may be provided with a display device and an input device. Further the terminal or the host apparatus may be alternatively referred to as a client apparatus or a web client apparatus. In such case the image forming apparatus may be referred to as a server apparatus or a web server apparatus.

Referring now to an example hardware structure of the image forming apparatus is explained when the image forming apparatus is implemented by a printer capable of printing data received from the outside or stored in the image forming apparatus . Alternatively the image forming apparatus may be implemented for example as a copier capable of copying an original or a multifunctional apparatus MFP capable of performing one or more functions of scanning faxing copying printing and communicating via a network as long as it is capable of printing supply information such as supply amount information and or supply status information as described below. When the image forming apparatus is implemented by a scanner or MFP other devices such as a scanner engine a scanner device or a document feeder may be additionally provided. For the descriptive purpose in this specification the image forming apparatus may be referred to as the printer . Further the printer may include any desired kind of printer such as a laser printer or an inkjet printer.

As illustrated in the printer includes a printer controller a printer engine and an operation panel . Further as described above referring to the printer may be connected to the LAN and to the host apparatus .

The printer controller converts print data which may be received from the terminal through the network or the host apparatus to image data according to an operation mode and outputs the image data to the printer engine . The operation mode may be set by the printer using a printer driver which may be installed on the printer . Alternatively the operation mode may be set by the host apparatus the terminal or any other apparatus provided on the network using a printer driver and sent to the printer controller together with the print data. Still referring to the printer controller includes a central processing unit CPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a timer a read only memory ROM a font ROM a random access memory RAM a hard disk drive HDD a network interface controller NIC a host interface I F an engine I F a panel I F a medium I F and a card I F which are connected through a bus.

The CPU may control entire operation of the printer according to one or more programs which may be stored in the ROM . For example upon activation the CPU reads out an operating system OS program from the HDD according to a boot program stored in the ROM loads the OS program onto the RAM and activates the OS program. At the same time the CPU may load one or more application programs onto the RAM . Using one or more programs being loaded onto the RAM the CPU performs a desired operation using one or more devices of the printer controller .

The ASIC may process various data according to one or more programs which may be stored in the ROM . The timer may generate time information indicating current date or time.

The CPU may be provided with one or more memories including for example the ROM font ROM RAM and HDD . The ROM may store one or more programs which may cause the CPU or ASIC to perform a desired operation. Further the ROM may store other kind of data which may be used by the CPU or ASIC .

The font ROM may store various kinds of font data for printing. The RAM may function as a program memory for deploying various programs such as the OS program or application programs a work memory to be used by the CPU for processing various data a buffer area for storing print data to be printed on one page of document a bit map memory for storing image data converted from the print data or a shared memory storing various information relating to the supply of the image forming device such as supply information . In this example the RAM may be implemented by a nonvolatile RAM NVRAM . Alternatively one or more NVRAMs may be provided in addition to the RAM . The HDD stores a large amount of data including for example various kinds of programs including the OS program or the application programs print data to be printed information relating to the print data etc. Various information relating to the supply of the image forming device such as the supply information may be stored in the HDD .

The CPU may be further provided with one or more interfaces including for example the NIC host I F engine I F panel I F medium I F and card I F . The NIC allows the printer controller to communicate with the network . The NIC may be implemented for example by a network interface card which may be removed from the image forming apparatus . The host I F controls communication between the printer controller and the host apparatus for example to allow reception of print data or control data sent from the host apparatus or transmission of status data to the host apparatus . The engine I F controls communication between the printer controller and the printer engine for example to allow outputting of image data or control data to the printer engine or inputting of status data from the printer engine . The panel I F controls communication between the printer controller and the operation panel . The medium I F controls communication between the printer controller and an external medium which may be attached to or removed from a slot provided on the printer . For example the CPU may recognize whether the external medium is accessible by checking the change in voltage caused by inserting or removing the external medium into or from the slot.

The card I F controls communication between the printer controller and an external card which may be attached or removed from a slot provided on the printer . In one example the external card may be implemented by a SCSI card which connects the printer with a charging device provided in the image forming system of . In another example the external card may be implemented by an identification card which provides identification information of a user to the printer .

The operation panel has at least one of the functions of outputting status data received from the printer controller to the user and inputting control data to the printer controller received from the user. For example the operation panel may include a display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD capable of displaying various data. Additionally or alternatively the operation panel may include an input device capable of inputting various settings information received from the user which may be implemented by any number of keys keyboard ten key switch pointing device etc. Additionally or alternatively the operation panel may be implemented by a touch panel which provides the functions of outputting and inputting.

The printer engine includes an image forming device and a detector . In one example the printer engine performs printing operation under control of the printer controller using the image forming device. For example the printer engine forms a toner image according to the image data and the control data received from the printer controller . In another example the printer engine detects supply information of the image forming device using the detector sends the supply information to the printer controller for storage and outputs the supply information using the image forming device under control of the printer controller .

In the example case of forming a toner image the printer controller causes the printer engine to form a toner image according to print data received from the host apparatus or the terminal . In such case the CPU performs printing operation according to a printer application program using any one of the NIC host I F and engine I F . First the CPU obtains data which includes print data and control data from the host apparatus through the host I F or the terminal through the NIC . The CPU converts the print data to image data. The CPU sends the image data through the engine I F to the printer engine and instructs the printer engine to form a toner image according to the image data.

Referring now to any one of and the structure of the printer engine is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention.

Referring to the printer engine may include four image forming units K Y M and C collectively referred to as the image forming unit four toner cartridges K Y M and C collectively referred to as the toner cartridge sheet feeding cassettes and a transfer device an optical writing device a fixing device and the detector . In this example the image forming unit may have the tandem type structure which includes four photoconductors K Y M and C collectively refereed to as the photoconductor for the respective colors of black yellow magenta and cyan. For each of the photoconductors K Y M and C one or more devices are provided for example as illustrated in .

As illustrated in the image forming unit additionally includes a charging device a developing device a cleaning device and a discharging device which are provided in a vicinity of the photoconductor .

The charging device uniformly charges the surface of the photoconductor to a predetermined polarity. The optical writing device exposes a modulated light L to the charged surface of the photoconductor to form a latent image on the charged surface of the photoconductor . For example the optical writing device may module a light beam emitted from a light source according to the image data received from the printer controller and scans the modulated light L in the main scanning direction and sub scanning direction of the surface of the photoconductor to form the latent image. The developing device develops the latent image into a toner image by applying toner having the reverse of the predetermined polarity. The toner may be provided from the corresponding toner cartridge of . The toner image formed on the surface of the photoconductor is transferred to the surface of a recording sheet which may be carried by a transfer belt of the transfer device . The recording sheet may be fed by either one of the sheet feeding cassettes and shown in . The cleaning device removes the residual toner which may be remained on the surface of the photoconductor after transferring the image from the surface of the photoconductor . In this example the cleaning device may be implemented by a brush such as a magnetic brush or a blade. The residual toner collected by the cleaning device may be stored in a used toner bottle not illustrated. The discharging device discharges the charged surface of the photoconductor after transferring the image. The recording sheet having the toner image thereon is further carried by the transfer device to the fixing device . When the recording sheet passes through the fixing device the toner image is fixed onto the surface of the recording sheet by heat and pressure. In this example the fixing device may include a lubricant agent supplying device not illustrated. When fixing a lubricant agent such as oil may be supplied to the fixing device .

In this example the transfer device may transfer the toner image onto the recording sheet in two steps. As illustrated in the transfer belt of the transfer device may be implemented by an intermediate transfer belt. In such case the transfer device may additionally include a driver roller a transfer bias roller a transfer earth roller and a sheet transfer roller . The transfer belt which is an endless belt wound around the driver roller the transfer bias roller and the transfer earth roller is driven by the drive roller in the direction indicated by the arrow. The transfer belt is in close contact with the surface of the photoconductor at a first transfer position N at which the toner image formed on the surface of the photoconductor is transferred to the surface of the transfer belt . The transfer belt is in close contact with the sheet transfer roller at a second transfer position N at which the toner image carried by the transfer belt is transferred to the surface of a transfer belt that passes through the nip formed between the rollers and . When the recording sheet carrying the toner image passes through the fixing device the toner image is fixed onto the recording sheet by heat and pressure applied by the fixing device . The recording sheet having the fixed toner image is discharged from the printer to complete printing operation.

In alternative to the structure shown in or the image forming device of the printer engine may be implemented in various other ways. For example the transfer device of may not be provided with the intermediate transfer belt . In such case the toner image formed on the photoconductor may be directly transferred onto the transfer belt transferring the recording sheet toward the fixing device . In another example the position or size of each device provided in the image forming device of the printer engine may be different from the position or size shown in any one of .

As mentioned above referring to in another example operation the printer controller may manage supply information such as supply amount information or supply status information regarding the image forming device provided in the printer engine . In this example the supply amount information of the image forming device corresponds to any information obtainable by the detector which describes the amount of a supply of the image forming device provided in the printer the printer supply including for example the degree of usage of the device the remaining life time of the device the amount of consumption of a supply managed by the device or the remaining amount of the supply managed by the device. In this example the supply status information corresponds to any information relating to the current status of the printer supply such as the near end state or the end state of the printer supply. In this specification the near end state refers to the state in which the supply is in need of replacement or refill soon. The end state refers to the state in which the supply is in need of replacement or refill now. Additionally or alternatively the supply status information may correspond to information indicating whether the printer supply is a legitimate product that can be warranted by a manufacturer.

In order to obtain supply amount information regarding the photoconductor the detector may be implemented by a counter capable of counting the number of rotations of the photoconductor or a timer capable of counting a time period during when the photoconductor is in operation. In another example in order to obtain supply amount information regarding the developing device the detector may be implemented by a counter capable of counting the number or rotations of a developing roller of the developing device or a timer capable of counting a time period during when the developing device is in operation. In another example in order to obtain supply amount information regarding the transfer device the detector may be implemented by a counter capable of counting the number of rotations of the transfer belt or a timer capable of counting a time period during when the transfer device is in operation. In another example in order to obtain supply amount information regarding the fixing device the detector may be implemented by a counter capable of counting the number of rotations of a roller provided in the fixing device or a timer capable of counting a time period during when the fixing device is in operation. In another example in order to obtain supply amount information regarding the toner cartridge the detector may be implemented by a toner sensor capable of detecting the amount of toner remained in the toner cartridge . In another example in order to obtain supply amount information regarding the cleaning device the detector may be implemented by a used toner bottle sensor capable of detecting the amount of used toner stored in the used toner bottle of the cleaning device . In another example in order to obtain supply amount information regarding the fixing device the detector may be implemented by an oil supply sensor capable of detecting the amount of oil remained in the fixing device . In another example in order to obtain supply amount information regarding the sheet feeding cassette or the detector may be implemented by a sheet sensor capable of detecting the amount of sheets remained in the sheet feeding cassette or .

For the illustrative purpose an example operation of obtaining supply amount information regarding the photoconductor using the detector is explained below.

By repeating the image forming operation described above referring to which may include charging exposing developing transferring fixing and cleaning the surface of the photoconductor may be degraded such that the surface of the photoconductor may be worn or scratched or photoconductivity of the photoconductor may be lowered. This may cause one or more problems including lower image quality abnormal amount of toner consumption or jamming of a recording sheet. In light of this the photoconductor is replaced when degradation of the photoconductor is detected. Further when degradation of the photoconductor is detected image forming operation of the printer may be restricted or may not be performed such that further degradation of the photoconductor may be suppressed. In order to obtain supply amount information the detector counts an accumulated time period in which the photoconductor is driven by a drive motor to obtain a counted time period. Further in this example the counted time period may be converted to the number of pages the number of printed pages using information regarding the counted time period for printing one page of recording sheet. The number of printed pages may be stored in a nonvolatile memory such as the RAM or the HDD as the supply amount information of the photoconductor .

For the illustrative purpose an example operation of obtaining supply amount information regarding the toner cartridge is explained below.

By repeating the developing operation as described above referring to toner is consumed. Even when a monochrome or color toner image is not formed on a recording sheet toner may be consumed as long as the developing device is in operation since the toner may function as a buffering agent to suppress friction generated between the developing device and the photoconductor . When all toner stored in the toner cartridge is consumed a toner image may not be formed with high quality. Additionally when all toner stored in the toner cartridge is consumed the photoconductor may be easily degraded due to the friction generated between the developing device and the photoconductor . Further since no toner is applied to the charged surface of the photoconductor the recording sheet may be brought into direct contact with the surface of the photoconductor thus damaging the photoconductor or causing jamming of the recording sheet. In light of this the toner cartridge is replaced when low toner supply is detected. Further when lower toner supply is detected image forming operation of the printer may be restricted or may not be performed such that further toner consumption may be suppressed. In order to obtain supply amount information the detector detects the amount of toner remained in the toner cartridge the remaining toner amount for example by detecting the total weight of toner or detecting the height made by the accumulated toner. The remaining toner amount may be stored in a nonvolatile memory such as the RAM or the HDD as the supply amount information of the toner cartridge .

The supply information detected by the detector such as the supply amount information and or the supply status information may be stored in any desired memory in the form manageable by the printer controller . For example the supply information may be stored in the shared memory as illustrated in any one of and . Further in this example the display settings information and or the printing settings information may be stored in the form manageable by the printer controller for example in the shared memory as illustrated in . The shared memory may correspond to any desired nonvolatile memory such as the RAM or the HDD of .

In one example the printer controller may update supply amount information upon receiving notification from the printer engine that supply information is updated. For example the printer engine sends notification to the printer controller every time the number of printed pages is increased by 10 with 0 corresponding to the state in which the photoconductor is just installed. In another example the printer engine sends notification to the printer controller every time the remaining toner amount is decreased by 5 with 100 corresponding to the state in which the remaining toner amount is full. When notified the printer controller may update the supply amount information stored in the memory. At this time the printer controller may display a selection key that allows the user to select whether to print the updated supply amount information or a notification message that the supply amount information is updated. Upon receiving a request for printing supply amount information the printer controller may obtain the updated supply information convert the updated supply amount information in a form determined by the print settings information and print the updated supply amount information on a recording sheet.

In another example the printer controller may update supply status information upon receiving notification from the printer engine that the printer supply is in the near end state or end state. For example the printer engine sends notification to the printer controller when the number of printed pages reaches a first reference level previously set by the user such as 45 000 pages to indicate that the photoconductor is in the near end state. Alternatively or additionally the printer engine sends notification to the printer controller when the number of printed pages reaches a second reference level previously set by the user such as 50 000 pages to indicate that the photoconductor is in the end state. In another example the printer engine sends notification to the printer controller when the remaining toner amount reaches a first reference level previously set by the user such as 15 to indicate that the toner is in the near end state. Alternatively or additionally the printer engine sends notification to the printer controller when the remaining toner amount reaches a second reference level previously set by the user such as 0 to indicate that the toner is in the end state. When notified the printer controller may update the supply status information stored in the memory. At the same time or upon receiving a request for printing supply status information the printer controller may obtain the updated supply status information convert the updated supply status information in a form determined by the print settings information and print the updated supply status information on a recording sheet. Since the reference level for determining the end state or near end state of the printer supply can be changed according to the user preference the end state or near end state of the printer supply may be detected at timing appropriate for the user. In this example the reference level for determining the end state of the printer supply is set by the user. Alternatively the reference level for determining the end state of the printer supply may be set by default.

In another example the printer controller may obtain supply amount information or supply status information upon receiving a request for printing supply information from any one of the operation panel the host apparatus and the terminal . Upon receiving a request for printing supply information the printer controller may obtain the supply information stored in the memory convert the supply information in a form determined by the printing settings information and print the supply information on a recording sheet. At the time of obtaining the supply information may be updated.

In another example the printer controller may update supply status information indicating whether the printer supply is the legitimate product legitimacy information for example by detecting identification information provided on the printer supply such as integrated circuit IC chip information. For example the printer engine may determine whether the toner cartridge is the legitimate product by detecting the IC chip provided on the toner cartridge and send notification to the printer controller . When notified the printer controller may update the legitimacy information and further convert the legitimacy information to the form perceptible to a user for output. For example the printer controller may notify the user that the illegitimate product is used for example by printing a notification message or a mark indicating that the illegitimate product is used. In this manner the use of illegitimate product may be suppressed.

In any one of the above described examples the supply information may be printed according to the print settings information which may be previously set by default or according to the user preference. For example the print settings information may determine the appearance of a supply information list having the supply information the contents or types of supply information to be included in the supply information list timing for printing the supply information list the paper type of a recording sheet on which the supply information list is printed an apparatus to output the recording sheet having the supply information list a position or location at which the recording sheet having the supply information list is discharged a user who is allowed to print the supply information list a user who is allowed to print the supply information using a selected printer etc.

Further in any one of the above described examples before printing the supply information the printer controller may determine whether the printer is currently performing a printing job. When the printing job is currently being performed the printer controller may interrupt the printing job or allow the user to determine whether to interrupt the printing job. In such case the supply information may be printed in a manner such that the user may easily recognize that the supply information is printed. For example the recording sheet having the supply information may be discharged onto a tray different from a tray having a printed recording sheet.

Referring to the printer controller includes an information manager module a system manager module a job manager module a print manager module an application programming interface API manager module an internal print module and a user interface API UIAPI manager module . The above described modules and which may be collectively referred to as the printer application program may communicate with the other process or layer. For example the printer application program communicates with a page description language PDL process through a PDL API to receive image data which may be converted by the PDL process from the print data received from the outside. In another example the printer application program communicates with an outside process including a display module through a UIAPI to cause the operation panel or the display device of the host apparatus or the terminal to display various information such as supply information. In another example the printer application program communicates with a service layer module through a SYSTEM API to control one or more application programs or OS programs which may run on the CPU of the printer controller . For example the printer application program may communicate with the printer engine through the service layer module to send the image data to the printer engine or receive supply information from the printer engine .

Still referring to the information manager module may be responsible for managing supply information. In one example the information manager module may function as a request response processor which may be responsible for receiving or sending a request relating to supply information. In another example the information manager module may function as an information obtainer which may be responsible for managing the supply information stored in the shared memory such as obtaining the supply information from the shared memory or determining whether to obtain the supply information by referring to the settings information managed by the system manager module . The supply information being obtained may be updated at the time of obtaining.

The information manager module may receive the request relating to the supply information from the outside through the UIAPI manager module or internally from the system manager module as the arrows in indicate. For example the information manager module may receive the request for obtaining or updating the supply information from the outside process through the UIAPI manager module when the UIAPI manager module receives a request for displaying or printing the supply information from the outside process . In another example the information manager module may receive the request for updating supply information from the system manager module when the system manager module receives notification that the supply information is updated from the service layer module . Further the information manager module may send the request relating to the supply information to the internal print module for example as the arrow shown in indicates.

The system manager module may be responsible for managing the status of the system of the printer . For example the system manager module may function as a settings information manager which manages the settings information such as display or print settings information. As described below the print settings information may include print unprint information indicating whether to print the supply information tray information indicating whether to allow the user to select a tray to output the supply information access restriction information indicating whether to restrict printing of the supply information alternate printing activation information indicating whether alternate printing is activated alternate printing restriction information indicating whether to restrict alternate printing etc. In addition to the display or print settings information the settings information manager may manage power supply information indicating whether the printer engine is in an operation mode or an energy save mode. The power supply information may be stored in the shared memory .

In another example the system manager module may function as a plotter manager which determines whether printing operation is currently being performed by the printer engine . Alternatively the system manager module may function as an information manager which may be responsible for managing the request relating to the supply information such as initializing the information manager module or the shared memory or sending the request for obtaining or updating the supply information to the information manager module . For example the information manager of the system manager module may send the request for updating supply information upon receiving notification from the printer engine that the supply information is updated. Further the system manager module may be provided with the function of managing user identification ID information or device identification ID information which may be stored in the shared memory .

The job manager module may be provided a printing job manager which is responsible for managing a printing job. In one example the job manager module may hold printing of the supply information when the plotter manager indicates that the printer engine is currently performing a printing job. In another example the job manager module may instruct the plotter manager to interrupt a printing job currently performed upon receiving a request for printing supply information.

The printer manager module may be responsible for managing printing of image data performed by the printer engine .

The API manager module manages communication between the printer application program and the PDL process through the PDL API .

The internal print module may be responsible for printing information other than the image data including for example system settings information an error log supply information etc. In this example the system settings information which may include the print settings information may be stored in the shared memory system information . The error log may be obtained from the job manager module . Printing of supply information may be performed by a supply information printer

For example the printer may display a screen illustrated in on the operation panel upon detecting a user instruction for selecting the test print function. The printer causes the internal print module to print the system settings information when the system settings list is selected by the user through the operation panel . The printer causes the internal print module to print the error log when the error log is selected by the user through the operation panel . The printer causes the internal print module to print the supply information list when the supply information list is selected by the user through the operation panel .

The UIAPI manager module manages communication between the printer application program and the outside process through the UIAPI . The UIAPI manager module may be provided with a request response processor which receives or sends a request relating to the supply information. For example the UIAPI manager module may receive a request for displaying or printing the supply information from the outside process and send a request for obtaining supply information to the information manager module .

Referring to the internal print module of includes a command receiver a print controller an image data generator a character data obtainer and a print data obtainer .

The command receiver receives an event such as a request from the outside process . For example when the request for printing is received the command receiver may analyze the printing request and notifies the printer controller that the printing request is received.

The print controller may control printing operation upon receiving the printing request. For example the printer controller may obtain a frame or a band.

The character data obtainer and the print data obtainer each obtain information to be used by the image data generator when generating or drawing the image data for example by accessing a library storing a plurality of functions to be used for generating or drawing. Alternatively the character data obtainer and the print data obtainer may obtain supply information through the information manager module when the request for printing supply information is received.

As described above the CPU of may manage supply information using the printer application program of . For example referring to the CPU may mainly perform the functions of updating supply information obtaining supply information and printing supply information. As described above the supply information may be stored in the shared memory in the form manageable by the printer controller .

For example the supply information may have a data structure shown in which stores various information for each one of a desired number of printer supplies of the image forming device in the form of array. For example supply information and print settings information may be stored in a corresponding manner for each one of the printer supplies.

As illustrated in each supply being selected for printing may be assigned with an arbitrary digit number. In the example case illustrated in the toner is assigned with the number 0. The used toner bottle is assigned with the number 1. The developing unit is assigned with the number 2. The photoconductor unit is assigned with the number 3. The transfer unit is assigned with the number 4. The intermediate transfer unit is assigned with the number 5. The fixing secondary transfer unit is assigned with the number 6. The fixing unit is assigned with the number 7. The fixing oil unit is assigned with the number 8. By arranging supply information regarding a selected in a position determined by the digit number being assigned to the selected supply the supply information may be recognized even when such information is expressed in a sequence of numerical data as illustrated in .

For example the supply amount information which may be obtained from the printer engine at predetermined timing may be stored for the selected number of supplies. When the supply amount information is indicated by the remaining amount of the supply the supply amount information may be expressed in percentage with 100 indicating the full state of the supply. In another example the supply status information may be stored for the selected number of supplies. The supply status information may be expressed as a negative integer. In this example the negative integer 1 may indicate that the supply is illegitimate or the supply amount information is unknown. The negative integer 2 may indicate that the supply is in the near end state. The negative integer 3 may indicate that the supply is in the normal state.

Further in this example the print settings information indicating whether to print the supply information print unprint information may be stored for the selected number of supplies. The print unprint information may be expressed in the form of flag information which may be expressed by 0 1 ON or OFF . As illustrated in the flag information of 0 indicates that the print unprint information is set to not to print. The flag information of 1 indicates that the print unprint information is set to print.

In this example the print unprint information may be set substantially equal to the display settings information indicating whether to display the supply information display undisplay information . Alternatively the print unprint information may be set to have a different value from the value of the display undisplay information. In such case the display undisplay information may be additionally stored as part of the supply information

In addition to the print unprint information the other kind of print settings information may be stored for a selected number of printer supplies including for example print settings information indicating whether to print the supply status information when the near end state of the supply is detected near end print unprint information print settings information indicating whether to print the supply status information when the end state of the supply is detected end print unprint information or print settings information indicating whether to print the supply information when an error is detected in the printer . Additionally tray information indicating whether to select a tray for outputting the supply information according to the user instruction access restriction information indicating whether to restrict printing of the supply information alternate printing activation information indicating whether alternate printing is activated or alternate printing restriction information indicating whether to allow alternate printing may be stored as the print settings information. Further the supply information storing the supply information and the print settings information in a corresponding manner may be prepared for each one of a selected number of registered users.

In alternative to the data structure shown in or B the supply information may be stored in the form of table which may store a supply name supply information and print settings information in a corresponding manner for example as illustrated in . Referring to the supply information may be expressed by a character string indicating the status of the supply or by a percentage value indicating the remaining amount of the supply.

Referring to in one example the CPU updates supply information stored in a nonvolatile memory such as the RAM or the HDD upon receiving notification from the printer engine that the supply information is updated. In such case the system manager module sends a request for sending updated supply information to the printer engine to obtain the updated supply information. The system manager module then updates the supply information stored in the shared memory using the updated supply information obtained from the printer engine . The system manager module may further notify the information manager module that the supply information is updated.

In another example the CPU updates supply information stored in a nonvolatile memory such as the RAM or the HDD upon receiving a request for updating supply information internally within the printer application program. For example the request for updating supply information may be generated when a request for printing supply information is received from the outside.

In another example the CPU obtains supply information stored in a nonvolatile memory such as the RAM or the HDD upon receiving a request for obtaining supply information. For example the request for obtaining supply information may be generated when a request for printing is received from the outside. In addition to obtaining the supply information updating may be performed.

In another example the CPU obtains supply information stored in a nonvolatile memory such as the RAM or the HDD and prints the supply information upon receiving the request for printing supply information from the outside or internally within the printer application program. In addition to obtaining the supply information updating may be performed.

Further the unit or type of the supply amount information may be changed according to the print settings information. For example referring to the remaining amount is printed as the supply amount information. Alternatively or additionally the used amount may be printed as the supply amount information. In another example when more than one unit is provided for different colors one or more units corresponding to any number of colors may be selected for printing according to the user preference.

Further the appearance of the supply amount information may be changed according to the print settings information. For example referring to the supply amount information is displayed as a bar graph. Alternatively the supply amount information may be displayed in any other desired form such as an icon or picture. Further in this example the scale of the bar graph may be graduated in 10 or 20 depending on the characteristics of the detector . Alternatively when the detector is not capable of detecting with high precision the supply amount information may be replaced by the supply status information indicating whether the supply is in the end state near end state or normal state. Referring to the status OK of the used toner bottle indicates that the supply is in the normal state such that no replacement is required.

Alternatively or additionally the supply status information may be printed in replace of the supply amount information for example as illustrated in . Referring to the message REPLACE SOON printed for the yellow toner indicates that the yellow toner is in the near end state. The message REPLACE NOW printed for the magenta toner indicates that the magenta toner is in the end state.

Referring now to operation of updating supply information is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. As described above referring to the operation of may be performed by the CPU according to the printer application program upon receiving notification that the supply information is updated from the outside of the system or upon receiving a request for updating supply information internally within the system.

S determines whether supply information is obtainable from the printer engine . When the supply information is obtainable YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When the supply information is not obtainable NO at S the operation ends. For example the printer may operate under one of a plurality of modes including an operation mode and an energy save mode. In order to reduce the electric power consumption the printer may be set to automatically switch from the operation mode to the energy save mode when the idle state of the printer is detected for a predetermined time period. In this example a counted time period may be obtained by the timer of the printer controller . When the printer is in the energy save mode the electric power is not supplied to the printer engine such that supply information is not obtainable from the printer engine thus updating of the supply information is not performed. Whether the printer is in the operation mode or the energy save mode may be determined by referring to power supply information which may be stored in a nonvolatile memory such as the RAM for example as flag information.

S obtains the print settings information such as the print unprint information and determines whether the print settings information is set to ON to print. When the print unprint information is set to ON YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When the print unprint information is set to OFF NO at S the operation ends. S may be performed for each one of the supplies of the printer engine available for updating.

S causes the printer engine to obtain updated supply information for example by sending a request for supply information.

S updates the supply information stored in the shared memory which may be managed by the system manager module and the information manager module with the updated supply information obtained from the printer engine and the operation ends.

The operation of may be performed at any desired timing. In one example the operation of may be performed periodically. In another example as described below the operation of may be performed upon receiving the request for obtaining supply information or printing supply information. In another example the operation of may be performed upon receiving notification that supply information is updated from the printer engine . In another example the operation of may be performed at timing when the printer is switched from the operation mode to the energy save mode or from the energy save mode to the operation mode. In another example the operation of may be performed after completing printing of supply information. In another example the operation of may be performed at timing when the printer is turned on.

Referring now to any one of operation of obtaining supply information is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. As described above referring to the operation of may be performed by the CPU according to the printer application program upon receiving a request for obtaining supply information from the outside of the system for example from the outside process through the UIAPI using the interprocess communication technique. The operation of may be performed by the CPU according to the printer application program upon receiving a request for obtaining supply information internally within the system for example from the internal print module using the function call technique. In such case the internal print module may be created as a thread.

Referring to S performs the process of accepting the request for obtaining supply information from the outside process . For example the request may be accepted or not accepted by the request response processor of the information manager module as described below referring to .

S determines whether the request for obtaining supply information is successfully accepted by the request response processor of the information manager module . S may be performed by the information obtainer of the information manager module . If the request is successfully accepted YES at S the operation proceeds to S. If the request is not successfully accepted NO at S the operation ends.

S notifies the request response processor that updating is completed and the operation ends. Once notified the request response processor may send the updated supply information to the outside process in the form of response. Alternatively the request response processor may send notification that updating is completed to the outside processor to cause the outside processor to obtain the supply information which is updated from the shared memory .

Referring to upon receiving the request for obtaining supply information internally S starts the process of obtaining the supply information. At this time the internal print module waits until updating of supply information which may be performed in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to is completed. Upon receiving a return value from the function which includes the updated supply information at S the internal print module ends the process of obtaining the supply information.

Referring to operation of accepting a request for obtaining supply information is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The operation of may be performed by the CPU according to the printer application program at S of . Further in this example the request for obtaining supply information is assumed to be issued by a display module of the outside process .

Upon receiving the request for obtaining supply information from the display module at S the request response processor of the information manager module may start the process of accepting the request.

S determines whether a request for obtaining supply information has been received from the display module before receiving the request received at S for example by checking information stored in a request management table. The request management table stores identification information for identifying a request and identification information for identifying a calling process that sends the request in a corresponding manner. If the request has been received from the display module YES at S the operation ends to proceed to S of . In such case the request currently received is not accepted such that updating of the supply information is not performed. If the request has not been received from the display module NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S accepts the request for obtaining supply information. At this time identification information for identifying the request and identification information for identifying the calling process that has sent the request i.e. the display module may be stored in the request management table.

S determines whether the process of updating supply information stored in the shared memory is being performed. When the process of updating supply information is being performed YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When the process of updating supply information is not being performed NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S starts the process of updating supply information which may be performed in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to .

S determines whether the process of updating supply information is completed. If the process of updating supply information is completed YES at S the operation proceeds to S. If the process of updating supply information is not completed NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S determines whether a request for obtaining supply information is received from the outside process . When it is determined that the request is received YES at S the operation returns to S to repeat S to determine whether the request received at S has been received from the display module for example by checking the identification information stored in the request management table. When it is determined that the request is not received NO at S the operation returns to S. For example when the request detected at S is issued by the display module the request detected at S is not accepted. In this manner the number of requests issued by the same process or module may be suppressed or limited to one at a time. Alternatively when the request detected at S is issued by different processes or modules or different terminals the request detected at S is accepted to register the request in the request management table.

S sends the updated supply information to the display module in response to the request received at S. Alternatively S may send notification that updating is completed.

S determines whether there is one or more unprocessed requests by checking information stored in the request management table. If it is determined that there is one or more unprocessed requests the operation returns to S. If it is determined that there is no unprocessed request the operation ends.

The operation of may be performed in various other ways. For example when S determines that no request is received NO at S the operation may return to S. In another example when S determines that there is one or more unprocessed requests YES at S the operation may return to S to send the updated supply information obtained at S to the one or more unprocessed requests. Further in this example a plurality of requests stored in the request management table may be processed in the order of entry.

Referring to operation of printing supply information is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The operation of may be performed by the CPU according to the printer application program upon receiving the request for printing supply information. For example the operation panel of the printer may display the screen illustrated in . When the supply information list is selected from the screen of by the user the printer determines that the request for printing supply information is received.

S determines whether a printing job is currently being performed by the printer engine . S may be performed by the plotter manager of the system manager module . If no printing job is performed NO at S the operation proceeds to S. If a printing job is performed YES at S the operation proceeds to S.

S determines whether a memory space is available for example by checking the HDD or the RAM . If the memory space is available YES at S the operation proceeds to S. If memory space is not available NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S interrupts the printing job currently performed. At this time print data to be printed according to the printing job may be stored in a data spool area of the HDD or RAM . When the data spool area becomes full the operation may proceed from S to S.

S interrupts the printing job currently performed and switches the printer from the on line mode to the off line mode to prevent the printer from receiving additional print data.

S determines whether any portion of the print data has been printed out onto a tray as a toner image. If the print data has been printed out YES at S the operation proceeds to S. If the print data has not been printed out NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S obtains information regarding the tray to which the print data is printed out and selects a tray supply information tray to which a recording sheet having the supply information is to be printed out. For example S may be performed in a manner described below referring to .

S determines whether information regarding the tray to which the print data is printed out is obtainable. When it is determined that such information regarding the tray outputting the print data is obtainable YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When it is determined that information regarding the tray outputting the print data is not obtainable NO at S the operation proceeds to S without selecting the supply information tray such that the supply information tray will be automatically set to a default tray.

S determines whether the print data to be printed has been stored in the data spool area at S. When it is determined that the print data to be printed has been stored YES at S the operation proceeds to S to print the print data and the operation ends. When it is determined that no print data has been stored NO at S the operation proceeds to S to check the mode of the printer .

When the printer is in the off line mode YES at S the operation proceeds to S to switch from the off line mode to the on line mode to continue receiving the print data. When the printer is in the on line mode NO at S the operation ends.

As described above referring to since the printing job may be interrupted while the supply information is printed out the user may be notified the amount or status of the supply before completing the printing job. For example the user may be able to cancel the printing job when the supply information indicates that the supply is in the end state. In this manner the quality of the printed image may be kept high.

Referring to operation of selecting the supply information tray is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The operation of may be performed by the CPU according to the printer application program at S of .

S determines whether more than one tray is available to the printer . When there is only one tray available NO at S the operation proceeds to S. When there is more than one tray available YES at S the operation proceeds to S.

S selects a default tray as the supply information tray and activates a shifting function that causes the printer to discharge a recording sheet having the supply information on the default tray such that the edge of the recording sheet is shifted relative to the edge of a recording sheet having the print data. In this manner the user may easily recognize that the supply information is output even when the supply information is discharged onto the same tray to which the print data is discharged.

S determines whether a user select mode is selected for example by referring to the tray information stored in a nonvolatile memory of the printer as the print settings information. For example the user may previously select the user select mode which allows the user to select a supply information tray through the operation panel or the input device of the host apparatus or the terminal . When the user select mode is selected YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When the user select mode is not selected NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S allows the user to select a supply information tray by displaying a request for selecting one of the trays available to the printer on the operation panel or the output device of the host apparatus or the terminal . For example the operation panel may display a screen illustrated in to allow the user to select one of the trays as the supply information tray.

S automatically selects a tray other than the tray for outputting the print data as the supply information tray.

The operation of may be performed in various other ways. For example in alternative or addition to the above described options the printer may provide the user with the option of printing the supply information on a recording sheet having the type different from the type of the recording sheet having the print data. In this manner the user may easily recognize that the supply information is printed out.

Referring now to operation of printing supply information is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The operation of may be performed by the CPU according to the printer application program at S of .

S receives the request for printing supply information. For example the system management module may receive the request from the outside process through the UIAPI .

S creates a print thread. In this example the internal print module may function as the print thread.

S determines whether the print thread is successfully created. If the print thread is successfully created YES at S the operation proceeds to S to cause the internal print module to start the process of printing. If the print thread is not successfully created NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S performs printing preparation including for example selection of a supply information tray generation of a flame or setting various printing conditions.

S generates data supply information data to be printed which includes the supply information. For example the internal print module may generate the supply information data using the supply information which may be obtained through the character data obtainer and the print data obtainer in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to . In this example the supply information data may additionally include header data which may include time information obtained in a manner described below referring to . The time information which indicates the current date and or time may help the user to manage the supply information. For example by checking the time information the user may be able to estimate the degree of usage of the supply or timing when a new supply should be ordered.

S determines whether a request for canceling printing of the supply information is received from the user for example by referring to the print settings information that may be stored in a nonvolatile memory such as the RAM . Such information indicating whether to cancel printing may be written as flag information. When it is determined that the request for canceling is not received NO at S the operation proceeds to S to start printing the supply information. When it is determined that the request for canceling is received YES at S the operation proceeds to S to cancel printing of the supply information.

Alternatively at S the printer may display a screen illustrated in on the operation panel which includes a button that allows the user to cancel printing of the supply information while performing the printing operation. Upon detecting user selection of the cancel button the printer may cancel printing of the supply information while switching the display of the operation panel from the screen of to a screen of .

When printing is completed at S S sends notification to the outside process that the printing process is completed. Alternatively when printing is cancelled at S S may send notification that printing is cancelled. Alternatively when printing fails due to the error in creating the print thread NO at S S may send notification that an error is generated.

Referring to operation of obtaining time information to be included in the header data of the supply information data is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The operation of may be performed by the internal print module at S of .

S determines whether to include time information in the header data for example by referring to the print settings information. When it is determined to include the time information YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When it is determined not to include the time information NO at S the operation ends.

S determines whether a real time clock RTC circuit such as a timer is available to the printer to obtain the time information. When the RTC is available YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When the RTC is not available NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S determines whether a network time protocol NTP is available. When the NTP is available YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When the NTP is not available NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S requests the user to input the time information through the operation panel or the display device of the host apparatus or the terminal . For example the operation panel may display a screen illustrated in which requests the user to input the current date and time.

S determines whether the time information is input. When it is determined that the time information is input YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When it is determined that the time information is not input NO at S the operation ends to proceed to S of . In such case the time information is not included in the header data. Alternatively when it is determined that the time information is not input NO at S the operation may repeat S.

S obtains the time information which indicates a current date and or time to be included in the header data and the operation ends to proceed to S of .

Referring now to operation of printing supply information is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The operation of may be performed by the CPU according to the printer application program for example upon receiving a request for printing supply information.

S determines whether a printing job is currently being performed by the printer engine in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to S of . If no printing job is performed NO at S the operation proceeds to S. If a printing job is performed YES at S the operation proceeds to S.

S determines whether any portion of the print data has been printed out onto a tray according to the printing job. If the print data has been printed out YES at S the operation proceeds to S to determine whether the printing job is completed. If it is determined that the printing job is completed YES at S the operation proceeds to S. If it is determined that the printing job is not completed NO at S the operation repeats S.

At S if the print data has not been printed out according to the printing job NO at S the operation proceeds to S to interrupt the printing job. At this time the print data may be stored in a spool data area as described above referring to S of FIG. .

S determines whether the printing job is interrupted at S. When it is determined that the printing job is interrupted YES at S the operation proceeds to S to resume the printing job. When it is determined that the printing job is not interrupted NO at S the operation ends. S may be performed upon receiving a user instruction for resuming the printing job. Alternatively S may be performed after a predetermined time period passes after printing the supply information.

As described above referring to since the supply information is printed after completion of the printing job currently performed if the print data is printed out onto a tray the recording sheet having the supply information may be prevented from being mixed with the recording sheet having the print data.

The above described operation of printing supply information illustrated in or may be performed in various other ways. For example before interrupting the printing job currently performed at S of or S of the printer may allow the user to select whether to interrupt the printing job for example by displaying a selection key on the operation panel or the display device of the host apparatus or the terminal .

In another example before starting the operation of printing supply information upon receiving the request such as before S of or S of the printer may determine whether the user currently logged onto the system is authorized to print the supply information.

In one example printer may perform user authentication described below referring to S to S of when the access restriction information which is stored as the print settings information indicates to restrict access to the supply information. The access restriction information may be stored in a nonvolatile memory for example as flag information. When the authentication process determines that the user is allowed to access supply information the supply information may be printed in a substantially similar manner described above referring to or .

Alternatively the operation of S and S of may be performed before interrupting the printing job such as before S of . When the authentication process determines that the user is allowed to access supply information the supply information may be printed while interrupting the printing job in a substantially similar manner described above referring to . When the authentication process determines that the user is not allowed to access supply information the interrupted printing job may resume.

Referring to operation of printing supply information when access to the supply information is restricted is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention.

S requests the user to input user information such as a user name and a password through the operation panel or the display device of the host apparatus or the terminal . For example the printer may display a screen illustrated in to request the user to input the user name. Upon detecting the user input the printer may display a screen illustrated in to request the user to input the password. Upon detecting the user input the operation proceeds to S to start the process of authenticating the user using the user name and the password. At this time the printer may display a screen illustrated in . In this example the supply information and the print settings information may be prepared for each one of a first user group who has access to supply information and a second user group who does not have access to supply information. For the descriptive purpose the first user group and the second user group may be respectively referred to as an administrator and a general user. Using the user information the CPU determines whether the user currently logged onto the system is the administrator or the general user.

S determines whether the user has access to supply information according to the result generated at S. When it is determined that the user has access to supply information i.e. the user is the administrator YES at S the operation proceeds to S to print supply information in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to or . When it is determined that the user does not have access to supply information i.e. the user is the general user NO at S the operation proceeds to S.

S determines whether printing of the supply information is completed. When it is determined that printing is completed YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When it is determined that printing is not completed NO at S the operation repeats S. Additionally S may determine whether the current printing job which may be interrupted due to printing of the supply information is completed after it is determined that printing of the supply information is completed.

S deletes user information input at S and the operation ends. Alternatively S may automatically log off the user. By deleting the user information of the administrator the supply information that can be accessed only by the administrator may be prevented from being printed by the general user even when the administrator accidentally forgets to log off from the system. S may be performed at any timing after S.

When the user is the general user at S the printer may print a selected part of the supply information and the operation ends. Before ending the operation any interrupted printing job may be performed. For example the selected part of the supply information may contain information that can be disclosed to the general user which may be previously set by the administrator. In another example the selected part of the supply information may contain information that all users need to know such as notification that the supply is in the end state. The selected part of the supply information may be managed by using the print unprint information.

The operation of may be performed in various other ways. For example in alternative to printing the supply information at S the printer may allow the user to select whether to print the supply information for example by displaying a selection key on the operation panel or the display device of the host apparatus or the terminal .

In alternative to printing the supply information using the printer in another example the supply information may be printed out using an alternate printer other than the printer as long as the alternate printer is connected to the printer via a network such as via the LAN of . Referring to operation of printing supply information using the alternate printer is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention. The operation of may be performed after performing the process of printing supply information described referring to which may be performed at S of or S of .

After performing the process of printing the supply information at S in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to S determines whether printing of the supply information fails for example by checking the printer engine . If it is determined that printing fails YES at S for example due to an error in the printer the operation proceeds to S. If it is determined that printing does not fail i.e. printing is successfully performed NO at S the operation ends. In such case the supply information is printed by the printer .

S searches for an alternate printer available for use. For example the printer may refer to an alternate printer table storing one or more alternate printers and select one printer from the alternate print table as the alternate printer. Selection may be made based on the availability of the alternate printer such that the alternate printer which is not currently performing a printing job may be selected. Alternatively the alternate printer which is located near the printer or near the administrator of the printer may be selected. In another example the printer may inquire one or more printers exited on the network for example when the alternate printer table is not available.

S determines whether user authentication is required for the user to print supply information using the alternate printer for example by referring to the access restriction information set for the alternate printer. When it is determined that access is restricted the operation proceeds to S to start the process of authenticating the user for example in a manner described above referring to S to S of . S determines whether to allow the user to print supply information using the alternate printer based on the result obtained at S. When the authentication process of S determines that the user is allowed to print using the alternate printer YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When the authentication process of S determines that the user is not allowed to print using the alternate printer NO at S the operation proceeds to S. S notifies the user that printing of the supply information is not performed for example by displaying a notification message or an error message on the operation panel or the display device of the host apparatus or the terminal . Alternatively S may allow the user to print a selected part of the supply information in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to S of .

When it is determined that access is not restricted for the alternate printer or the authentication process determines that the user is allowed to print using the alternate printer the operation proceeds to S to connect the printer to the alternate printer.

S determines whether connection is successfully established. When it is determined that connection is successfully established YES at S the operation proceeds to S to start transferring the supply information data to the alternate printer. When it is determined that data transfer is completed YES at S the operation proceeds to S to cause the alternate printer to start printing a supply information list including the supply information obtained from the printer . In this example the supply information list may additionally include information regarding the printer such as the identification information of the printer . Such identification information may be printed in the header.

When it is determined that printing of the supply information is completed YES at S the operation proceeds to S to determine whether notification is required. When it is determined that notification is required YES at S the operation proceeds to S to notify the printer that printing is completed. Alternatively at S the alternate printer may notify a selected user such as an administrator that printing of the supply information is completed. In such case the alternate printer may send an email including a notification message to the selected user. The notification message may include information regarding the printer that requests the alternate printer to print the supply information and information regarding the alternate printer that actually prints the supply information.

The operation of may be performed in various other ways. For example before searching for the alternate printer at S the printer may determine whether alternate printing is available for use for example by referring to the alternate printing activation information. The alternate printing activation information may be stored as the print settings information in the form of flag information. When the alternate printing is activated the printer may connect to the alternate printer to print supply information. In such case the operation may proceed to S. When the alternate printing is not activated the printer does not connect to the alternate printer to print supply information. In such case the operation ends.

In another example before searching for the alternate printer at S the printer may determine whether alternate printing is restricted for example by referring to the alternate printing restriction information indicating whether to allow the user to connect to the alternate printer. The alternate printing restriction information may be stored in a nonvolatile memory for example as flag information. When the alternative printing restriction information indicates to allow alternate printing the printer may perform the user authentication process as described above referring to S to S of . When the authentication process determines that the user is allowed to use the alternate printer the operation may proceed to S to search for the alternate printer. In such case the authentication process performed to determine whether the user has access to the supply information which may correspond to S S and S may not be performed. When the authentication process determines that the user is not allowed to use the alternate printer the operation proceeds to S.

In another example when it is determined that connection fails at S NO at S the operation may return to S to search for an alternate printer other than the alternate printer previously selected at S.

As described above the supply information may be printed at any desired timing. Referring to operation of printing supply information when an error is detected in the printer is explained according to an example embodiment of the present invention.

S determines whether the error detected in the printer relates to the supply of the image forming device. When it is determined that the error relates to the supply YES at S the operation proceeds to S. When it is determined that the error does not relate to the supply NO at S the operation ends.

S determines whether printing of the supply information when the error is detected is required for example by referring to the print settings information indicating whether to print the supply information at the time when an error is generated such as the error print unprint information. When it is determined that printing is required YES at S the operation proceeds to S to print the supply information for example in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to . When it is determined that printing is not required NO at S the operation ends.

The operation of may be performed in various other ways. For example the printer may be set to automatically print the supply information when the error relating to the supply is detected by assignation a predetermined value to the error print unprint information. In another example the print settings information indicating whether to require printing may be stored independently for each one of the selected number of supplies. For example the error print unprint information indicating whether to print the supply information at the time of error may be stored for each one of the selected number of supplies. In another example instead of referring to the printing settings information to determine whether to print the supply information the printer may allow the user to select whether to print for example by displaying a selection key on the operation panel or the display device of the host apparatus or the terminal when the error is detected.

Numerous additional modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the disclosure of this patent specification may be practiced in ways other than those specifically described herein.

For example elements and or features of different illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

In another example any one of the above described functions or operations may be performed by the printer may be partially performed by a supply information manager. For example the supply information manager may be implemented by any desired information processing apparatus such as a general purpose computer including a processor. In such case the processor of the supply information manager may perform a desired operation according to the printer application program described above referring to or . Referring to assuming that the terminal functions as the supply information manager the terminal receives supply information from each one of the plurality of image forming apparatuses and collectively referred to as the image forming apparatus and stores the supply information in a corresponding manner with identification information of the image forming apparatus . Additionally the terminal may store display settings information. At predetermined timing the terminal may generate a supply information list including the supply information being stored according to print settings information and causes the image forming apparatus to print the supply information list on a recording sheet. The image forming apparatus for printing the supply information list may be selected by the terminal for example in a substantially similar manner as described above referring to S of .

Further as described above any one of the above described and other methods of the present invention may be embodied in the form of a computer program stored in any kind of storage medium. Examples of storage mediums include but are not limited to flexible disk hard disk optical discs magneto optical discs magnetic tapes involatile memory cards ROM read only memory etc.

Alternatively any one of the above described and other methods of the present invention may be implemented by ASIC prepared by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits or by a combination thereof with one or more conventional general purpose microprocessors and or signal processors programmed accordingly.

