---

title: Use of three-dimensional data center to support servicing external operations
abstract: A solution for supporting servicing an outsource operation(s) using a three-dimensional (3D) data center is provided. In particular, a solution is provided in which a 3D data center is created from aggregating information technology (IT) resource data received from a plurality of outsourced operation locations that may be geographically or task distributed amongst multiple IT service providers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08259099&OS=08259099&RS=08259099
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08259099
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070517
---
This application is related in some aspects to commonly owned patent application Ser. No. 11 747 147 entitled HOLOGRAPHIC ENTERPRISE NETWORK filed May 10 2007 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This application also is related in some aspects to commonly owned patent application Ser. No. 11 747 157 entitled VIRTUAL NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTER filed May 10 2007 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This application also is related in some aspects to commonly owned patent application Ser. No. 11 747 182 entitled MANAGEMENT OF ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS AND APPLICATIONS USING THREE DIMENSIONAL VISUALIZATION TECHNOLOGY filed May 10 2007 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This application also is related in some aspects to commonly owned patent application Ser. No. 11 750 216 entitled USE OF A THREE DIMENSIONAL 3 D DATA CENTER TO SHARE SERVICE OPERATIONS filed concurrently herewith the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The invention relates generally to the outsourcing of operations and more particularly to the use of a three dimensional data center to support servicing outsourced operations.

As the global economy grows so too has the advent of companies outsourcing part or all of their operations typically due to costs. With outsourcing however comes the concomitant reduction in insight and control by the company of the operation s that have been outsourced. This is frequently done in the area of information technology IT services. Companies attempt to address these shortcomings with various approaches including meeting more frequently with the service provider for status updates dedicating company resources e.g. personnel to work physically alongside in the datacenter that the operation s is outsourced to and or creating customized software to measure the service provider s progress.

With all of these approaches come drawbacks. For example with more frequent meetings often the company that has outsourced their operation s wants even more status and or deeper insight to the outsourced task s than the meetings accord. Allocating company people to work e.g. monitor manage etc. alongside the working outsource operations is costly. With customized software e.g. IT Dashboard developed and defined at the start of the outsourcing engagement often becomes obsolete over the time that the oursourcing is conducted.

Accordingly a need exists for a solution that addresses at least one of the aforementioned shortcomings in resource outsourcing.

Aspects of the invention provide a solution for supporting servicing an outsource operation s using a three dimensional 3D data center is provided. In particular a solution is provided in which a 3D data center is created from aggregating information technology IT resource data received from a plurality of outsourced operation locations that may be geographically or task distributed amongst multiple IT service providers.

A first aspect of the invention provides a method of servicing an outsourced operation the method comprising receiving information technology IT resource data from a plurality of outsourced operation locations wherein the IT resource data includes elements that the outsourced operation is managing aggregating the IT resource data from the plurality of outsourced operation locations creating a three dimensional simulation of the aggregated IT resource data and using the three dimensional simulation to service the outsourced operation.

A second aspect of the invention provides a system for servicing an outsourced operation the system comprising a system for receiving information technology IT resource data from a plurality of outsourced operation locations wherein the IT resource data includes elements that the outsourced operation is managing a system for aggregating the IT resource data from the plurality of outsourced operation locations a system for creating a three dimensional simulation of the aggregated IT resource data and a system for using the three dimensional simulation to service the outsourced operation.

A third aspect of the invention provides a computer program comprising program code stored on a computer readable medium which when executed enables a computer system to implement a method of servicing an outsourced operation the method comprising receiving information technology IT resource data from a plurality of outsourced operation locations wherein the IT resource data includes elements that the outsourced operation is managing aggregating the IT resource data from the plurality of outsourced operation locations creating a three dimensional simulation of the aggregated IT resource data and using the three dimensional simulation to service the outsourced operation.

A fourth aspect of the invention provides a method of generating a system for servicing an outsourced operation the method comprising providing a computer system operable to receive information technology IT resource data from a plurality of outsourced operation locations wherein the IT resource data includes elements that the outsourced operation is managing aggregate the IT resource data from the plurality of outsourced operation locations create a three dimensional simulation of the aggregated IT resource data and use the three dimensional simulation to service the outsourced operation.

The various aspects of the invention can be implemented as part of a business method for managing the servicing of an outsourced operation in which payment is received in return for implementing utilizing and or managing aspects of the invention.

The illustrative aspects of the invention are designed to solve one or more of the problems herein described and or one or more other problems not discussed.

Embodiments of this disclosure are directed to a solution for using a three dimensional 3D data center to support servicing outsourced operations. The visual representations of the information technology IT elements includes items such as servers racks networking equipment cabling and power and cooling whereas software elements are visualized in terms of the structure of the underlying software or in logical terms of their business function. These elements are structurally organized into a 3D simulation such as a virtual data center. This virtual data center provides platform s for equipment observation decks and catwalks display screens and various infrastructures such as the in world communications gear.

Aspects of the present invention ultimately allow the servicing of outsourced operations regardless of whether the outsourced operations are serviced e.g. managed by one two or a multitude of service providers e.g. vendors located in geographically distributed locations throughout the globe and or task distributed to multiple locations and or outsource operation providers. The user e.g. client other vendors etc. ultimately through the use of the 3D simulation e.g. data center is able to service e.g. monitor manage and operate the various outsourced operations e.g. IT operations from the central location of the 3D simulation e.g. data center .

The 3D simulation allows a client to check status metrics and or implementation of the various outsourced operations at will and in near real time. The 3D representation is kept up to date because it mirrors the physical IT assets e.g. machines software cabling processes etc. that are being used to run the outsourced operation. The 3D simulation e.g. data center is connected with the plurality of physical data centers hosting the outsourced operations with software monitoring the physical machines software and or IT processes that the service provider e.g. vendor is using for the outsourced operations. The software aggregates the disparate sources of data applies logic to the data so as to render 3D simulations that are easy to understand and manipulate.

A holographic enterprise interface is deployed at outsourced operation location . In one embodiment the holographic enterprise interface is a plugin based component where the plugins connect to the system management software or more specifically to each of the back end enterprise systems. In operation the holographic enterprise interface transforms information from the application programming interfaces of the back end enterprise systems into event data which is subsequently dispatched to the manager of the holographic enterprise interface . In one embodiment the plugins are subclassed from a plugin base class which contains interfaces for managing the plugin instances.

The plugin manager within the holographic enterprise interface routes the plugin generated events to the underlying communications systems within the holographic enterprise interface. The plugin manager also parses an XML configuration file that is the plugin descriptor defining what plugins to load. The communications system within the holographic enterprise interface contains components for encoding event data from the plugins into a Holographic Protocol Architecture. The Holographic Protocol Architecture HPA is a protocol specification that defines packet types and conversation patterns necessary to interact with a 3D simulation e.g. data center via a communications network and gateway . The HPA comprises a packet header detailing the packet type 4 bytes sequence number 2 bytes total packets 2 bytes and a location id 2 bytes .

After the packet header is a tuple based data payload of varying length based on constraints that may be introduced by the underlying transport. The communications system within the holographic enterprise interface includes a protocol handler that encodes the data from an event system into the HPA. It also decodes the protocol and dispatches events to plugins when receiving communications from the 3D simulation e.g. data center . In addition there is a packet driver that uses a pluggable cipher component to encrypt the packet. It then interfaces with a pluggable transport provider such as XML RPC to dispatch the communications to the 3D simulation e.g. data center .

The following configuration enables the 3D simulation e.g. data center to operate in synchronous or asynchronous mode with the holographic interface element depending on the underlying transport. In synchronous mode queuing mechanisms are used to batch transmissions inbound to the holographic interface element from the 3D simulation e.g. data center . In the event of a stateless synchronous transport the queued data is encoded into the response to the XML RPC call and processed by the communications system within the holographic interface element .

The 3D simulation which in one embodiment is a IT data center that structurally organizes IT elements of the plurality of outsourced operation locations into a 3D space. Although shows the 3D simulation separate from the outsourced operation locations the 3D simulation may exist at one of the location or at another third party location such as a hosting provider.

In any event the detailed operation of the elements including elements through are not described in detail herein in the interest of brevity. A more detailed description is provided in the common assigned cross referenced related applications. In any event the outsourced operation locations may be each distributed either by task and or geographically. For example a first location may be operated by a first IT service provider that specializes in a single aspect of IT expertise e.g. networking . Conversely at a second location an IT service provider may be servicing another aspect of IT for the client e.g. applications . As shown in at each location one or more elements e.g. IT storage system computer systems network systems and or applications may be service by an outsourced operation. Each location may be geographically dispersed or not. In any event the aggregator may monitor one of the IT elements.

In any event from the elements IT resource data is received. IT resource data may comprise receiving status of one of physical machines software and or processes of the outsourced operation checking metrics of the outsourced operation and or implementing an operation of the outsourced operation. The implementing step allows a client user to via the use of the 3D simulation to service e.g. operate manage direct etc the physical IT elements at the various outsourced operation locations regardless of whether they are operated by one or a plurality of outsource operators e.g. vendors . The status may comprise one of utilization of a server memory usage of a server and or the number of transactions an application is supporting. Similarly the metric may comprise one of response time of an application and availability measurement of an application. In this manner a user e.g. client may more readily support servicing outsourced operation s .

The foregoing flow chart shows some of the processing functions associated with the 3D simulation . In this regard each block represents a process act associated with performing these functions. It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in the figure or for example may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or in the reverse order depending upon the act involved. Also one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that additional blocks that describe the processing functions may be added.

In another embodiment of this disclosure the 3D simulation e.g. data center could be used as a service to charge fees for servicing an outsourced operation using a 3D data center. In this embodiment the provider of the 3D simulation e.g. data center or even the system could offer these systems as a service by performing the functionalities described herein on a subscription and or fee basis. In this case the provider can create deploy maintain support etc. the 3D simulation e.g. data center or the system that performs the processes described in the disclosure.

In still another embodiment the methodologies disclosed herein can be used within a computer system to service a plurality of outsourced operations using a 3D data center. In this case the system including the 3D simulation e.g. data center can be provided and one or more systems for performing the processes described in the disclosure can be obtained and deployed to a computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as a computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the infrastructure to enable the infrastructure to perform the process actions of the disclosure.

In the computing environment there is a computer which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with an exemplary computer include but are not limited to personal computers server computers thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The exemplary computer may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that performs particular tasks or implements particular abstract data types. The exemplary computer may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in the computer in the computing environment is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

The computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

In the system memory includes computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as ROM . A BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on by processor .

Computer may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are each connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces .

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks RAMs ROM and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including by way of example and not limitation an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of the system shown in for supporting servicing an outsourced operation using a 3D data center.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through optional input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish serial port scanner camera or the like. These and other input devices are connected to the processor unit through a user input interface that is coupled to bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

An optional monitor or other type of display device is also connected to bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers which may be connected through output peripheral interface .

Computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote server computer . Remote computer may include many or all of the elements and features described herein relative to computer .

Logical connections shown in are a local area network LAN and a general wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to LAN via network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN . The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism.

In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the personal computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on a memory device of remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

An implementation of an exemplary computer may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also includes any information delivery media.

The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

It is apparent that there has been provided with this disclosure an approach for management of enterprise systems and applications using three dimensional visualization technology. While the disclosure has been particularly shown and described in conjunction with a preferred embodiment thereof it will be appreciated that variations and modifications will occur to those skilled in the art. Therefore it is to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

