---

title: Universal gates for ising TQFT via time-tilted interferometry
abstract: Experiments suggest that the mathematically weakest non-abelian TQFT may be physically the most robust. Such TQFT's—the v=5/2 FQHE state in particular—have discrete braid group representations, so one cannot build a universal quantum computer from these alone. Time tilted interferometry provides an extension of the computational power (to universal) within the context of topological protection. A known set of universal gates has been realized by topologically protected methods using “time-tilted interferometry” as an adjunct to the more familiar method of braiding quasi-particles. The method is “time-tilted interferometry by quasi-particles.” The system is its use to construct the gates {g1, g2, g3}.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07427771&OS=07427771&RS=07427771
owner: Mircosoft Corporation
number: 07427771
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071119
---
In Quantum invariants of 3 manifolds and quantum computation BK Bravyi and Kitaev constructed a universal set of gates g g g for the Ising TQFT the principle component of the Moore Read model for

For a laboratory device the relevant space time should embed in R R. It seems almost certain that simply adding this constraint to the Bravyi Kitaev context prevents the construction of a complete gate set. However if a certain assumption is added to their model i.e. that the topological changes 1 and can be distinguished on a simple framed loop in space time then g g g may be realized in 2 1 dimensions. Projecting to the charge sectors 1 and extends the discussion of Topologically Protected Qubits from a Possible Non Abelian Fractional Quantum Hall State by Das Sarma Freedman and Nayak DFN in which interferometry was proposed to distinguish the 1 and changes. By an extension of DFN an interferometry measurement should be able to resolve the identity into the sum of three projectors 1d circumflex over 1 circumflex over circumflex over . A further generalization however is needed.

A logical gate for a quantum computer can be achieved by forming a Polyakov loop in the space time of a fractional quantum Hall effect FQHE fluid and determining a charge on the Polyakov loop. Time tilted interferometry provides a mechanism by which to measure charge on Polyakov loops which extend over time and cannot be deformed into a single time slice. Measuring charge on Polyakov loops is equivalent to using exotic topologies as in BK. The jump from the physically impossible world of BK to the physically possible world is the recognition that measuring the charge on the Polyakov loops is the equivalent of BK s exotic topologies. Thus a probabilistic realization of BK s gates can be achieved with enough fidelity to be tantamount to a realization of BK s gates.

To break the fluid a current may be injected at the first antidot at a first time. The voltage may be turned on at a later time to create a gap thus beginning the formation of a Polyakov loop . The voltage may be removed at a still later time to heal the gap thus closing the Polyakov loop . The current may then be removed to ground and measured. Measurement of the output current will cause the particle to converge to an eigenstate i.e. 1 or . If the measured current is relatively high then the Polyakov loop is in a first state e.g. 1 or . If the measured current is relatively low then the Polyakov loop is in a second state e.g. 1 or respectively .

By adding gammas one can determine whether a 1 or particle is in the Polyakov loop. It should be understood that there may never really be an epsilon particle in the Polyakov loop but it behaves as if there is. Using time tilted interferometry one can determine whether the Polyakov loop is in a 1 state or and state.

There is no tunneling path when the fluid is broken. The fluid may be broken by increasing the voltage on a gate to separate the Hall bar into two smaller bars. It should be understood that an actual break in the fluid is not necessary. Any separation of the anti dots e.g. electrically or spatially so that no tunneling can occur is sufficient.

A particle can start to tunnel before the bar is broken linger between the antidots while the gap is present and get across to the other antidot after the gap is repaired. Likewise a particle can start to tunnel before the bar is broken and get past the area where the Polyakov loop is formed but have an amplitude such that it lingers on the other side of the loop until the gap is closed before getting to the second antidot.

It should be understood that there might be a classical electromagnetic contribution that needs to be calibrated out. That is classical phase shifts must be calibrated away. To calibrate the bar is not broken equivalent to having 1 particle which is no particle at all . The current drawn out to ground can be measured in the absence of a break in the fluid. Then the fluid can be broken a determination can be made as to whether anything changed as a result. If nothing changes then the particle is in a 1 state. If the current changes then the particle is in an state. Accordingly in operation if the measured current is the same as the calibrated current then the particle is in a 1 state. Otherwise the particle is in an state.

To realize gates gand gone must measure interference between paths and which cannot simultaneously be projected into any planar space time slice. The techniques described herein are analogous to a twinkling double slit experiment where the two slits rapidly open and close and though never simultaneously open produce an interference pattern. Such a technique may be referred to as tilted interferometry since the loop may have the property that it cannot be deformed into any single time slice and so is tilted in space time. It has been suggested that tilted interferometry is analogous to the second electric Arharonov Bohm effect where case A must vary in time as the particle passes. As described below the domain of the FQHE fluid will vary in time. It should be understood that interferometry may not be possible along any knotted loop but only fairly simple s are necessary. To build the gates gand g the link along which interferometry is done has only one local max min per component i.e. is the plat of a pure braid. The third gate g is a simple braid generator and requires no discussion here.

We ignore the U 1 semion charges and the classical B A phase to concentrate our attention on the more interesting nonabelian Ising charges 1 and that is trivial spin and spin 1. Using the Kauffman rules 

Formally these three outcomes for x 1 are quite distinct. Up to now we have here only considered the tunneling current. One would also expect a smaller temperature dependent contribution from tunneling which would have to be added to the calculations above. There would be terms case 1 1. case and 2. case 0 3. respectively. In any case there is ample independence to expect a relatively simple interferometry measurement around x to project into one of the three sectors 1 or .

If a simple loop lies in a FQHE liquid at time t we may project onto particle states 1 or along by an experiment which is a geometric distortion of but topologically identical to . depicts a plane filled with FQHE fluid except for two distorted anti dots Dand D. The asterisks represent quasi particles. If we could measure the tunneling current between them and vary area A as we do so we project to a collective charge 1 or along . The experiment suggested by is not tilted but describable within a time slice.

Let us now take up tilted interferometry with particles. The basic ideas is that we expect technological limitations to confine us to planar puddles of FQHE fluids at any times slice i.e. no overpasses . Just as with MOSFET technology planarity can be a severe constraint. But suppose a band of material e.g. FQHE fluid A is blocking a new band B which we wish to construct might we break A allow B to pass use B for whatever purpose break B and then reconstitute A If we could measure the charge around the resulting time like hole in A see and if we found charge 1 it would be as far as SU 2 Chern Simons theory were concerned as if A were never broken.

In this vein consider the resistance between anti dots Dand Dcontained in A over a period of time in which A is broken and rejoined. If this time A is broken is comparable to the tunneling time between Dand D and various delays such as tortuous contours of the FQHE fluid might be employed to achieve this then the resistance should depend on differences between the upper and lower tunneling trajectories as in . We suppose here that the experimental set up is such that current is injected into Dnear tthen withdrawn from Dnear time t.

We turn to the types of measurement needed to yield gates gand g. In designing a gate might become complicated needing to avoid some regions of space time and pass through others. In principle might be a knotted in 2 1 space time. Fortunately we only will need to measure the topological charge on a loop with one max and one min in space time or a multi loop where each component simultaneously shares this property .

For a simple loop on the boundary of 2 1 space time the projection into change super selection sectors

Let us consider the physical meaning of the framings on the Polyakov loop is and how it might be dictated. First how do we think of a tunneling particle As a Brownian path or a smooth arc In the former case it might be impossible to assign a framing number but energy considerations and the finite size of quasi particles suggest that we should think that most of the amplitude across a tunneling junction is concentrated on the isotopy class of the obvious straight and zero framed arc across the junction. We assume that the quasi particles do not carry angular momentum while they tunnel.

A similar issue arises if we transport a quasi particle on a moving anti dot. How do we control the rotation of the quasi particle on the dot This question is crucial for without an answer there is no distinction between doing titled interferometry on with framing 1 1 and interferometry on 0 . We will need to control the framing of the space time arcs along which we transport antidots. A possible answer is to create an asymmetry e.g. a tear drop shaped anti dot so that it has a natural base point to record rotation. Whether this is another gimmick such as using an impurity on an edge to serve as a base point can control framing seems to depend on the detailed local physics and not be accessible from the effective low energy description so lies outside the scope of this description. However exercising experimental control of the framing along the legs of the interferometer appears to be an essential requirement.

Interferometry depends on maintaining a superposition among possible tunneling events. It will be challenging to avoid measurement as the geometry and or position of Din the FQHE fluid is changed but we see no fundamental reason that this should not be possible. It has been suggested that a bucket brigade of anti dots may be easier to implement than electro statically moving an anti dot. These approaches should be functionally equivalent.

The representation depicted in follows from the braiding rules of the Ising TQFT. This gate requires no interferometry of any kind it is simply a braid matrix. Unfortunately the braid matrices in the Ising TQFT define discrete subgroups of PSU N so we are forced to use interferometry or forbidden topology to complete the gate set.

First we recapitulate in a geometric language the BK description which involves time slices with overpasses i.e. FQHE fluids which cannot lie in the plane. Then we will rearrange the time coordinate and otherwise adjust the protocol so as we use only planar fluids in each time slice. The price will be the need to use titled interferometry to project onto SU 2 charge sectors along loops which are titled in space time.

The sum of the charges on the two resulting boundary components and is 1 or according to whether the charge along the overpass dotted loop is 1 or . This follows from the S matrices of the theory 

Ordinary untilted interferometry along projects into one of the states 1 or . We hope to be in the sector charge 1 and the probability of this is 0.5 because 1 and have equal quantum dimensions and therefore equal entropy. If we are disappointed we simply break the overpass and then reconstitute it. Breaking the overpass returns the qubit to its original state. This follows from a general principle which is described in the Appendix below that adding quantum media is reversible simply by deleting what was added whereas deleting quantum media is generally irreversible . Reconstituting the band yields an independent 0.5 chance of getting the desired trivial charge on . We repeat as necessary until charge 1 is observed. Now charge and charge are perfectly correlated charge charge and charge 1 or charge 1.

So far we have been manipulating the pants P supporting the control qubit. Now take the controlled qubit and pass it as a body around see . The skein relations shown in tell us that the controlled qubit picks up a phase of 1 if it is in state and is unchanged if it is in state 1. Finally cut the overpass to return the two pants to their original position. The effect is g. summarizes our reorganization of g. For clarity is reproduced expect for the detour through in the slices in . To avoid clutter we omitted an additional boundary component made from the space time histories of the edges of an anti dot D that divides into Dand D which moves and later merges back into D as shown in .

In we do ordinary interferometry along the curves and tilted interferometry along D time D time t t. In other words we begin forming the overpass band B but now in space time and send the controlled qubit q down the band B as it is found. After a time the right puncture of the pants supporting the control qubit qsplits and we measure the SU 2 charge along hoping to observe 1. This would mean that the channel diagonal in through which the band B is traveling does not disturb the structure of q.

There are four equally likely if we neglect energetics associated to electric charge topological charge splittings

First it is clear that the abortive attempts at building the band . . . to not affect the qubit q except possibly by an irrelevant overall phase splitting a into bcircle around x c and then re fusing results in the original particle type is a multiple of the ideality. The control qubit qis clearly unaffected since the phase of the operator represent by the insert drawing is independent by locality of the state 1 or of the overall qubit q.

Perhaps more serious is the fact that the anti dots Dand Dmust be threaded along with q through the band B. Dand Dshould be kept outside tunneling range and the two charges inside the pants Pcarrying qmust not be fused. This implies some geometric constraints. Clearly the size of the pants Psupporting qmust be enlarged relative to the pants Psupporting qbefore qcan be used to control the phase of q. This will be only one of many technological challenges.

With this example of a gate implementation in hand it makes sense to discuss the general strategy and fundamental principles involved. The general 3 manifold M with boundary does not imbed in R R R but after puncturing M by removing a collection of proper arcs M M arcs will imbed. If the linking circle to a puncturing arc is measured to have charge 1 then the puncture is irrelevant at least within an SU 2 Chem Simons theory . Thus the strategy is to find some protocol of puncturing and measuring which reduces the topologically intricate gates of BK to a sequence of planar time slices.

Suppose a pair of s is pulled out of the vacuum and then fused. They will annihilate. If however after their births the fluid is cut to separate them all correlation is lost. If the fluid is then rejoined and the s fused the results will be 1 with probability and with probability see . Similarly since the S matrix entry S 0 two simply linked trajectories cannot occur in a box of space time fluid but can occur if only part of the box is filled with 5 2 s fluid see .

The preceding discussion applies only to the SU 2 sector of the theory. We have been suppressing the fact that CFT modeling

Our proposed implementation of gclosely follows this 3 step description. To understand the protocol refer back to . Most of the figure depicts activity on P with the second pants Pbeing threaded through a passage roughly from southeast to northwest. Since gis a 1 qubit gate we dispense entirely with P instead we thread two unlinked loops with framing 1 and through this channel as sketch to be overlain on . We will need to use tilted interferometry to measure and . Thus each i 1 2 consists of a moving anti dot Dcarrying a particle accompanied by companion anti dots D and D moving or in bucket brigade with a well defined base point determining framing 1 . The role of Dis to carry a meridional charge while tunneling t t is measured between D and D .

We have added a new feature we have assumed that in preparing the anti dots D that we can pull out of the vacuum and later annihilate at pair of s these have an electrostatic

Ignoring the measurements . . . which create the 1 labeled passage between the inner punctures of P as in we must execute three titled measurements along and . We have just shown that in all cases the outcomes for charge and charge are independent and either 1 or . We previously verified charge 1 or . From this it will follow that the protocol produces

It should be understood that in terms of BK measuring charge as in corresponds to measuring the charge on of . Measuring the charges on and correspond to the double Dehn twist in a manner which will now be described.

As described above projection to charge sectors on a loop does not become well defined or even the eigenspaces themselves until has a normal framing. If the physical Hilbert space V T for a torus T is V span 1 in the longitudinal basis L if we wish to transform to the framing k basis L kM longitude k meridian we must compute as follows 

The curves and have been described as having framing 1 this means the tip of the frame vector links 1 with its base as it moves around the loop and that k above is 1. It is a fundamental identity of the Kirby calculus that 1 framed surgery on a simple linking circle imparts a 1 Dehn twist as depicted in .

The meaning of surgery as that term is used herein is that a tubular neighborhood of the loop is deleted and then glued back so that the meridian disk is glued to the circle defined by the tip of the frame vector. Obviously we can neither twist nor surger Gallium Arsenide but if we measure the particle content of a framed loop in the interior of a 2 1 dimensional space time and the result is 1 we have up to an overall normalization factor corresponding to capping a 2 sphere accomplished surgery on as far as Chern Simons theory is concerned. Similarly if we measure a nontrivial particle or we have still done a kind of surgery but now the reglued solid torus has a particle Polyakov loop or resp. running along its core. This is Z solid torus Polyakov loop V T expressed in meridinal basis.

From the S matrices we know that w.r.t. the labeling in charge 1 iff charge charge 1 and charge iff charge charge . Thus the nontrivial phase arises in the upper left or lower right entry of our gate matrix according to whether charge 1 or .

In translating between corresponds to untwisted copies of the s 0 and 0 . Measuring 1 and 1 results in a squared Dehn twist around a with two Polyakov loops appearing labeled by some particle type 1 or but not parallel to say at and in a product structure.

The Polyakov loops cannot carry since STS square root over 2 2 1 square root over 2 2 . Because two s must fuse to 1 only the total charge charge 1 charge 1 1 or is relevant to the action of the gate. There are two cases when charge charge 1 then charge 1 and the effect of an Polyakov loop can be localized as that of a core circle in annulus 0 1 where the boundaries of the annulus are labeled by 1 or . With either labeling the Polyakov loop contributes no additional phase. In contrast in the second case when charge charge and charge the localized model is an Polyakov loop at level in annulus 0 1 with boundaries labeled by see . In this case the Polyakov loop contributes a phase 1. The phase which the Polyakov loop adds to the identity product morphism is 11 1 and 1 Thus it has been shown that our protocol implements gor gaccording to whether charge charge 1 charge 1 1 or . The Effect of Adding or Deleting 1 Handles to Pants I.

The time history of adding and then breaking a band between the inner boundary components or a twice punctured disk P is topologically the addition of a 1 handle D D D D to P I call the result W P I 1 handle see . As shown in W is drawn with time Z coordinate since the add break procedure for the band B does not imbed in 2 1 dimensions.

While it is axiomatic that products correspond in a TQFT to identity morphisms it is a small calculation that W induces the identity rather than say a phase gate on the qubit supported on P. The general principle is that if a surface which bounds a 3 manifold is broken up into sub surfaces by particle labeled loops then the 3 manifold canonically specifies a vector in the tensor product of the relative physical Hilbert spaces.

Letting x 1 or for the outer label W specifies a vector in Vcircle around x Vcircle around x Vcircle around x Vcircle around x V circle around x V where the factors come from subsurfaces . . . in . The zero label in the first three factors is dictated by the presence of the disks in W capping the boundary of the first component a cylinder . The gluing axion W or T tells us that removing the 1 handle determines a canonical isomorphism to Z P I carrying to in V circle around x Vcircle around x Vcircle around x Vcircle around x Vcircle around x V circle around x V. After supplying the canonical base vectors V V and V is canonically identified with id . Hom V V circle around x V. Note that no x dependent phase has entered the calculation. Thus we have proved in the abstract language of TQFTs that adding and then breaking a band induces the identity operator on the qubit supported in P.

The situation is rather different if instead we cut out a band to join the internal punctures and then restore it. In other words fuse the internal punctures and then separate them. We will even assume that we can use the electric charge of the which we take to be

In particle flight Feynmann diagram notation is either or according to the charge of . certainly represents the identity acting on the P qubit. The operator given by is clearly diagonal in the 1 basis. To compute the phases of the diagonal entries we pair with the orthonormal exterior basis square root over 2 and use the Kauffman relations to extract expectation values. In case a we get 

Although not required the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface API for use by a developer or tester and or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers e.g. client workstations servers or other devices . Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers PCs automated teller machines server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. An embodiment of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an example system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data . RAM may contain other data and or program modules.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other client devices can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. An embodiment of the present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. The present invention may also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

Though the invention has been described in connection with certain preferred embodiments depicted in the various figures it should be understood that other similar embodiments may be used and that modifications or additions may be made to the described embodiments for practicing the invention without deviating therefrom. The invention therefore should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the following claims.

