---

title: Method and apparatus for certified secondary market inventory management
abstract: A certified secondary market inventory platform maintains a certified catalog of items for sale on a secondary market. Certified items are tracked by the platform and have a verified chain of custody between the manufacturer and the current owner. The certified catalog of items is presented anonymously, such that current owners of certified items are not revealed to potential buyers. Anonymity also extends to fulfillment, with shipment of a certified item to a buyer being performed without revealing the buyer and the current owner to each other. Verification of the chain of custody may, for example, include evidence such as a goods-received note corresponding to a shipment of the certified item from the manufacturer to the current owner, or a shipping notification from the manufacturer. A physical audit may also be conducted in association with publication of the certified catalog of items, as a pre-requisite for such publication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945487&OS=07945487&RS=07945487
owner: Arrow Electronics, Inc.
number: 07945487
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070329
---
This invention relates generally to secondary markets and more particularly to a system for publishing surplus and procuring shortage items in a secondary market.

Chronic errors in demand forecasting regularly leave companies throughout supply chains in various industries with either excess inventories or shortages. For example the management of electronic component inventory presents such problems. Companies currently resolve these imbalances by turning to the secondary market. In the secondary market buyers purchase components outside of both manufacturer direct and franchised distribution channels generally on an unscheduled basis. Because of the impossibility of inspecting each component sourced from the secondary market individual buyers do not have any protection. Particularly there is a great deal of fraud in the electronic component secondary market with either outright counterfeit items or refurbished items being fraudulently or unwittingly sold as new items. Other examples include chemicals pesticides automotive parts aerospace parts and medical supplies. These and other secondary markets are examples where fraud and related issues merit special caution when transacting in such markets.

Secondary markets are also typically very fragmented meaning that buyers and sellers must maintain corresponding contacts for different brokers and suppliers with various problems related to authentication information security and other issues. Moreover there is no suitable single location where buyers and sellers can easily make various inventory items available during periods of excess and seek available items during periods of shortage. Brokers are available for certain categories of parts but brokers also offer inconsistent results. As a result of this fragmented market companies must rely on individuals with potentially incomplete and inconsistent knowledge of the hodgepodge of contacts available to buy and sell items. Accordingly there is neither efficiency nor predictability in terms of buying and selling inventory items.

Still another problem is the need for anonymity. In a competitive marketplace companies have no interest in having competitors know of their inventory shortages or excesses. Knowledge of a shortage could easily be used to a competitor s advantage such as by purchasing parts to prevent the completion of corresponding customer orders. Similarly knowledge of excess may allow competitors to better appreciate a competitive landscape with the ability to adjust pricing or other marketing efforts accordingly.

Associated to the anonymity issue is the highly sensitive data that companies hold with regard to their inventory and corresponding management of that inventory. If a company were to allow an interface with a platform for buying and selling items an additional problem is the desire to protect this information and to keep it confidential.

Increasing usage of the Internet has created a variety of vehicles for buying and selling goods in secondary markets. Commonly known examples of these are EBay and StubHub. EBay is a well known platform where individuals or companies may list items for auction and sometimes immediate sale. StubHub is a similar platform specifically dedicated to event tickets. These platforms have built substantial searchable databases of items. However while these platforms are useful for individuals and certain other buyers and sellers of goods they are in no way adequate or acceptable for the purchase and sale of items in secondary markets where high levels of predictability authenticity and anonymity are sought in connection with competitive business activities. For example EBay is not an acceptable secondary market solution for large scale buyers and sellers of electronic components. For one there is virtually no predictability as to the quality or authenticity of these types of parts in an EBay type solution. There are certain features such as seller ratings and perhaps some level of guarantee for certain purchases but these do not address the need of buyers to have goods of known origin quality and status e.g. new refurbished . Sellers may assert such conditions but the responsibility rests with the seller and there is little or no ability to verify the authenticity of the goods or the corresponding seller representations.

Additionally the level of anonymity in these platforms is inadequate. Typically a buyer and seller are connected at the conclusion of an auction or purchase transaction with the seller being responsible to ship items directly to the buyer. Some mechanisms have been developed to allow sellers to generate and print shipping labels used to ship items but the seller still knows exactly to whom the items will be shipped. Thus even if the seller s information does not appear as the shipping address on the label which provides some protection for the seller the anonymity of typical auction or purchase portals remains inadequate.

Yet another problem with such solutions is that they do not present items in a fashion that allows efficient assessment of available inventory. This is particularly problematic in various secondary markets where parts can have a variety of corresponding identification numbers even if they are considered identical for the purpose of using them in certain applications such as is the case where different manufacturers provide an item . This means that searches require a hit or miss approach wherein items might be iteratively sought using a keyword or part number search strategy. Additionally searches typically require the buyer to sift through irrelevant hits and to repeat searches essentially from scratch where an initial effort to find a part fails or produces an exhaustive list with numerous irrelevant items shrouding the sought after items.

Finally none of these systems whether brokers or EBay type platforms offers any kind of true inventory management wherein a buyer or seller may organize inventory identify shortages and excesses and interface with a system to automatically address and resolve such shortages and excesses.

Accordingly what is needed is a platform that provides secondary market inventory management with access to items having certified authenticity. What is also needed is a platform that accommodates this while retaining anonymity not only with regard to the presentation of available inventory but throughout transaction fulfillment. What is also needed is a platform that attains these goals with a commonly accessible interface for presenting available inventory and reviewing the available inventory of others again in an anonymous fashion.

The present invention accommodates presentation of certified secondary market inventory and corresponding purchase and sale of the same.

In one embodiment this entails maintaining a certified catalog of items for sale on a secondary market wherein the certified catalog of items includes at least one certified item available from a current owner the certified item being associated with item identification information and having a verified chain of custody between the manufacturer of the certified item and the current owner. Available items in the certified catalog are presented anonymously such that the current owner of the certified item is not revealed to potential buyers. Once an item is selected for purchase the transaction is also fulfilled anonymously shipment of the certified item to the buyer without revealing the buyer and the current owner to each other in association therewith.

In one example verification of the chain of custody includes evidence comprising a goods received note corresponding to a shipment of the certified item from the manufacturer to the current owner. The evidence may also comprise a shipping notification from the manufacturer corresponding to the goods received note.

A physical audit may also be conducted in association with publication of the certified catalog of items which may be a pre requisite for such publication. The physical audit verifies the physical presence of the items and may also be used to obtain information useful for verifying the chain of custody. It may also involve highlighting information that could be used to identify the seller for subsequent removal upon shipment through platform initiated purchases.

Still further the presentation of certified items may implement dynamically updated search results corresponding to queries regarding published inventory items without requiring separate page loads.

The present invention can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

In connection with the presentation of available inventory items the CSMI platform is for example a clearing house for certified pre owned chips that are physically authenticated via interface to authentication provider as will be described further below.

The CSMI platform also interfaces with a member community which includes sellers and buyers . The community membership may vary depending upon the secondary market that the CSMI platform is operating in. In the example of the electronic component market members in the community may include but are not necessarily limited to Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs Contract Equipment Manufacturers CEMs Chip Makers CMs and others. Additionally certain members may participate both as buyer and seller such as an OEM. Other parties such as brokers would more appropriately participate only as buyers.

It is noted that references to buyers and sellers herein may actually be to the corresponding computer systems and functional software for performing the described activities. In that regard the CSMI platform and corresponding seller and buyer side functionality may be provided using any conventional computing infrastructure and corresponding foundational software. By way of example the CSMI platform may be configured for access through a network connection whether public private or a combination thereof including but not limited to a connection that involves the Internet. Similarly the CSMI platform may be variously accessible to access and provide information. For example the seller and buyer computing systems may use conventional operating systems and conventional browser based access to information on the CSMI platform . As will be described further below software may also be provided that allows the seller and buyer systems to interface and interpret if necessary information locally available through proprietary inventory management software e.g. SAP or Oracle as well as the CSMI platform .

According to one embodiment both the buyer and seller sides are equipped with CSMI Middleware to carry out certain functionality. The CSMI Middleware plays an important role in countering some of the business problems introduced above. For example the CSMI Middleware preferably resides within the firewall of the member community i.e. independently for respective members . This provides an additional layer of safety and security when interfacing with the CSMI platform . For example the CSMI Middleware can act as a member specific agent that assists or wholly participates in de sensitizing enterprise data as well as ensuring that the sensitized version of the enterprise data remains entirely confidential. The CSMI Middleware also acts as an automated trading channel between the buyers and sellers in the secondary market.

Although the implementation of middleware is believed to be advantageous for the noted reasons and therefore preferred it is noted that the present invention is not necessarily limited to embodiments that require or even implement a middleware solution. That is for example the functionality of inventory presentation and corresponding interfacing to convey excess inventory access available inventory and fulfill transactions could be performed using systems that implement a client side buyer seller that merely uses generic browsing or similar capability with the functionality described herein being entirely provided and performed on the server side i.e. by the CSMI platform . Alternatively the bulk of the functionality may be entirely present on the client side with appropriate data merely being uploaded to the CSMI platform to accommodate the presentation of information to other members. These and other possible solutions will be readily recognized by the ordinarily skilled artisan once instructed according to embodiments of the present invention.

With the CMSI platform sellers are accommodated access to a vehicle that allows the showcasing of surplus components to potentially interested buyers as soon as the components are identified as excess. This gives an opportunity for the sellers to sell their components without any further delays subject to staging to further authentication and data enrichment as described further below .

In conjunction with this the CSMI platform provides or interfaces with an authentication provider as described. This may be a physically implemented process that distinguishes and grades components depending upon where the seller procured the components from. This helps provides a level of authenticity certification that is not believed to be available in even a limited sense with any existing systems or practices for obtaining parts in a secondary market. This certification allows buyers to proceed with an assurance that the purchased components are genuine. At the same time sellers are much more likely to receive a fair market price for a component if it is certified. In one embodiment the CSMI Middleware accommodates component pricing by interfacing with appropriate corresponding systems and physical processes to ensure certification and to access prior sales data for the relevant components and corresponding grade. By linking items to original shipping and receiving records the CSMI Middleware uses historical information to authenticate the surplus components. Using these records chain of custody from the original manufacturer to the current owner is evidenced.

Preferably the CSMI Middleware allows the seller to analyze the grading and pricing information and seeks authorization of the seller before the components get published to interested buyers on the CSMI Platform . As the platform is used this becomes a continuous process which helps sellers move surplus items without the involvement of middlemen. And as noted the CSMI Middleware protects the sensitive data of the seller from exposure outside of the seller s firewall including other sellers buyers or even the CSMI Platform . This allows the seller to protect sensitive information such as specific pricing specific suppliers or vendors for particular items etc.

The CSMI Middleware also helps to reduce the procurement time for buyer members. This may be in the form of an automated process that pulls the components shortage forecast list from the buyer s ERP system. In conjunction with this the CSMI Middleware is in communication with the CSMI Platform that maintains the inventory or surplus components from the entire seller community. This allows a comparative match between the shortages and the corresponding available product list from the CSMI Platform with the result being directly publishable to the buyer on the client side behind the fire wall even before the shortage occurs with the opportunity to buy the available secondary market components to alleviate the looming shortage. In addition to being convenient and automated through access to the shortage information the CSMI Platform also reduces the time required to analyze the existing fragmented secondary market and removes additional trading channel participants from the procurement path in that the parts are purchased directly from the seller yet in an anonymous fashion to all parties .

Similarly the CSMI Middleware retrieves surplus inventory from the seller s ERP e.g. by a push or pull technique . With regard to this the CSMI Middleware may automatically certify components by authenticating them against ERP transactional data with a cross reference to an approved vendor list if desired. Still further the CSMI Middleware may differentiate the surplus components into grades. As described the CSMI Middleware may price the surplus components. This may be done by taking the transactional price details and calculating a list price to be published on the CSMI Platform . For example the list price might be a representative average based upon past sales data for that type of item. If desired a transaction fee may be included as well. Of course the CSMI Middleware may give sellers authority for the final approval of uploading the inventory into the CSMI Platform such as through an inventory list that may be viewed queried and approved on a per item per type or any basis . Upon approval the CSMI Platform updates its inventory listing accordingly of course actual publication may be done following staging conditions such as physical inspection and data enrichment as desired .

In one embodiment once the CSMI Platform stages new inventory items it authenticates the items as certified for sale prior to actually listing the components as being available. This may be performed through authentication wherein CSMI customer service representatives physically analyze the inventory list at seller s warehouse. Of course these representatives may be third party providers. Two classes of providers are audit companies such as SGS and Bureau Veritas and third party logistics providers such as BAX Global Exel Logistics YCH and others.

During the audit the items e.g. electronic components are physically verified counted packed and photographed. It should be noted that this step may apply to numerous items that will remain contained in their original packaging. For example a reel may contain thousands of resistors. There the reel is physically verified and photographed not necessarily each individual resistor. There the item is the reel of transistors. Also the term packed does not necessarily entail full packing for shipping purposes. It may merely be placement of the items in a plastic bag or the like for secure storage and segregation from other items. Again the packing may apply to numerous items together e.g. a reel of resistors . The onsite auditors will capture additional details about the component and send it back to the authentication interface . Here data cleansing and standardization may be performed to further integration with the CSMI Platform and corresponding presentation in the catalog of available components. This process ensures that the components ultimately on display at the platform are valued reasonably and qualitatively.

In one embodiment the storeroom audit pursuant to certification has three phases pre audit tagging bagging and image processing and posting. In the pre audit phase the seller has indicated a list of items to publish as described above. This information is accessed by the CSMI Platform and communicated to the authentication provider . In conjunction with this the list may be sanitized as necessary and relevant information such as the date by which certification must be provided is ascertained by the authentication provider . In the tagging bagging phase and a barcode SKU label unique to that item is affixed to each packaged item. Additionally any information on the original packaging that could be traced back to the seller is highlighted. This will allow the e.g. third party logistics provider to remove or obscure any such information during subsequent processes i.e. when the items are shipped . Additionally each item is digitally photographed bagged and returned to the shelf. Finally in the image processing and posting phase the authentication provider uploads images to an FTP site either hosted by the authentication provider or directly into the control of the CSMI Platform . Other information such as warehouse location may also be collected and uploaded at this time. All of the data is associated to the unique SKU described above. In conjunction with this the data corresponding to the uploaded images is staged for eventual posting to the catalog of available inventory on the CSMI Platform .

Finally the CSMI Platform interacts with a logistics service provider and payment processors to fulfill the transaction which will occur when a buyer member reviews the available catalog of items selects one or more for purchase typically large lots with electronics components and confirms a purchase through the CSMI Platform interface.

The logistics server provider provides logistical support in terms of cross docking the items and then shipping them. The cross docking aspect gets the items ready for anonymous shipment. This involves repackaging items to remove any indicia of the seller identity which is assisted by the highlighting of such information as described above and may also involve other requirements for getting the items ready for shipment e.g. shipper packaging requirements . Once the items are cross docked they are provided to the shipper e.g. by pick up or at a drop off location and shipped without identification of the seller to retain anonymity. The cross docking and shipping roles may be performed by a single entity that performs both cross docking and shipping services or by separate entities. Additionally a seller may participate in the cross docking role such as by making the items available and possibly other activities. The addressing to the buyer would be performed by another party to ensure anonymity.

Procedurally the CSMI Platform initially informs the seller that particular items that have been published in the catalog have been sold. This communication may be an e mail sent to a designated contact person at the seller or a communication that appears through the interface provided by the CSMI Middleware . This communications identification the sold item s and provides instructions to further preparation for shipment. These instructions may indicate the third party logistics provider that will cross dock the items or may simply instruct the seller in that regard. At the same time the CMSI Platform also sends the shipper a work order indicating the items to be picked up and the address of the buyer. Throughout the fulfillment process the unique SKU barcode tagged to the items are used to identify them track shipment etc. The seller is not indicated in the shipment to the buyer. Instead the address of the CSMI Platform service provider e.g. Verical Inc. may for example be indicated as the return address of the shipping party.

Payment may be variously accommodated. Generally one payment is made from the buyer to the CSMI Platform service provider and another payment is made from the CSMI Platform service provider to the seller with the unique SKU again being used to track the transaction.

The CSMI Platform service provider may variously associate fees with the transaction. In one example a service transaction fee to be paid by the buyer is associated with items listed in the catalog of available items. This may be a percentage amount that is added to the list price which may vary depending upon whom the buyer is. A shipping and or handling fee may also be charged to the buyer. This may be an automatically calculated fee based upon the amount of the order and the predicted weight of the order. Alternatively at least for the shipping fee the buyer may directly pay the shipper for the actual charges for the shipping services such as through provision of their shipper identification number. Actual payment to the CSMI Platform service provider may be made by credit card. Alternatively cash payment may be made on pre determined terms and conditions e.g. net due 15 days after shipment or delivery .

Transaction fees may also be accorded to the seller. For example the CSMI Platform service provider may pay the seller a percentage of the list price e.g. 85 . This percentage may alter depending upon factors such as seller identity e.g. large volume sellers may merit a better deal and items sold e.g. some items have markets that may mandate a smaller margin . Payment may also be variously made to the seller e.g. cash and may similarly be made on predetermined terms and conditions e.g. 30 days .

Referring first to the seller side CSMI Middleware is preferably provided as software executing on any conventional computing platform. In one embodiment the CSMI Middleware is a dashboard that is provided from with the ERP environment of the seller or buyer . Although one modular breakdown of the seller side CSMI Middleware is described it should also be understood that the described functionality may be performed using greater fewer or differently named modules.

The seller side CSMI Middleware comprises a price determination module and authentication management module an inventory publication module and an analytics and reporting module . The price determination module provides interfaces and corresponding information that allows the seller to assess and configure the listing price for items to be published. As described the list price for an item is a combination of the base price plus a transaction fee with the transaction fee varying depending upon factors such as component class e.g. passive component 10 memory 3 etc. transaction volume and service level agreement for the seller e.g. huge customer may dictate better terms . A default price may appear but the seller may set the price as desired. The seller is free to peruse the catalog to review the listing price for similar items as well. The seller can also review and set breakpoints i.e. the volume s at which discounts are provided . The CSMI Platform may provide uniform breakpoints for standardization of buyer experience and or the seller may be free to set their own breakpoints.

The authentication management module is preferably a database that associates generic security levels with certain conditions. For example the generic security levels may be bronze silver gold and platinum and the conditions may be an identification of vendor and the level of chain of custody evidence that is available for the items. This is only an example and various generic security level designations may be used. For example one through five stars may designate the levels with five star security being the highest. Other schemes involving colors numbers names etc. may of course be provided. The identification of the vendor is not communicated to the platform but is instead correlated to the generic security level and the generic security level is communicated to the platform in association with the items to be published.

For example if it is known that the vendor is the original manufacturer of the item e.g. Intel for certain computer chips then the generic security level is automatically set as a level such as the gold level but a sister level company or distributor would be accorded silver level status. The information about vendor identity may be provided to the Middleware through the seller s ERP system and the Middleware may use its database to correlate levels to seller identity. A given seller may also be of a certain level for some particular items and another level for other particular items. These and other criteria are provided in the database. The evidenced chain of custody also preferably factors in the determination of the security level. For example where the evidenced chain of custody includes an identification of the manufacturer a goods received note corresponding to shipment of the item from the manufacturer to the current owner and a manufacturer shipping notification corresponding to the goods received note then the item may be accorded platinum status.

The inventory publication module includes interfaces that accommodate a review of inventory to be published as well as final seller authorization to publish. Additionally the inventory publication module may communicate the status of inspection and verification for items staged for publication and corresponding requests for action and information in that regard.

The analytics and reporting module allows a review of price ranges for identical equivalent or similar parts to those being considered for publication as well as the ability to review the catalog and obtain corresponding information based upon part number queries or categorical searching. With regard to categorical searching the user may be provided with a navigable listing of categories and subcategories. With regard to the information that is made available in connection with a possible publication the CSMI Platform service provider may assign fees corresponding to the amount of information that is provided. For example a base functionality may allow review of identical part number pricing with higher level functionality providing more extensive and flexible price comparison information.

With reference to the buyer side CSMI Middleware is also preferably provided as software executable on any conventional computing platform. And similarly although one modular breakdown of the middleware is described the described functionality may be performed using greater fewer or differently named modules.

The buyer side CSMI Middleware comprises a shortage forecast module a shortage search request module a parts availability module and an analytics and reporting module .

The shortage forecast module provides interfaces through which information about a forecast shortage is conveyed to the user. This may be performed through communication with the materials resource planning MRP component of the ERP system. That MRP component helps companies to calculate the amount of parts that are used in satisfying existing orders how many will be needed to satisfy expected future orders etc. The MRP component thus generates a shortage list that is ported to the shortage forecast module . The shortage forecast module may also include interfaces that allow the user to manually update the default shortage listing which may be done where the user is familiar with conditions that are not yet available or reflected in the ERP system.

The shortage search request module communicates with the shortage forecast module to receive the default or customized shortage list and accommodates automatic generation of search queries for corresponding available items from the published catalog. The shortage search request module may include or refer to a database that associates identical equivalent or similar items. Communication of search information is preferably made through secure communications e.g. SSL or greater level of encryption and is not made available to the public.

Corresponding to such searches the parts availability module provides results corresponding to search requests. If desired rules can be set up to undertake automatic procurement if desired as well. The analytics and reporting module functionality is described with reference to the seller side functionality above and similarly provides interfaces and tools through which available parts may be reviewed. Interfaces useful for navigating among available parts provided by the various modules particularly the analytics and reporting module are described further with reference to .

Again the modular breakdown of the CSMI Platform is provided by way of example with the understanding that the described functionality may be provided with fewer greater or differently named modules. The CSMI Platform comprises an inventory presentation module a certified inventory management module a transaction fulfillment module a logistics management module and a payment processing module .

The inventory presentation module accesses the global listing of parts that are made available by the community of sellers. As described the unique SKU is used to identify and track items and this information is stored in association with each item listed for publication. When an item is uploaded by a seller for requested publication it is staged for publication. This may entail creation of a database entry for that item with flags indicating the status of physical authentication and any related staging issues. Once the physical authentication events have taken place any necessary confirmatory messages to the seller can be generated and the flag status can be updated so the published items can appear in relation to search queries.

The inventory presentation module may also maintain information and or communicate with external information providers to perform the data enrichment function. For example for a given type of component the inventory presentation module may access supplemental information including detailed part specifications. This allows a rich presentation of features without requirement the seller to enter such information and without requiring repeated uploading of data unnecessarily.

The inventory presentation module also includes facilities for generating responses to search queries whether submitted directly as a search query or by automatic comparison to shortage list information.

The certified inventory management module provides communications that further publication of only certified inventory. This entails automatically generated e mails or other communications that further and confirm the completion of the tagging bagging phase wherein the barcode SKU label is affixed to each packaged item and seller identification information is highlighted. In conjunction with this the certified inventory management module receives uploaded images and any other desired information such as warehouse location regarding the certified items. Once these processes are completed the inventory is published in the catalog as noted.

It is also noted that verification of chain of custody to the manufacturer directly or indirectly may also be taken in conjunction with item publication in the catalog. This verification may occur before publication i.e. as a pre requisite after publication or in phases before and after publication of the item. Also the item may be published having an associated security level e.g. two stars bronze but may be upgraded following publication e.g. to platinum once chain of custody is further verified.

In one embodiment chain of custody verification may occur based upon information accessed by the CSMI Middleware from either or both the local ERP system and the CSMI Platform. For example the seller side CSMI Middleware may access the ERP system to access information such as a goods received note for the seller. The CSMI Platform may also securely provide information to the CSMI Middleware that is obtained from the uploaded imagery and data from the audit corresponding to an item. Still further the CSMI Middleware may obtain information such as shipping notification information from a manufacturer. The CSMI Middleware correlates and reconciles this evidence to verify chain of custody pursuant to determining a security level that is then uploaded to the CSMI Platform.

In some circumstances verifying chain of custody may implement rules such as a rule that concludes a particular security level to be applicable regardless of the correlation to typical evidence. For example if a given seller has previously published items that merited a security level on several occasions and the given seller is requesting publication of the same type of items the same security level that applied in past publications of the items of that type may be automatically accorded to the current items.

Finally it is noted that the verified chain of custody to the manufacturer need not go all the way to the actual manufacturer but rather to another entity such as a distributor for the manufacturer. This may also factor into the determination of the security level.

The transaction fulfillment module communicates with the inventory presentation module and receives confirmed purchase indications from users. It may provide a shopping cart type functionality as well wherein users may indicate desired purchases and retain them for subsequent confirmation. Once a purchase is confirmed a transaction identifier is maintained in association with the corresponding list of unique SKU numbers for the ordered items. The ordered items are removed or may have already been removed pending confirmation of the order from the catalog.

The logistics management module communicates with necessary parties to engage with cross docking and shipping. As noted this may be automatically generated work orders that go to either separate entities or to a single entity that performs both of these functions. These communications may be made via e mail or may be made through communications tailored to provide automated instructions to third party logistics providers. Provided information may include the list of all items to be cross docked work instructions pending orders items that need to be picked up information that needs to be obscured instructions on how to fill out address label to ship to buyer etc. Additionally information useful for accommodating export such as managing country of origin information and related rules and procedures may be provided.

The logistics management module may also receive information about the status of cross docking and shipment or may channel the information provided by the computer systems of such providers for access through the corresponding middleware. This allows features such as shipment tracking through the common interface.

Finally the payment processing module accommodates and manages payments to be received from the buyer and made to the seller with corresponding communications with third parties such as credit processing agencies as desired. The details of payment and corresponding transaction fees are described above.

It is also noted that other functions may be provided such as administrative functions that allow customer service representatives of the CMSI Platform service provider to access information expedite logistics for customers etc.

In one embodiment the user interface is provides the user with a real time on screen filtering and subsequent reduction of line items to a screen composed of higher quality results. The main layout may be divided into a central workbench area that presents filtering dialogs and a re situated search entry box that collapses and expands dynamically to allow the user to expand or reduce the scope of listed entries according to various field parameters.

According to this aspect the present invention allows dynamic search results corresponding to the review of published inventory items in lieu of traditional iterative generation of new pages based upon search queries.

This interface avoids click through and screen wait refreshing cycles where repeated search querying results are foreseen due to the large number of entries. The interface is preferably a rich Internet application based interface that provides a single page UI with collapsible comparative areas of data with key identifying fields presented in columnar format. The columns may be sorted with interchanging directional arrows . Access to on screen filtering is had through a comprehensive dialog for all key fields as well as a local field filter available within the header of each column. This local filtering can be accessed by clicking on a hyperlinked column header located next to the column sorting arrow.

Preferably the page navigation provides space for key identifying fields such as MPN manufacturer s part number and similar basic identification fields. Within the header of the key identifier is the MPN used for the search as well as the number of associated search result items. In addition to number based searching the interface accommodates categorical searching major categories and corresponding sub categories such as through menu based selection.

The remainder of the page is divided into closed accordion views each titled on the accordion folds to include Manufacturer Delivery Info Date Codes RoHS etc. key information field categories could change for each user with a buyer s preferences different from those of a designer or an engineer. 

Depending on the size of the data table accordion folds may also be placed to segregate and provide comparative viewing of data that would otherwise be difficult to view and analyze.

With reference to clicking on the title within any column header will provide a fully interactive slide filter which can be referred to as a slider . Once the user clicks on a column header he or she is presented with a mini dialog that is comprised of the column header with an interactive slider directly beneath. To the left of the slider is the high data mark both dynamically obtained from the current results data table . The user then applies the mouse pointer to either or both of the two slider handles and drags them in a direction that will lessen the range of the results. By pulling both handles closer to gather the user has eliminated the highs and low to display only the middle results.

For example as each slider is dragged the corresponding range numbers change and respond as the handle is dragged full numbers unless specified otherwise and once complete the user can visually see exactly what range will filter to reduce or expand the current on screen data set. As indicated a before range may comprise parts with an operating range between 12V and 4V and through manipulation of the sliders the user may prompt an after range that will comprise parts with an operating range between 10V and 6V thus narrowing the search and corresponding number of items to be displayed.

In operation once the mouse moves off the dialog the dialog disappears but can be presented again at any time by clicking the column header. Once the slider dialog disappears the state of the on screen data changes and becomes a filtered version of the initial data search results. In conjunction with presentation of the data search results the number of displayed items may reduce and that number may be displayed for easy review by the user e.g. it may reduce to 650 whereas a previous listing may have had many times that number .

Additionally the completion of a change in the displayed listing prompts display of a new active tab corresponding to the current listing. As new listings are requested and displayed additional new tabs sequentially appear along a header row corresponding to each instance . Inactive tab s to the left of the current tab correspond to prior search results that the user may return to at any time e.g. if they decide to discard filters and begin again .

Additional tabs may also be provided to assist the user including Catalog Cart Save and Send . The Catalog tab indicates the catalog or zone in which the user actively resides during a component browsing exercise and the Cart tab accommodates entry of purchase selections and corresponding well known functionality. Where the user has put some time and effort into filtering results they may wish to use the Save tab to save them because they want to save the items but are not ready to purchase or use the Send tab to forward the results to another individual for approval before purchase is made.

For results that may require extensive tweaking the user has the option of employing an advanced filter dialogue. This may be a pop up dialog that presents a collection of either all or a specified selection of column headers with sliders for engaging in further refinement of listed results. Once enacted the massaged range of resulting line items will likely be fewer in number and far closer in characteristics to targeted user requirements. On closing the advanced filter dialog the page again provides Save and Send options to accompany the existing Cart navigation link.

Magnifier SKUs and other product identification numbers IDs with unique number appendages as well as things like voltage rates or date abbreviations all require close examination especially where quantity purchases are to be made. Because of this and the sometimes overwhelming number of results present within a user s viewing area the interactive interface is also equipped with a content magnifier. The magnifier enables the user to mouse over any cell and have just that cell s content enlarged in an area above and to right left for closer examination.

In this embodiment once save is clicked by the user processing from the presentation layer may return to a database and corresponding display mode. The user may at any time return to saved searches and the corresponding functionality as described above. The saved searches may hold a number of searches e.g. 15 . A login dashboard is available for the user to peruse and manage My Searches including deleting and related management of the searches.

The user can also send searches to others using e mail. Often times a person performing a search may lack the authorization or technical ability to decide on a final purchase. In these instances an email is generated to include a link to the saved search. Once the email is opened by the recipient e.g. a senior purchasing agent or engineer and after they click on the descriptive hyperlink they are immediately transported to the same interface corresponding to the save. If it is the first time they are in this portion of the application they may be provided with a default buyer view or some alternative view with modification and customization of course being available. Notably the full contents of the search results or Cart are not included in the email. Instead an email generated within the presentation layer forwards a hyperlink to the corresponding saved search results. This keeps the contents of the catalog search results available for private viewing while also inhibiting potential competitors from accessing the same. This feature also enables expansion of the user base. Control may be made over distribution of the save by limiting viable recipients according to e mail address. Additionally there may be temporary access rights or other restrictions so as not to leave lingering access rights in this mode of operation.

Referring first to the process is illustrates seller buyer CSMI authentication logistics and cross dock shipping logistics participants. The process initially references a request for publication of an item initiated by Seller to the CSMI platform. This may follow various determinations by Seller related to pricing which may occur behind the Seller firewall through the use of middleware or through independent analysis of the desired price such as by reviewing the catalog of available items on the CSMI platform.

Publication is not necessarily immediate as physical inspection and related staging activities should preferably take place prior to making the item available through the CSMI platform. The pending status of publication may be indicated to Seller and in conjunction with that the CSMI platform may also issue audit instructions to the Authentication Logistics provider which responds accordingly and provides the physical verification at the designated Seller location which also preferably involves image capture. Following confirmation and data upload entails confirmation of the audit to the CSMI platform uploading of images etc.

Once the audit is completed the items can be made available for purchase on the CSMI platform. Confirmation of this can be made to the Seller such as by e mail or an update provided through CSMI middleware as noted previously.

Buyers may engage with the CSMI platform to inquire about available catalog items . This may entail submission of individual queries using part numbers searches based upon categories or field values submission of shortage list data or the like. The CSMI platform returns search results corresponding to the catalog. The user then selects items and indicates a purchase of the same such as through population of a cart and corresponding confirmation of purchase.

Following this the CSMI platform sends a notice to Seller indicating the transaction. This notice preferably includes instructions regarding cross docking and shipment . In one embodiment this may merely be an identification of the shipping and cross docking services provider s with instructions being sent to appropriate Seller personnel to make them aware of such information. This allows Seller personnel to coordinate availability make items available for either the cross docking or shipping role or both etc.

In conjunction with this notice and instructions are also sent to the cross dock shipping logistics providers which as described may be separate entities or a single entity. illustrates such notices and instructions as being separate but they could of course be a single communication to a single provider. If necessary cross docking may also be confirmed to the CSMI platform prior to issuing instructions to pick up the item for shipment particularly where the tasks are divided. In either event the logistics provider s perform the tasks of cross docking and picking up item s for shipment as previously described in detail.

The item is then shipped to Buyer without revealing the identity of Seller. CSMI platform service provider may be indicated as the shipper and cross docking entails removal of Seller indicia as noted. Shipment may be confirmed to the CSMI platform which can be passed to Seller not shown .

In one embodiment once the item has been shipped or received Buyer is informed and payment is requested . For CSMI platform members this may entail request for payment on terms e.g. 15 days . Alternatively the items may be purchased using a credit card. In those circumstances Buyer will likely be charged at the time that the transaction is confirmed prior to shipment. In either event payment is made to the CSMI platform. Transaction fees have been described previously and may be incorporated into the list price for catalog items. Finally payment is made to Seller to complete the transaction. This may also be on terms and may also incorporate transaction fees which will have been made known to the Seller at the time the publication request is made.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide anonymous and certified secondary market inventory management. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

