---

title: Auto-stabilization of lasers by means of resonant structures
abstract: Apparatus, systems, and methods are provided that utilize a material inserted into a laser cavity such that the material has an optical length that varies as the laser cavity varies to keep the repetition rate constant. The material may provide auto-stabilization of the optical output form the laser cavity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07664149&OS=07664149&RS=07664149
owner: STC. UNM
number: 07664149
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070508
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 798 471 filed 8 May 2006 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support through Subaward no. 31607 awarded by the MURI University of Colorado at Boulder under the U.S. Office of Naval Research prime grant no. N00014 02 1 0714. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Coherent population trapping first observed in sodium atoms is a manifestation of laser interaction with a three level system where a coherence between two hyperfine ground state levels is achieved through a two photon process. In a three level lambda system a particular laser excitation can provide a resonance condition in which destructive interference occurs between excitation pathways. The population is reduced in the upper state and trapped within the two ground states creating a dark state. This reduction of fluorescence and absorption has been given the name dark line. 

The transition between ground states of an alkali metal is electric dipole forbidden and has a long lifetime. The narrow resonance feature of this effect has stimulated the idea of an all optical frequency standard. Introducing a buffer gas in a cell as well as using a cell with Paraffin coated walls can reduce the linewidth. The dependence of the width and contrast of this narrow line on the laser power the light polarization the magnetic field and the cell temperature of rubidium has been studied. In those experiments a pair of phase locked lasers or a single laser source modulated by half of the ground state hyperfine splitting has been used to create coherence between hyperfine split ground state levels. The coherence effect using a pulse train by adjusting its repetition rate to a submultiple of the hyperfine splitting of sodium has been observed. Pulse generation by current modulation of a laser diode has been used. Further advances in laser systems and laser spectroscopy are needed.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration various example embodiments. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice these and other embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made to these embodiments. The various embodiments are not necessarily mutually exclusive as some embodiments can be combined with one or more other embodiments to form new embodiments. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In such a configuration material is material different from the gain medium of the laser cavity. In an embodiment the optical length through a change in index of refraction due to material decreases as the repetition rate of the laser output of laser cavity decreases. Random changes in the cavity length of mode locked lasers cause the repetition rate to fluctuate. For instance as the cavity length increases the repetition rate decreases. Embodiments include inserting inside the laser a material of which the optical length through the index of refraction decreases as the repetition rate decreases. As a result of the material in the laser cavity the two effects can compensate eliminating the fluctuations in repetition rate. The material may be structured with a resonant atomic transition proportional to the repetition rate. The material may have a structure having at least a three levels to provide resonant coherent interaction. In an embodiment material may be atomic vapors in which intracavity interaction provides stabilization of the source. Such insertion of atomic vapors in cavities may provide self stabilization without the use of electronics. Among various applications such lasers may be used as ultra accurate time standards.

In an embodiment rubidium may be used as a material inserted in a laser cavity of a mode locked laser for auto stabilization of the repetition rate of the laser. In an embodiment rubidium may be included in a laser cavity in the amount of about 10atoms m. Such materials are not limited to rubidium. The following examines dark line resonance in Rb.

Spectroscopy of a structure in Rb can be performed with a mode locked laser. A dark line resulting from population trapping between the hyperfine levels is observed when the repetition rate is a submultiple of the hyperfine splitting such as 1 57th of the hyperfine splitting. The pulse bandwidth inverse of the pulse duration is chosen to be much broader than the 6.847 GHz splitting of the ground state. Therefore the series of modes within the Doppler profile contribute to transitions from the 5S F 1 to the 5Pto the 5Slevels. Calculations and measurements of the excitation of rubidium excited by an infinite train of pulses as the repetition rate or the period of the pulse train is being varied can be conducted. The calculations can be carried out in the time domain integrating the system of differential equations for the density matrix of the three levels two ground states 1 and 2 and an excited state 3 for a time sufficient to reach steady state more than 400 pulses for various values of the pulse period. The fluorescence of the excited rubidium will be proportional to the diagonal matrix element p while the dispersion absorption are given by the real and imaginary parts of the off diagonal elements and . The relevant density matrix equations are

The resonance curve was studied for various values of the carrier frequency. It was seen that the dark line is remarkably insensitive to the exact value of the mode frequency. illustrates this remarkable insensitivity to random fluctuations in the mode frequency. The carrier frequency was given sudden random jump in the interval 2 MHz the inter points shown or random jump in the interval 10 MHz the outer points shown . It is seen that the width and position of the dark resonance is not affected.

Such a spectroscopic arrangement provides a coherent interaction of a single photon transition in rubidium by a pulse train from a Ti sapphire mode locked laser. A 4.6 mm birefringent filter in the cavity can set the pulse duration to 1 ps and allow for some tunability of the pulse spectrum around 795 nm. An experiment can be carried out with the Ti sapphire laser with output mirror placed on a translation stage driven by a slow 2 minutes turn synchronous motor. The laser can be mode locked around 795 nm by a multiple quantum well MQW of composition selected for the desired wavelength. To prevent effects due to two photon resonances the birefringent filter can prevent the generation of pulses shorter than 1 ps. The side fluorescence of a rubidium cell can be monitored with a photomultiplier as the cavity length is being scanned. shows an experimental recording of the dark line resonance of rubidium obtained by scanning the repetition rate of Ti sapphire laser near the 57submultiple of the hyperfine splitting of the ground state. The cell did not contain any buffer gas and the 15 kHz linewidth corresponds to the transit time broadening of the 2.3 mm wide beam.

Dark resonance spectroscopy can be conducted essentially without a need to control the random mode frequency fluctuations by scanning solely the repetition rate of the laser. In various embodiments systems with laser apparatus can be constructed with the laser apparatus stabilized essentially without electronics.

A picosecond laser mode locked by a multiple quantum well saturable absorber may be used to establish coherence between the two 5Shyperfine levels of Rb. The spectrum of the picosecond pulse covers both optical transitions from the split ground states to the level 5P keeping each branch of the transition on resonance. The population is trapped between the ground states when the repetition rate of the pulse train is a sub multiple of hyperfine splitting.

It can be shown experimentally and theoretically that the coherence population trapping is insensitive to substantially the exact optical resonance condition. Hence there is no need for phase stabilization. The dark line effect had been suggested as a source for atomic clock in the absence of magnetic field and as a tool for magnetometry in presence of a magnetic field splitting the levels into Zeeman components. In an embodiment a continuous pulse train provides a source for a variety of applications involving coherence population trapping since the optical modes are from a single laser source. In such embodiments there is essentially no need for electronic stabilization.

Studies of coherent population trapping lead either to the observation of a dark line or a reverse bright line. These studies were based on single mode lasers. Experimental and theoretical studies of coherence interaction between a pulse train and a three level system in the time domain are discussed herein.

A theory of coherent interaction with a pulse train is provided in the following without limiting the embodiments of the present invention. depicts the energy levels of Rb with hyperfine splitting values in MHz. For a ps laser source tuned to D1 transition in Rb the density matrix equation can be reduced to that of a three level system here levels 1 and 2 are ground state levels with 6834.7 GHz splitting and level 3 is the upper state. The density matrix rate equation in the interaction picture is 

After substitution of the electric field equations 2 or 3 into the system of Eq. 1 and taking similarly and off diagonal matrix elements in a frame rotating with optical frequency one can find a system of differential equations for the amplitude of the fields. This system of differential equations can be solved using the Butcher predictor corrector method which has been found to be most stable for solving Schr dinger type equations. It has been verified that the elements of the density matrix converge towards a steady state value after a sufficient number of pulses. A result of the density matrix element has been obtained after interacting with 900 pulses.

 exp t with a duration 2 ln 2 1 ps for most calculations although the result has been tested for 100 fs and 10 ps. The time integral of the Rabi frequency area dt over a single pulse of the train is the pulse area a parameter that defines how hard the transition is driven.

The sensitivity of the dark line shape to mode frequency has been numerically investigated. For optical frequencies where can be any value from 0 to 1 GHz the height and width of the dark line as a function of repetition rate remains unchanged. This property shows that Doppler broadening does not to first order affect the dark line feature.

The jitter added in is a random change of frequency after each 40 pulse of 900 pulses. It is clear that the dark line width and amplitude is independent of the mode frequency jitter. illustrates another confirmation of the robustness of the dark line where the fluorescence of the dark line or is plotted as a function of repetition rate for a randomly fluctuating carrier frequency. To simulate statistical motion of cavity elements the carrier frequency is given an increment after every 40 pulses where takes the random value up to 2 MHz and 10 MHz in . The result shows the depth and width of the dark line to be independent of mode frequency shift or of the fluctuation in the value of the mode frequency. Therefore there is essentially no need for mode and offset frequency stabilization in the dark line measurement.

The power broadening for the resonance feature corresponds to the case that repetition rate matches substantially the exact hyperfine splitting may be observed in . The shape of the dark line is very sensitive to the laser power as illustrated by the successive plots in . The curves are labelled by the value of the area time integral of the Rabi frequency for an individual pulse. The repetition rate is chosen to be close to the hyperfine splitting to study the dependence of the first of the dark line series in on optical power. The laser pulse duration is set to 1 ps. For areas below 0.01 the dark line is only a small perturbation on a weak fluorescence. For the area between 0.01 and 0.1 the dark line has a narrow width. As the area increase above 0.5 the broadening of the dark line can be seen in the picture leading to complete extinction of the dark line feature for an area equal to 2. The result of the power broadening calculation in may be used as an aid to select the appropriate beam size and power for optimum observation of the dark line.

The following considers dark line measurement with ps pulse train. The use of the two photon transition to the 5Dlevel in in counter propagating geometry for two photon dark line spectroscopy at 778 nm has been investigated. The interference between two pathways coupling the ground states direct Raman coupling or coupling via the two photon resonant transition made the physical situation complex. Meanwhile the dark line study with continuous source shows that the D1 transition of Rb is a better candidate than the D2 transition since Clebsch Gordan C G coefficients are equal for both hyperfine levels of the upper state.

Since there is an optimal pulse area it is desirable to use longer pulses than the 100 fs pulses that a Ti Sapphire typically generates. For a given power density longer pulses corresponds to larger areas. Therefore a longer pulse allows the use of a broader beam hence a smaller transit time broadening. On the other hand the pulse width should be short enough for both ground state transitions to keep them on resonance and long enough to cover only one transition line to the single upper level. A system may be arranged to operate with 1 ps pulses of which spectrum covers both the hyperfine splitting and the 500 MHz Doppler width.

The laser source used may be Ti Sapphire pumped by a doubled Nd Vanadate laser Coherent Verdi 5W . Mode locking and spectrum control may be achieved through appropriate design of multiple quantum wells in reflection. A 4.6 mm quartz birefringent filter may be used to enable fine tuning of the pulse frequency and a restriction of the pulse bandwidth central frequency 795 mm and bandwidth 2 nm .

The dark line resonance of rubidium has been studied both experimentally and theoretically for mode locked laser excitation. It has been demonstrated experimentally and theoretically that the resonance width is insensitive to fluctuations in optical frequency. In various embodiments high resolution spectroscopy may be conducted by which only the repetition rate cavity length is being scanned. The spectral features are independent of the exact mode frequency which fluctuates as the repetition rate is being scanned. With this insensitivity to optical frequency this resonance may be applied to a variety of applications to stabilize the repetition rate of a frequency comb.

Spectroscopy has traditionally used the laser as a delta function frequency source tunable across the spectrum to probe mainly the absorptive properties of material placed outside of that source. Various embodiments may provide intracavity spectroscopy with mode locked lasers. A laser may be used as a source of one or more frequency combs to probe the dispersive properties of matter inside the laser cavity. By tuning the repetition rate of an ultrashort pulse laser resonances that are even narrower than the single mode bandwidth may be observed. Such spectroscopy may have applications in biology where stiff bilayer structures such as lipid membranes could be excited at a subharmonic of the laser repetition rate.

When evolving from traditional spectroscopy where the source tends towards a function in frequency to time resolved spectroscopy with femtosecond pulses one has to walk a tight rope between achieving temporal or spectral resolution. With the stabilization of the mode combs it appeared feasible to combine high spectral resolution with temporal resolution. Simulation studies and experiments of coherent excitation of two photon transitions in rubidium with stabilized trains of femtosecond to picosecond pulses may be conducted. One should recognize the extreme difficulty in controlling simultaneously the shape and position of the single pulse spectrum the position of one single mode and the mode spacing. Typically orthogonality of the controls is nearly impossible. By using a linear combination of controls orthogonality of the repetition rate and single mode but not the spectral envelope may be achieved. However orthogonality of the repetition rate and single mode and the spectral envelope is used for two photon spectroscopy of rubidium transitions. There are however some spectral properties that are to first order independent of the mode position but only repetition rate dependent. The dark line resonance is one of them. Another example where the repetition rate scanning may provide sharp resonances is in the study of collective vibration modes such as the compression resonance of lipid membranes in biology. In both of these examples the laser repetition rate is a submultiple of the feature to be analyzed resulting in a narrowing of the observed structures.

Dark line resonances had been observed traditionally with two phase locked narrow line continuous wave cw lasers. Simulations of coherent interaction show the coherent interaction with mode locked laser that results in a dark line in Rb fluorescence when the hyperfine splitting is a submultiple of laser repetition rate and the laser frequency is on resonance with the D1 795 nm line. show a recording of the fluorescence of rubidium rubidium vapor at room temperature with no buffer gas versus laser repetition rate. The laser is mode locked with multiple quantum wells. indicates that the FWHM of the dark line is 11 kHz in the absence of the magnetic field. illustrates Zeeman splitting due to the magnetic field. Curve is the fluorescence with no magnetic field. Curve is the fluorescence with a 240 mG magnetic field. Curve is the fluorescence with a 420 mG magnetic field.

A numerical integration code of the interaction equations for an infinite train of pulses may be constructed. The real part of the polarization is plotted as a function of repetition rate in for three values of the repetition rate. Curve is for the initial pulse normalized . Curve is for a 10.0991 ns pulse. Curve is for a 10.0919 ns pulse. Curve is for a 10.09557 ns pulse resonance . As expected the index of refraction is antisymmetric with respect to the resonance. For consideration of an intracavity application only the real part of the polarization is relevant since the absorption corresponding to the imaginary part will be compensated by the gain medium. It may be noted that for the values of the repetition rate below resonance the contribution of the resonant polarization is negative corresponding to an acceleration of the light while there is a decrease in light velocity at higher repetition rates. This result is consistent with the observation of slow light.

The standard approach to stabilizing the repetition rate of a laser is to compare it to an electronic standard or an optical standard to amplify electronically the error signal and apply it to a piezo element driving a cavity mirror. Electronic stabilization of a mode locked laser has been studied. In addition electronic feedback into a laser has been used to stabilize the laser to the atomic transition of rubidium hyperfine splitting in Rb in an application as a time standard.

In an embodiment an approach to stabilization includes inserting in the laser cavity an element with a strong dependence of group velocity on repetition rate. When the pulse repetition rate increases the group velocity in that medium decreases resulting in a decrease of the pulse repetition rate. Resonantly enhanced refractive index in atomic vapors via atomic coherence may make it possible to stabilize the laser repetition rate in a purely optical fashion without electronics. Electronic noise in feedback loops is eliminated in the purely passive optical system for a variety of embodiments. The conditions that may be satisfied in various embodiments include a proper gain in the feedback loop i.e. a proper change in group velocity for a small change in repetition rate an error signal independent of the optical frequency a correction that does not distort the intracavity pulse fast dynamics minimum delay between the detection of an error and its correction and a correction that does not affect the laser operation.

The use of three level two split ground states connected to a common upper state resonant coherent interaction inside a mode locked laser cavity can provide the feedback. As the spectral envelope covers the two optical transitions and the repetition rate is tuned to resonance with the ground state hyperfine splitting a narrow dip or peak in absorption and fluorescence dark line can be observed. Since the establishment of coherence between the split ground states is insensitive to the exact carrier frequency which may be confirmed theoretically and experimentally using a fs Ti sapphire laser the provided error signal is an error signal independent of the optical frequency. The giant index of refraction associated with the resonance provides the abovementioned feedback with gain required. The absence of any electronics provides the fastest possible feedback.

A simplified analytical approach may be used for the laser response to the dark line resonance to study the nonlinear Fabry Perot. The circulation time of the pulse through the ring is the sum of the propagation time l v through the Rb cell and the propagation time through the rest of the cavity. Through the coherent resonant coupling the group velocity v in rubidium is itself a function of the repetition rate. One has to solve a self consistent equation which in the case of a Lorentzian model leads to a third order algebraic equation for the repetition rate. The root of this equation as a function of provides the response of the close loop. Such a simplified model lets one identify the optimal parameters pressure magnetic fields temperature and buffer gas for stabilization as well as the conditions of bi stability and oscillations. Numerical codes can be used to simulate the coherent response of the atomic system to the train of pulses which may be used in a study of the laser self stabilization.

A Ti sapphire laser has been stabilized in carrier frequency and repetition rate. A technique in which the laser is locked to an ultra low expansion quartz cavity provides a rapid stabilization as compared to stabilization to an atomic vapor but not long term accuracy. A hybrid stabilization may include use of a reference cavity for short term stability and an atomic vapor for accuracy. Using fluorescence of rubidium upon irradiation by a train of pulses in condition of two photon resonance the pulse duration is taken to be longer than 1 ps in order to avoid a cascade excitation via the single s p photon resonance. Three experimental parameters associated with such configurations include the individual modes of the laser the repetition rate of the mode locked laser and the spectral envelope of the laser spectral bandwidth and central frequency .

Most work on femtosecond comb has focused on ultrashort 10 to 50 fs femtosecond pulses for which the bandwidth is so broad that the spectral envelope is totally irrelevant. In these projects related to the establishment of links between frequency standards there are only two parameters to control which may provide a challenge. Controlling simultaneously the three parameters the individual modes of the laser the repetition rate of the mode locked laser and the spectral envelope of the laser is a daunting task for pulses longer than 100 fs. It is noted in attempting to control simultaneously the three parameters that a Kerr lens mode locking is not a reliable mechanism for longer pulses that multiple quantum wells are effective saturable absorbers for mode locking provided the composition of the quantum well is adjusted to the desired wavelength and that the pulse duration can be controlled by a single birefringent filter which allows also for a tunability of the mode locked train in a limited range.

In various embodiments synchronously pumped OPO configurations may be used for independent orthogonal control of all parameters including repetition rate carrier frequency and pulse spectral envelope. Analysis of coherent interaction with rubidium indicate a resonant enhancement of the fluorescence where the carrier frequency is resonant with the two photon transition and the repetition rate is simultaneously resonant with the ground state splitting in situations where a direct Raman coupling between the split ground states is neglected. No resonance may be identified when such Raman transition is taken into account. However the study of the single photon transition has demonstrated that the dark line resonance can provide an absolute error signal for the repetition rate independently of the carrier frequency.

Application of the high rate of accuracy and stability that can be achieved in mode locked lasers may be utilized in a mode of communication at a bit rate in excess of 10 THz. In addition stabilization of mode locked lasers may be used in a variety of sensor systems. Sensors may be realized having the absence of a dead band leads for methods to measure backscattering of near perfect optical surfaces intensity backscattering coefficient as small as 10 . In various embodiments an intracavity pumped ring OPO with a beat note bandwidth of 1 Hz may be used.

A dark line resonance of a material may be observed when the laser repetition rate is a sub multiple of hyperfine splitting. In various embodiments application of this feature may be used inside the laser cavity to provide stabilization without any electronic feedback. The dispersion curve of the dark line acts as a purely optical feedback. The slope of this error signal can be adjusted by the number of atoms in the cell which may be realized by adjusting the cell temperature. Although this auto stabilization is realized with the D1 transition in Rb 87 it is not limited to this particular atomic vapor cell and can be applied to materials with a level structure exhibiting a lambda shaped resonance.

In an embodiment a laser configuration may include use of a semiconductor laser as a pump. Such a configuration may make the laser operation easier and more efficient. Not only does such a configuration avoid an interminable chain of lasers but it also provides a gain medium with high gain and short lifetime similar to the dye laser with no tendency to Q switching. Intracavity loss may be reduced by using a non collinear PPLN configuration enabling the use of single wavelength coatings of 99.9 reflectivity and enhancing the bandwidth of the parametric conversion. By choosing the signal wavelength to be 1.55 m the signal cavity may be aligned with a fiber laser.

Each of the pulse trains emitted by an OPO cavity is characterized by a repetition rate and the optical frequency of a mode. In general these two parameters are not independent any correction on one parameter for instance the wavelength affects the other as well the repetition rate . The situation is different in a synchronously pumped OPO. The repetition rate of the signal is uniquely determined by the repetition rate of the pump. The wavelength mode frequency of the signal is uniquely determined by the optical length of the signal cavity. The wavelength and exact mode frequency of the OPO signal is independent from that of the signal within the phase matching bandwidth to any fluctuation in pump carrier frequency will correspond an opposite frequency fluctuation in the idler which leaves the signal unaffected.

In an embodiment a configuration is designed to stabilize the repetition rate of the pump cavity to a hyperfine transition of rubidium and to use another atomic standard to stabilize the wavelength phase velocity control in the OPO signal cavity. This approach ensures orthogonality independent controls of the repetition rate and mode frequency.

In order to maintain a compact robust and light instrument self stabilization by an atomic vapors for the pump and signal cavities following embodiments as described above may be employed. The pump wavelength can be at the 795 nm rubidium resonance and the signal wavelengths near 1.5 m for which calcium is a prime candidate as the other atomic standard with a transition at 1.5 m of which the ground state can be populated by a semiconductor laser around 650 nm. Various embodiments provide a method to stabilize in time mode spacing and wavelength absolute mode position a diode laser. Such arrangements may provide considerably more compact and simple instrument than the design involving a combination of a reference cavity for fast feedback and an atomic vapor for accuracy. Consider that shows an apparatus having a laser cavity including a material to stabilize output from laser cavity with laser cavity coupled to an external cavity that includes another material that provides another atomic standard. In embodiment material may include rubidium and material may include calcium. Other materials may be used dependent upon the application for the laser system.

For the intracavity pumped OPO ring laser the conventional alkali atomic vapors are typically ruled out since the wavelength of the s p transitions falls below 1 m. The OPO pumped at 780 nm would operate in the range of 1 to 2 m. Better transitions for this wavelength range may be found from metastable states of Ca Yb or Sr. Calcium is as prime candidate with a transition at 1.5 m of which the ground state can be populated by a semiconductor laser around 650 nm. In a configuration one can use hollow cathode discharge lamps as sample cells. For an enhanced instrument purely optical excitation may be used to avoid the perturbation of the measurements due to the magnetic fields produced by the discharge lamps.

Any cavity length fluctuation in the OPO cavity results in the shift of the modes and the spectrum of the laser pulse in that cavity. In an embodiment a novel optical solution for stabilization is provided by the use of a prism pairs in the cavity in . In an embodiment a wavelength near 1.5 micron may be used. Most glasses have negative dispersion around 1.5 microns. By translating the two prisms along each others one can continuously adjust the thickness of intracavity glass hence the amount of negative dispersion in that cavity. Consider the following view of the stabilization. If the OPO cavity length increases noise fluctuation the wavelength of the OPO signal will also increase. If the wavelength increases the index of refraction of the glass decreases resulting in a decrease of optical path. For a sufficient amount of glass dispersion in the cavity the decrease in optical path will compensate the increase due to length fluctuation. The use of glass in the above provides a non limiting example. Other materials may be used in applications at this example wavelength or at other wavelengths. Materials for instance atomic vapors with the same property of negative dispersion may be used.

In various embodiments a purely optical solution both in mode and repetition rate with orthogonal error signals for laser cavity stabilization may be realized. Such solutions can provide for construction of a laser that is at the same time a stable calibrated clock that is a time standard stable calibrated repetition rate and a wavelength standard without the use of complex electronic stabilization.

In the above detailed description reference may be made to specific examples by way of drawings and illustrations. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive and that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description. Features or limitations of various embodiments described herein do not limit the inventive subject matter as a whole and any reference to the invention its elements operation and application are not limiting as a whole but serve only to define these example embodiments. The above detailed description does not therefore limit embodiments of the invention.

