---

title: Scheduled downloads: enabling background processes to receive broadcast data
abstract: A digital broadcast network is disclosed that can provide scheduled updates for non-critical data in a different manner than critical data updates. Updates that included non-critical information can be scheduled to be broadcast, over a digital broadcast network, during an update window, which can be a specific period of time. Receiving devices can be notified of the update window and, utilizing background functionality, the non-critical updates can be accepted and applied at the receiving device. The non-critical updates might be accepted and applied during the update window if the receiving device is in an idle state or a period of low activity. The non-critical updates can be broadcast on a separate channel or stream. During periods other than during the update window, other data can be transmitted on the separate channel or stream. Critical updates can be applied in real-time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09513893&OS=09513893&RS=09513893
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09513893
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071011
---
The following description relates generally to content distribution systems and more particularly to content delivery and content receipt over a digital broadcast network.

A digital broadcast network is a one way delivery method to client side software located on a user device. Datacast services provide data over a digital broadcast network to be used by the client side software. The data is used to provide a user experience through the client software associated with the datacast service. The delivery method of the data is similar to that used by traditional linear services such as video and audio signals. Subsequently all information is provided in a first to last stream that materially influences the responsiveness of the user experience. Additionally the bandwidth limitations found within a digital broadcast network materially impacts the depth and sophistication of the user experience offered by many datacast services.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such embodiments. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects arc described in connection with scheduling updates for non critical e.g. not time sensitive data. The data e.g. updates is separated according to time sensitivity and delivered to the user device when the device is idle rather than listening to a broadcast channel for all data. This process delivery can be scheduled based on predetermined information provided to the client device. Intelligent client software includes functionality that automatically initiates a background process which can open a broadcast connection and receive data e.g. updates over the digital broadcast network. Data deliveries made while the user is actively using the application only include time sensitive data.

An aspect relates to a method for transmitting scheduled downloads. The method includes notifying a plurality of client devices of a forthcoming update and transmitting the update at a scheduled time. The forthcoming update can comprise non time sensitive data. A time sensitive update can be transmitted at substantially the same time as it is available.

In accordance with another aspect is a device for transmitting content. The device can include a computer platform having a memory and a processor wherein the memory stores information related to decisions made by the processor. Also included in device can be a scheduler that schedules at least one non time sensitive update and an update notifier that informs a plurality of client devices of the proposed schedule. A monitor can also be included in the device. The monitor can review the proposed schedule and trigger a sender to transmit the at least one non time sensitive update at an appropriate time.

According to another aspect is an apparatus for selectively transmitting a scheduled download. The apparatus includes a means for notifying a plurality of receiving devices of a forthcoming update and a means for transmitting the forthcoming update at a scheduled time. The forthcoming update can comprise non time sensitive data. Also included can be a means for transmitting a time sensitive update at substantially the same time it is available.

Still another aspect relates to a machine readable medium having stored thereon machine executable instructions for scheduling at least one non time sensitive update and informing a plurality of client devices of the proposed schedule. The machine executable instructions can also include reviewing the proposed schedule and transmitting the at least one non time sensitive update at the appropriate time.

In a wireless communication system another aspect relates to an apparatus comprising a processor. The processor can be configured to notify a plurality of clients of a forthcoming update and to transmit the update at a scheduled time.

In a related aspect is a method for receiving a scheduled download. The method includes receiving a notification of a scheduled update and tuning in at the scheduled time to receive the update. The scheduled update can comprise non time sensitive data. The update can be received in a broadcast connection.

Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus comprising a computer platform having a memory and a processor wherein the memory stores information related to decisions made by the processor. Also included in apparatus can be an update verifier that determines whether a scheduled update is appropriate for the wireless communications apparatus and a schedule handler that monitors a current time and compares a scheduled time for the update with the current time. The apparatus further can include an update acceptor that initiates a background process to receive the scheduled update.

Yet another aspect relates to an apparatus for selectively receiving a scheduled download. The apparatus includes a means for receiving a notification of a scheduled update and a means for tuning in at the scheduled time to receive the update. The scheduled update can comprise non time sensitive data.

A further aspect relates to a machine readable medium having stored thereon machine executable instructions for determining whether a scheduled update is appropriate. The machine executable instructions also include monitoring a current time and comparing a scheduled time for the update with the current time and initiating a background process to receive the scheduled update.

In a wireless communication system another aspect relates to an apparatus comprising a processor. The processor can be configured to receive a notification of a scheduled update and tune in at the scheduled time to receive the update. The processor can also be configured to automatically initiate a background functionality and download the scheduled update outside a primary application.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspects s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these embodiments.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Furthermore various embodiments are described herein in connection with a wireless terminal. A wireless terminal can also be called a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal client client device wireless communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability computing device or other processing device connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various embodiments are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point Node B or some other terminology.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components or modules and or may not include all of the devices components or modules discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring to illustrated is a system that enables selective delivery and selective acceptance of content which can include scheduled downloads on one or more wireless devices . Upon reviewing data required to be delivered to the client e.g. updates certain amounts of data can be classified as either time sensitive e.g. critical or non time sensitive e.g. not critical . However a broadcast network cannot determine the current state of individual client applications. Therefore the only way to ensure that all clients have the same data and databases is to repeatedly send the information including the non time sensitive data. However if this data is transmitted in a broadcast e.g. first to last environment and a multitude of clients are listening at a same time there is a tremendous amount of bandwidth needed. This creates a highly inefficient system. Thus system can provide selective delivery and selective acceptance of content.

System may include one or more content providers operable to provide one more pieces of content to distribution system such as through a first network . Distribution system is operable to deliver one or more sets of content along with one or more content metadata associated with each set of content to the one or more wireless devices . For example distribution system may include a transmitter and or a second network wherein transmitter is operable to generate a one to many transmission of content and or content metadata for delivery to one or more wireless devices through second network .

One or more sets of content can be distributed based on a scheduled download. For example a set of content can be an update intended for the one or more wireless devices . The update can include time sensitive data or non time sensitive data. Connections for time sensitive data can be made while a user is actively using an application on the wireless devices . Connections for non time sensitive data can be automatically opened through background functionality that can operate when a device is idle or is using less resources than a threshold level.

For example distribution system might not know the last time a wireless device tuned in it could have been yesterday or three weeks ago. Databases that include various types of information e.g. stock information company names sports information player names and so forth could have been updated. Instead of repeatedly sending the updates such non critical changes can be scheduled for downloading when it is convenient for the wireless device. When the wireless device is idle or during periods of low activity it can automatically without user intervention turn on a background process accept a stream being broadcast and download the broadcast data which might contain a large database file. The broadcast can be sent once a few times a day over the course of a few days or at other intervals to allow wireless devices adequate time to receive the data. The wireless devices can use the received data at substantially the same time as live and changing data streams. This allows the data that is not changing frequently to be placed in the large scheduled package file.

Upon accessing transmission each wireless device is operable to execute a content selector which can be configured to identify content in transmission to download to wireless device based on one or more selection parameters within a selection database . Selection parameters may include but are not limited to data such as one or more content filters e.g. scheduled downloads time sensitive updates and so forth one or more data representing user information e.g. preferences and or one or more data representing device information e.g. state of the device such as active inactive idle low resource consumption and so forth. . Selection parameters can be unique to and or customized for each respective wireless device and or each respective user of each wireless device . As such in some aspects each wireless device may download a different set of content within the same transmission . Thus in some aspects one or more selection parameters allow content selector to download one or more selected content of interest to a respective user of the respective wireless device based on a match between one or more of the respective content metadata and one or more of the selection parameters .

Further for example in aspects where selected content comprises real time or live content content selector may forward selected content to a media module for presentation through an output device . In other aspects for example where selected content comprises non real time content content selector may forward selected content to be cached or saved in a content storage . In the non real time case media module is operable to access content storage to retrieve and cause a presentation through output device of the saved content .

Output device in combination with media module is operable to generate selected content as a program or presentation for consumption by a user of wireless device . Each program or presentation may comprise a combination of one or more pieces of selected content labeled Content through Content . The selected content can be associated with one more of the content metadata corresponding to each selected content .

In accordance with a related aspect the content which can be a scheduled download can be delivered on a different channel than other content such as an application that can be divided into two or more channels. The channel that the scheduled download will be sent on can be conveyed to the wireless devices at substantially the same time as the notification of the download schedule is sent. In accordance with some aspects the channel that contains the scheduled download contains metadata or another indicator that identifies the content contained therein as the scheduled download. Thus wireless devices can selectively accept the download by utilizing background functionality as discussed herein.

In accordance with some aspects first network and second network provide respective communication links between the various components and or entities of system . In some aspects first network and second network may comprise independent networks while in other aspects they may comprise inter related networks. Generally first network and second network each may comprise any one or any combination of one or more data networks and or one or more communications networks. For example in some aspects first network may comprise a public communications network such as the Internet and second network may comprise a subscription based one to many network such as a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the MediaFLO System available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In other aspects first network and second network may include one or a combination of other networks such as a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared. Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Further examples of telephone networks that may be included in some aspects of first network and or second network include one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1 radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of the content of . Content as used herein may comprise but is not limited to at least one of video audio multimedia content real time content non real time content also referred to as clips scripts programs scheduled downloads updates both time sensitive and non time sensitive or any other type of data or object operable to be distributed to and executed or presented by wireless device . For example content may include one or any combination of subscribed to programming ad hoc and or on demand received programming and or advertising or any other form of content added to inserted within and or presented simultaneously with or in place of other content. Additionally for example content may comprise but is not limited to a television show a video a movie a song interactive data such as World Wide Web pages and links etc. Further content may comprise a unique content identifier ID such as one or any combination of a letter a number a name a file name a file path etc. associated with the respective piece of content.

Additionally at least one of the multitude of content is associated with one or more content metadata . For instance one or more of the content suppliers associated with a respective one of the multitude of content may define the respective content metadata and associate the content metadata with the respective content. As used herein the term content supplier may include one or any combination of a content provider such as content provider a content retailer a billing and customer service provider and a media distributor such as distribution system . Content metadata comprises any data that describes and or is associated with each respective piece of content . For example content metadata may comprise but is not limited to one or any combination of content ID and one or more content attributes such as a category a name a content length a content type associated stream indicator a code an identifier a theme a genre an intended audience and or market a script a content filter identifier a cuing protocol parameter a related audience and or market and or any metadata relating to the corresponding content. One or more content metadata may be separate from attached to or embedded within the respective content . In some aspects for example when content and content metadata are separate they each may comprise or point to the same content ID for example to enable the respective content metadata to be related to the respective content.

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of the transmission of a multitude of streams of the multitude of content of . Transmission may provide one or more channels or services of content and content metadata to each wireless device for consumption by a respective end user. In some aspects for example each transmission may comprise a one to many transmission in a Forward Link Only FLO system such as the MediaFLO system available from QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. In such a system transmission comprises a flow or a logical stream within a multiplex which is a set of flows available in a given geographical area. Further each channel service and or stream carried by transmission can include scheduled download information that can be broadcast at predetermined times. During times when the scheduled download is not being broadcast the particular channel used to broadcast the download can be used to supply other information to the wireless devices .

Referring to illustrated is a schematic diagram of an aspect of components including an advertiser of the system of . In some aspects because the presentation of each service channel and or stream hereinafter referred to as channel carried by transmission may attract a large number of end users or consumers system may further include one or more advertisers in communication with distribution system . Advertiser comprises an entity desiring to present one more pieces of content within a channel in the form of one or more advertisements to selected end users . For example in this aspect a first channel may comprise but is not limited to an advertisement.

It should be noted that although wireless devices may be illustrated as cellular telephones any number and combination of types of wireless devices may be included in system of . For example wireless device may include but is not limited to a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a laptop computer a two way pager a portable gaming device a portable music device or any type of computerized wireless device. The disclosed aspects can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Computer platform is operable to transmit data across a network such as first network and or second network and is operable to receive and execute routines and applications and optionally display data generated within wireless device or received from any network device or other computer device connected to the network or connected to wireless device . Computer platform may be embodied in for example one or any combination of hardware firmware software data and executable instructions.

Memory may comprise one or any combination of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards flash memory cells an electronic file system and any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more of any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms.

Further processor may be one or more of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a chipset a processor a logic circuit and any other data processing device. In some aspects processor or other processor such as an ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs stored in memory of wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof which enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of wireless device on network of . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with distribution system and or other networked devices. In aspects in which the wireless device is defined as a cellular telephone for example processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services vocoder messaging graphics USB multimedia etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform that enable the functionality described herein. For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of content selector .

Further communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof and is operable to enable communications among the various components of wireless device as well as between wireless device and first network and or second network . For example in cellular telephone aspects communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof including transmit and receive chain components for establishing a wireless communication connection.

Further for example communication module is operable to receive the plurality of content which can include a scheduled download and the associated respective one or more content metadata if any from distribution system and forward them to content selector or provide content selector with access to them. Similarly for example communication module is operable to receive the one or more selection parameters and either forward them to content selector or provide content selector with access to them. Subsequently for example communications module is operable to forward the selected content respectively to other device components for further processing.

Additionally one or more input devices for generating inputs into wireless device and one or more output devices for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device are provided. For example input device may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a navigation mechanism a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input device provides an interface for receiving user input such as to activate or interact with an application or module on the wireless device. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Further user interface may comprise one or any combination of input devices and or output devices .

With reference now to illustrated is a block diagram of an example system for broadcasting scheduled downloads. System can be configured to allow non critical data to be delivered to a client device when the client device is idle or is using less resources than a threshold level. The client device can initiate a background process and receive the data outside of a primary application. Other broadcast channels can be used when the client is active or resource consumption is higher than a threshold level which can be utilized to deliver time sensitive data. Thus system can provide a more robust client experience.

In further detail system includes a transmitter that is in wireless communication with a client device . It should be understood that although multiple transmitters and multiple client devices can be included in system only one of each is shown for simplicity. Transmitter can be configured to notify client of a scheduled non time sensitive download that is or will be available.

Transmitter can include a scheduler that can be configured to schedule such non time sensitive downloads. Such downloads can be planned for periods of low inactivity e.g. during non peak hours at regular intervals e.g. every three hours at random intervals e.g. 1 00 a.m. 7 00 a.m. 4 00 p.m. and 9 00 p.m. or only scheduled for a single time e.g. This Wednesday at 6 30 p.m. . The schedule can also include a time window or update window that enables client devices to access the download during a predetermined period e.g. Sunday between 5 30 p.m. and 11 45 p.m. . Additionally the schedule can be over a series of days or weeks which can be contiguous days weeks or non contiguous days weeks e.g. every other day every third day .

Also included is an update notifier that can be configured to notify client devices of the proposed schedule. Such information can be sent continuously or at different intervals over the course of a few days for example so that client devices that need to be aware of the schedule have adequate time to receive the scheduling information.

A monitor can be configured to review the schedule for the download and send a triggering signal to a sender which can be a transmitter or transmitter receiver pair at the appropriate time. Monitor can compare the scheduled time for the downloads with a current time. The current time can be the time referenced by transmitter e.g. the current time of transmitter or it can be the time reference by client device e.g. the current time associated with client device . For example a client located in the Eastern Time Zone can receive the update approximately three hours earlier than a client located in the Pacific Time Zone.

In accordance with some aspects the various times zones are synchronized such that a client in the Eastern Time Zone receives a schedule indicating that the broadcast will begin at 3 00 a.m. on Saturday and a client on the Pacific Time Zone receives a scheduling indicating that the broadcast will begin at 12 00 a.m. on Saturday. In this scenario client device can include functionality that can monitor movement of the client. For example client device might be operating within the Eastern Time Zone and is turned off such as when boarding an airplane. Then when the client is turned on after the plane has landed it is now operating within the Pacific Time Zone. Client device can include functionality that interprets the change e.g. by monitoring the relevant area or location and automatically adjusts device timing so that it tunes into the broadcast at the proper time e.g. Pacific Time Zone instead of Eastern Time Zone .

Sender can further be configured to broadcast the scheduled download on a dedicated channel or data stream. This dedicated channel can be utilized for the download during the scheduled download times. During other times when the download is not scheduled the dedicated channel can be utilized to send other broadcast data.

System can include memory operatively coupled to transmitter . Memory can store information related to data that should be sent as a scheduled download scheduled download times and other information generated by the processor. In accordance with some aspects memory can store information related to devices that received a scheduled download and other suitable information related to scheduling and transmitting downloads in a communication network. A processor can be operatively connected to transmitter and or memory to execute instructions relating to scheduling and transmitting downloads to receiving devices.

In accordance with some aspects processor can execute instructions relating to determining a best time or times to broadcast download data in a communication network. Processor can execute instructions for recommending download times or update windows notifying receiving devices of when to expect the forthcoming update transmitting the update at the scheduled time s and so forth. Processor can execute instructions in accordance with some aspects for retransmitting an update if there was an error during the scheduled transmissions.

Processor can be a processor dedicated to scheduling and or broadcasting non time sensitive data. Processor can also be a processor that controls a retransmission to a client based upon a dedicated request and or a processor that both analyzes and generates information received by transmitter and controls one or more components of system .

Memory can store protocols associated with scheduled times for updates taking action to control communication between transmitter and client device etc. such that system can employ stored protocols and or algorithms to achieve broadcasting scheduled downloads in a wireless network as described herein. It should be appreciated that the data store e.g. memories components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of example and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of example and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM DRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Memory of the disclosed embodiments are intended to comprise without being limited to these and other suitable types of memory.

System is similar to the system of the above figure and includes a transmitter that is in wireless communication with a client device . Transmitter can schedule various non critical downloads. An update verifier can be configured to verify whether the data scheduled to be broadcast is appropriate for client device and or whether the data has already been received. For example non critical data might be broadcast at different intervals over the course of a few days. There might be more than one time when client device is not busy. If the data was received during an earlier broadcast update verifier can selectively disregard the broadcast. If however the earlier broadcast data was not received did not complete or there was a problem with receiving the data update verifier can accept the broadcast data.

In accordance with some aspects update verifier can be configured to selectively accept a scheduled download based on a particular channel that the data is sent over. The channel can be pre determined and information relating to the channel can be sent at substantially the same time as the notification of the scheduled download is received. Alternatively the channel might not be pre determined and information received in conjunction with the data can notify client device and or update verifier that the channel contains the scheduled download. Connections for time sensitive data can be made while a user is actively using an application on the client or at any other time.

If the scheduled broadcast is appropriate for client a schedule handler can be configured to monitor scheduled time s or an update window relating to when various non critical updates are expected to be broadcast e.g. client does not have to listen for the update except during scheduled times . Schedule handler can be configured to monitor a current time associated with client . In accordance with some aspects schedule handler can monitor changes in the time zone of client e.g. a change from Pacific Time Zone to Eastern Time Zone .

Schedule handler can further compare the scheduled time with the current time and if there is a match update acceptor can be notified to selectively accept the download. Update acceptor can include background functionality that can be configured to initiate a background process to receive data and manage the non critical data when the client device is idle or during periods of low power consumption. If the client device is busy background functionality can selectively disregard the current broadcast of the non critical data and accept or request the update at a different time.

System can include memory operatively coupled to client . Memory can store information related to notification of scheduled times that an update will be broadcast. The scheduled broadcast can included non time sensitive data. In accordance with some aspects memory can store information related to historical downloads e.g. how often an update is received for a particular application the last time an update was received and other suitable information related to receiving scheduled download data in a communication network. A processor can be operatively connected to client and or memory to execute instructions relating to receiving a scheduled forthcoming update.

In accordance with some aspects processor can execute instructions relating to analysis of information related to the scheduled download. Processor can execute instructions for selectively determining a best time to accept the update automatically initiating a background functionality for receiving the update and so forth. Processor can execute instructions in accordance with some aspects for automatically requesting a dedicated update over an alternate communication link if the scheduled update was not received. Processor can be a processor dedicated to analyzing and or generating information received by client device e.g. download information location of user devices downloads to be communicated to user devices and so forth . Processor can also be a processor that controls one or more components of system and or a processor that both analyzes and generates information received by client device and controls one or more components of system .

In more detail system includes a sender that is in wireless communication with one or more receivers of which only one is illustrated . The sender might have already broadcast a scheduled update which was received by a high percentage of receivers . However there might be a number of receivers that for various reasons did not have the opportunity to download the scheduled data.

Receiver can include an optimization component that can be configured to determine whether a scheduled download was missed due to various factors. Optimization component can make the determination by accessing retained information and determining whether the scheduled time s has expired e.g. by requesting information from scheduled handler of . In accordance with some aspects receiver might not be aware that there was a scheduled update. In this situation optimization component can be configured to selectively request information relating to downloads that might have been missed. For example there might be common types of data that are updated periodically. Optimization component can determine such needed updates based on information contained within the application that utilizes the update based on historical data e.g. an update is generally received for a particular application every two months and it is beyond the two month window or based on other criteria e.g. information in a particular application is outdate included an expiration date and so forth .

If optimization component determines that a scheduled download was potentially missed it can transmit a request to sender asking about the update. If it is unclear whether there was a scheduled download the request can include whether there was an update. The request can also include information relating to the last update received e.g. time stamp of the data or other identifying information . If there was a missed update a dedicated update can be unicast to receiver in reply to the request. In such a manner system can allow receivers that missed the scheduled download to receive the download after expiration of the schedule.

In further detail system includes a sender that can be configured to schedule non critical downloads and notify one or more receivers as to the availability of the downloads. Receiver can employ artificial intelligence AI methods which can be facilitated by AI component as illustrated. The various embodiments in connection with selectively receiving scheduled downloads can employ various AI based schemes e.g. machine learning and reasoning rules based techniques for carrying out various aspects thereof. For example a process for determining if a scheduled download is appropriate for the device determining a best time to accept the download during the available times and so forth can be facilitated through an automatic classifier system and process. For example based on a user or device state AI component can infer that it is an optimal time to receive the scheduled download.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x x x x xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. In the case of accepting scheduled downloads for example attributes can be information included with the download e.g. importance relevance to user and the classes are categories or areas of interest e.g. user preferences or use of the data relevance of the data and so forth .

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification the one or more embodiments can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. through a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. by observing user behavior receiving extrinsic information . For example SVM s are configured through a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria the order in which to receive downloads if more than one is available at a given time whether a scheduled download was missed and should be requested etc. The criteria can include but is not limited to the type of data included in each download the content included in each download device information user preferences and so forth.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. It is to be appreciated that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram.

Method starts at when a one or more clients e.g. user device is notified of a forthcoming non critical update. The notification can include a schedule or time e.g. 9 00 p.m. on Friday that the update will be broadcast. The schedule might be an update window such as between 11 00 p.m. on Saturday and 3 00 a.m. on Sunday. In accordance with some aspects alternatives to the schedule can be included in the notification. These alternatives can indicate different times or intervals during which the information will be retransmitted. For example a non critical update can be scheduled to be broadcast three times a day for a week. This allows a client device to selectively choose at least one of the times during which to download the update. Thus if the client is busy and not able to accept the download or out of range e.g. in a different country in an area without good reception or for some other reason misses one of the broadcasts there is an opportunity to receive the broadcast at a later time.

At the update is transmitted at the scheduled time or times. As discussed above the update information can be broadcast at different times in order for the receiving device to have the opportunity to receive and accept the update at an optimal time for the client device e.g. during a period of inactivity . However there might be situations when a client device does not receive the update during the scheduled times. If the client device has missed all scheduled times a request can be received from the client device requesting a retransmission of the update. This retransmission since it is beyond the broadcast scheduling can be sent over a unicast connection rather than broadcast.

In accordance with some aspects the non critical updates can be broadcast over a channel that is separate from one or more other channels being broadcast. Thus when a scheduled update is sent a client device can identify the update based on the channel e.g. the channel information can be sent at substantially the same time as the update notification . During periods when the update is not scheduled to be sent other information can be broadcast on the channel which allows for utilization of available resources. Thus the channel utilized for the update might be a dedicated channel reserved for updates however this is not necessary the channel does not have to be dedicated to the updates .

Method starts at when a notification of a scheduled update is received. This update can be received for non critical updates that can be updated on a client device during a period of low activity. The notification can include a particular time or window during which the update will be broadcast or it can include multiple times or windows during which the update will be broadcast. The window should be long enough or multiple broadcasts should be broadcast for a long enough amount of time to allow the client device the opportunity to selectively receive the update.

At the client device tunes in at the scheduled time to receive the update. Tuning into the update can include initiating a background process automatically without user interaction. A digital broadcast connection can be opened and the data received over the digital broadcast network.

Thus method allows non critical data to be delivered to the client device when the client device is in a low activity period. By initiating the background process and receiving data outside of the primary application the other broadcast channels used when the client device is in a period of high activity can be better purposed to deliver time sensitive data which can provide a robust client experience.

If a scheduled download is not received and the scheduled download period s has expired a request can automatically be sent asking that the download be made available. If appropriate the download can be transmitted to the requesting device through a unicast connection to allow client device to receive and apply the updated information.

With reference to illustrated is an example system that selectively transmits a scheduled download. For example system may reside at least partially within a base station. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which may be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware .

System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act separately or in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include an electrical component for notifying a multitude of clients of a forthcoming update . Pursuant to an illustration the forthcoming update can include non time sensitive data. Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for transmitting the update at a scheduled time .

In accordance with some aspects logical grouping can include an electrical component for classifying an update as a time sensitive update or a non time sensitive update. Also included can be an electrical component for broadcasting the update as real time data and an electrical component for transmitting the non time sensitive update as the forthcoming update. An electrical component for transmitting a time sensitive update at substantially the same time it is broadcast might be included.

Additionally or alternatively logical grouping can include an electrical component for scheduling the forthcoming update at a number of different times to allow the multitude of devices an opportunity to receive the update. Logical grouping can also include an electrical component for determining a time associated with at least one client device and an electrical component for sending the update based on the schedule time associated with the client device.

In accordance with some aspects logical grouping can include an electrical component for receiving a request to send the update at a time different than the scheduled time and an electrical component for sending a unicast dedicated update in response to the request.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and or other components. While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and may exist within memory .

With reference to illustrated is an example system that selectively receives a scheduled download. For example system may reside at least partially within a mobile device. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which may be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware .

System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act separately or in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include an electrical component for receiving a notification of a scheduled update . Pursuant to an illustration the scheduled update can included non time sensitive data. Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for tuning in at the scheduled time to receive the update . The update can be received in a broadcast connection.

In accordance with some aspects logical grouping can include an electrical component for automatically initiating a background functionality and an electrical component for downloading the scheduled update outside a primary application. Additionally or alternatively logical grouping can include an electrical component for receiving alternative times for the scheduled update and an electrical component for selecting at least one of the alternative times for tuning in to receive the update. Further logical grouping can include an electrical component for determining a period of low activity and an electrical component for selecting at least one of the alternative times that occurs during the period of low activity.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and or other components. While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components and may exist within memory .

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. When the systems and or methods are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage component. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor through various means as is known in the art.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. EPROM card stick key drive etc. . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within scope of the appended claims. To the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore the term or as used in either the detailed description of the claims is meant to be a non exclusive or .

