---

title: Method for the electro-addressable functionalization of electrode arrays
abstract: A method for preparing an electrochemical biosensor uses bias-assisted assembly of unreactive -onium molecules on an electrode array followed by post-assembly electro-addressable conversion of the unreactive group to a chemical or biological recognition group. Electro-addressable functionalization of electrode arrays enables the multi-target electrochemical sensing of biological and chemical analytes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09212430&OS=09212430&RS=09212430
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09212430
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to electrochemical biosensors and in particular to a method for the electro addressable functionalization of electrode arrays that can be used for the multi target electrochemical sensing of biological and chemical analytes.

Biosensors make use of the interaction of biological molecules biomolecules as a means of sensing an external environment. Biosensors can be very selective due to the highly specific interactions between biomolecules for example antibodies and their antigens cytokines and their cell surface receptors enzymes and their substrates or nucleic acids with themselves or other molecules. The species being sensed in the environment is referred to as the analyte. Therefore the analyte can be another biological molecule or a chemical that interacts with an immobilized chemical or biological chem bio recognition molecule that has high selectivity for the target analyte. Further signal transduction methods combined with amplification can provide biosensors with high sensitivity. These properties selectivity and sensitivity make biosensors particularly attractive as analytical devices.

A biosensor preferably can analyze multiple analytes simultaneously. Therefore microarray technology has become an important tool for high throughput analysis of biological systems. See A. Kozarova et al. 5 1051 2006 and J. Sobek et al. 9 365 2006 . The ability to selectively modify electrode surfaces of a microarray is a critical component in the development of bioelectronics proteomic research tissue engineering clinical diagnostics and chemical and biological sensing. Multi analyte sensors require surface chemistries that are robust and allow for addressable functionalization with peptides nucleic acids proteins and sensitive chemical groups onto closely spaced arrays. See I. Medintz 5 842 2006 and C. Y. Fan et al. . 2006 .

Therefore a need remains for a versatile surface chemistry capable of selective functionalization of an electrode array with controllable surface density and which is compatible with chem bio recognition element immobilization. Such chemistry would facilitate development and fabrication of complex surfaces allowing precise manipulation detection and quantification of chemical and biological compounds.

The present invention is directed to a method for preparing an electrochemical biosensor comprising providing an electrode array comprising a plurality of conducting or semiconducting electrodes assembling phenyl molecules having an unreactive group from an aryl diazonium salt on the plurality of electrodes and applying a bias voltage to at least one selected electrode of the electrode array to convert the unreactive group of the assembled phenyl molecules to a reactive group on the selected electrodes. The phenyl molecules can be assembled via bias assisted electrodeposition from the aryl diazonium salt. The reactive group can be converted post assembly to a chemical or biological recognition group that has selectivity for a target analyte.

The resulting biosensor can be used to detect the target analyte s either directly label free or indirectly labeled or mediated . For example the target analyte can be detected directly via electrochemical reaction between the modified electrode and the target analyte. Alternatively the target can be detected by inducing a change in the electron transfer properties of the modified electrode upon target analyte binding to or interaction with the surface. Indirect detection can include subsequent binding of labels that include but are not limited to proteins nanoparticles beads or any material that can directly or indirectly affect the electron transfer properties of the modified electrode surface.

The onium molecule can comprise diazonium iodonium or sulfonium and is preferably an aryl diazonium. The unreactive group can comprise a nitro group or a boronic acid pinacol ester. The reactive group can comprise an amino carboxyl or boronic acid group. The chem bio recognition molecule can comprise a native modified or synthetic biomolecule such as an antibody protein enzyme DNA RNA peptide or whole cell or a chemically sensitive group including pyrroloquinoline quinone PQQ .

The direct electrically addressable activation of electrodes in an electrode array using onium surface chemistry is highly suitable for electrochemical sensing. For example the method can be used to selectively convert nitrophenyl diazonium modified electrodes to aminophenyl electrodes activating the surface towards reactions that utilize the reactive amine groups. The activated electrodes can be readily functionalized using common amine coupling chemistry. The unactivated electrodes retain the nitro functional group and are protected from mild chemical reactions and non specific absorption. Additionally phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester diazonium modified electrodes can be deprotected chemically and reprotected with a 1 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl propane 1 2 diol MPMP diol reprotection unit. This MPMP diol can be removed electrochemically providing a boronic acid surface that is active towards binding of saccharide groups. This interaction can be used to immobilize sugars glycoproteins or whole cells onto electrodes. The onium based method of selective electrode functionalization can enable precise control of film thickness and degree of functionality for multi analyte electrochemical biosensors.

Diazonium molecules self assemble via an electron transfer mechanism on many conducting and semiconducting surfaces such as silicon carbon and metals. The advantages of using diazonium chemistry include a highly stable covalent bond ease of preparation and the ability to selectively modify conducting and semiconducting surfaces with the application of a potential bias. See Delamar et al. 114 5883 1992 and Stewart et al. 126 27 2004 . Diazonium modified electrodes have been used to immobilize many biomolecules including DNA proteins and peptides. See A. Shabani et al. 70 615 2006 C. S. Lee et al. 4 1713 2004 G. Liu and J. J. Gooding 22 7421 2006 M. Dequaire et al. 121 6946 1999 C. Bourdillon et al. 336 113 1992 G. Z. Liu et al. 600 335 2007 and A. Laforgue et al. 21 6855 2005 . The utility of this technique for electrochemical analyte detection sandwich electrochemical immunoassay as well as the ability to individually and selectively address closely spaced microelectrodes for multi analyte detection in an array format has been demonstrated. Diazonium modified protein electrodes have been used to detect HOand cytokines as well as to construct multi analyte immunosensors and to enable the simultaneous electrochemical detection of DNA and protein on the same electrode array. See U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 984 569 to Dirk et al. filed Nov. 9 2004 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 762 414 to Polsky et al. filed Jun. 13 2007 which are incorporated herein by reference.

In is shown the self assembly of an aryl diazonium molecule by direct electrochemical grafting to the surface of a conducting or semiconducting electrode according to the method of Stewart et al. A solution comprising an aryl diazonium salt in an anhydrous solvent e.g. acetonitrile is provided. At step 1 electrochemical reduction of the diazonium salt generates an aryl radical with simultaneous loss of nitrogen. At step 2 the aryl radical can then graft to the conducting or semiconducting surface to provide a covalently bound phenyl monolayer or multilayers. The assembly can be enhanced by applying a negative bias as shown or it can be blocked by applying a positive bias. Advantages to this approach are a highly stable surface ease of preparation and the ability to synthesize diazonium salts with a wide range of functional groups R. Further the ability to create a diazonium modified surface by the application of a potential bias enables the selective functionalization of closely spaced electrically addressable microelectrode surfaces.

In is shown a method of the present invention wherein the functional group R can be an unreactive group that enables post assembly electro addressable conversion to or addition of a chemical or biological recognition group for detection of a target analyte. A solution comprising an onium salt having an electro reducible or oxidizable unreactive group in a solvent is provided. Any onium salt such as diazonium iodonium or sulfonium that can graft to a conducting or semiconducting electrode and allows bias driven reaction and surface functionalization can be used. The onium salt is preferably an aryl onium salt. The aryl onium salt is preferably an aryl diazonium salt as will be used as an example to describe the invention hereinafter. The unreactive group may be blocked protected or inactive towards given chemistries for binding or detecting chemical or biological molecules. The unreactive group can be located on any position on the phenyl ring of the aryl diazonium and more than one unreactive group or differing groups can be located on a given phenyl ring. The conducting or semiconducting electrode can be a bare conducting or semiconducting electrode or a substrate coated with a thin film or other surface modification as long as diazonium grafting can occur.

At step 1 electrochemical reduction of the aryl diazonium salt generates an aryl radical not shown with simultaneous loss of nitrogen. The aryl radical can then graft to the electrode surface to provide an unreactive bound diazonium electrode . This assembly can be assisted by applying a negative bias as shown or it can be blocked by applying a positive bias.

At step 2 the unreactive group of the bound aryl diazonium electrode can be activated replaced converted or deprotected to provide a reactive group through an electrode selective bias driven reaction. The unreactive bound diazonium molecule can be made reactive by negative biasing of the electrode which electrochemically converts the unreactive deactivated group to a different group activated that is more reactive. One or more electrodes of a multi electrode array can be biased to enable electro addressable conversion of the selected inactive diazonium electrodes to activated diazonium electrodes .

At step 3 a biological or chemical recognition molecule can react with the reactive group of the activated diazonium electrode through specific coupling chemistries to provide a chemical or biological recognition group on an electroactive diazonium electrode . The recognition molecule can be any native modified or synthetic biomolecule such as an antibody protein enzyme DNA RNA peptide whole cell etc. or chemical group that has selectivity for a target analyte. Alternatively the reactive group itself can be the chem bio recognition group . Coupling or crosslinking chemistries include but are not limited to free amine groups on the surface of the chem bio recognition molecule coupled to a bound aryl diazonium that has an activating carboxyl functional group on the phenyl ring. Alternatively molecule that has an amine functional group. Additional chemistries include but are not limited to boronic acid groups binding to saccharides maleimide groups binding to thiols biotin groups binding to streptavidin etc. In practice a plurality of such electroactive bound diazonium molecules form a chem bio selective layer on the surface of the electrode enabling electrochemical detection of the target analyte s . The surface density of the bound diazonium molecules can be controlled by the electrodeposition protocol.

In is shown an example of the method of the present invention wherein diazonium chemistry was used for the selective functionalization of electrodes of an array with controlled surface density of the NADH oxidant PQQ. The nicotinamide redox co factor NAD is essential for the biocatalytic activation of over 300 dehydrogenase enzymes e.g. lactate dehydrogenase alcohol dehydrogenase glucose dehydrogenase . See E. Simon and P. N. Bartlett Rusling J. F. Ed. Marcel Dekker New York pp 499 544 2003 . Detection of the biocatalytically produced NADH co factor has been used to measure enzymatic activity for respective substrate molecules e.g. lactate malate and ethanol in which the NADH molecule serves to shuttle electrons from enzyme to anode. See A. Bardea et al. 119 9114 1997 I. Willner and A. Riklin 66 1535 1994 P. Ramesh et al. 528 82 2002 G. T. R. Palmore et al. 443 155 1998 and I. Willner et al. 44 209 1998 . The exemplary method comprises the electro addressable activation of diazonium modified gold electrodes for selective functionalization of the array. The electrodes were modified with 4 nitrophenyl diazonium. Addressed electro reduction of nitro groups to amines allowed selective immobilization of pyrroloquinoline quinone PQQ . The activated electrodes showed great efficacy towards the oxidation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide NADH . Electrodes that were not electro reduced to the amine were not functionalized with PQQ retaining deactivated nitro functionality and were protected from non specific absorption and mild chemical reactions.

At step 1 4 nitrophenyl diazonium molecules were electrodeposited onto an array of clean gold electrodes and via bias assisted assembly. The 500 m diameter gold disk arrayed electrodes and were prepared via thermal evaporation of a 200 Ti adhesion layer followed by 2000 of Au onto a Pyrex wafer. The Au electrodes were piranha cleaned 5 3 conc. sulfuric acid 30 HO for 5 min washed with nanopure water and dried under a stream of nitrogen. The nitrophenyl diazonium salt 4 nitrophenyl tetrafluoroborate 40 was synthesized according to the method of Doyle. See M. P. Doyle and J. W. Bryker 44 1572 1979 . The aryl diazonium salt has a nitro group NOthat it not reactive deactivated towards carbodiimide coupling chemistry at the para position of the phenyl ring. Nitrophenyl diazonium thin films were assembled onto the clean gold electrodes using chronoamperometry linear sweep or cyclic sweep methods in a solution of 1 mM nitrophenyl diazonium and 0.1 M tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate BuNBF in acetonitrile ACN . After electrodeposition the electrodes were briefly rinsed with ACN followed by an ethanol rinse and a 15 second sonication in ethanol to remove any adsorbed nitrophenyl diazonium. After sonication the electrodes were again rinsed in ethanol and dried under a stream of nitrogen to provide the covalently bound nitrophenyl diazonium electrodes .

Grazing angle FTIR was used to verify assembly of the nitrophenyl diazonium molecules on the gold electrodes and retention of the nitro functional group. In are shown the grazing incidence FTIR spectra of nitrobenzene and a 1 cm diameter gold electrode prepared from a 10 cycle cyclic voltammetry CV electrodeposition of 4 nitrophenyl diazonium. The two sharp peaks at 1528 cmand 1352 cmare common to both the nitrobenzene and the 4 nitrophenyl diazonium assembled electrode spectra. These absorption stretches are characteristic of the asymmetric and symmetric stretch modes respectively of the nitro group and provide strong evidence that the nitrophenyl diazonium assembled onto the gold substrate with the nitro functional group intact and unreduced. A control electrode immersed in nitrophenyl diazonium assembly solution for 3 minutes without bias CV followed by brief sonication and rinsing did not produce significant absorption stretches.

The surface density of the bound nitrophenyl diazonium molecules can be controlled by the electrodeposition protocol. Four different protocols were used for electrodeposition assembly 1 1 minute duration chronoamperometric CA step to 1 V 2 linear sweep LS from 0 to 1 V at 100 mV s 3 CV from 0 to 1 to 0 V at 100 mV s and 4 2 CVs from 0 to 1 to 0 V at 100 mV s. In Table 1 are shown the average diazonium film thicknesses for electrodes prepared from these different protocols as measured by ellipsometry. Potential sweep protocols LS and CV produced the thickest films. Further electrodes prepared from increased number of CV sweeps showed increased film thickness per longer deposition times. However variability in film thickness uniformity also increased with increasing number of sweeps.

Returning now to at step 2 selected 4 nitrophenyl modified electrodes were activated towards carbodiimide chemistry by electro reduction of the unreactive nitrophenyl groups NO in protic medium to aminophenyl groups NH which are active towards carbodiimide chemistry. Conversion of the selected nitrophenyl modified electrodes to aminophenyl modified electrodes was achieved by cyclic voltammetry from 300 to 1300 mV in deoxygenated argon sparge ethanol water 1 9 solution with 0.1 M KCl as electrolyte.

In are shown cyclic voltammograms of nitrophenyl modified gold electrodes in a 0.1 M KCl ethanol water 1 9 solution v 100 mV s under argon. The electrodeposition methods for nitrophenyl modification were 1 min CA a 1 LS b 1 CV c and 2 CVs d . The first reductive sweep in aqueous solution produces a sharp wave corresponding to the six electron reduction reaction of nitrophenyl to aminophenyl. This peak was not observed in subsequent sweeps indicating complete conversion of all electrically accessible nitro groups. The area of the reduction peak corresponds to the total charge transferred during the reaction and hence the number of electrically accessible nitro groups on the electrode surface. In Table 1 is shown the surface concentration of accessible nitro groups. The greatest surface concentration of NOcorresponds to the electrode assembled with 2 CVs and is followed by electrodes prepared from 1 CV 1 LS and 1 min CA respectively. This trend agrees with the average film thickness data obtained from ellipsometry. The greater rate of increase in NOgroup surface concentration compared to the increase in total film thickness indicates an increasing density of the thin film during deposition. The potential at which the reduction wave occurs also shifts in the negative direction for electrodes assembled with increased film thickness. The higher overpotential required for the reduction reaction is a manifestation of the higher resistance to electron transfer due to the increasing film thickness. This trend also correlated well with film thickness data obtained from ellipsometry. After the initial nitro reduction wave a small reversible wave was observed centered near 400 mV. This reaction is likely the reoxidation reduction of 4 hydroxylamino phenyl groups which are intermediates of the nitro to amine reduction reaction. See M. Delmar et al. 35 801 1997 .

Returning now to at step 3 following reduction of the nitrophenyl to aminophenyl groups the activated electrodes were functionalized with PQQ via carbodiimide chemistry which forms amide bonds between primary amines and carboxylic acid groups. After activation the electrodes were rinsed in water dried under a stream of nitrogen and immersed into a solution of 10 mM 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDC 1 mM N hydroxysuccinimide NHS and 1 mM pyrroloquinoline quinone PQQ in 10 mM 2 4 2 Hydroxyethyl 1 piperazine ethanesulfonic acid HEPES buffer pH 7.5. After two hours of treatment in this solution the electrodes were again rinsed in water and dried with nitrogen. When treated with PQQ in the presence of EDC and NHS an amide bond is formed between the amino activated electrodes and carboxyl groups on PQQ to provide the electroactive PQQ modified phenyl diazonium surface on the selected electrodes and . The electroactive electrodes have selectivity for the analyte NADH.

In are shown cyclic voltammograms of PQQ functionalized gold electrodes in 0.1 M tris HCl buffer pH 7.4 v 200 mV s under argon. The electrodeposition methods for nitrophenyl modification were 1 min CA a 1 LS b 1 CV c and 2 CVs d . A quasi reversible redox wave with formal potential E 144 mV was observed. This formal potential is similar to that reported for PQQ immobilized to a gold electrode via a self assembling monolayer of cystamine E 160 vs. Ag AgCl at pH 7.0. See E. Katz et al. 367 59 1994 . Further control experiments with nitrophenyl and aminophenyl modified electrodes treated with PQQ solution in the absence of EDC and NHS failed to generate redox waves in the window of interest. Peak separation E at v 25 mV s was 18 mV. This Eis greater than the theoretical 0 mV expected for reversible surface confined species but less than the 30 mV expected for two electron transfer diffusion based electrochemistry. This low E and the linear dependence of peak currents on potential scan rates obtained for the PQQ modified electrodes are characteristic of a surface confined electroactive species.

In Table 1 is shown the surface concentration of immobilized PQQ calculated from the area of the reduction waves. A strong correlation is again observed between diazonium film thickness NOsurface concentration and the surface concentration of PQQ. Electrodes prepared from 1 min CA showed nearly all converted NOgroups reacted to immobilize PQQ. This suggests that the nitrophenyl film formed a monolayer with uniform density such that immobilized PQQ did not sterically hinder unconjugated PQQ from binding to nearby free amine binding sites. In contrast only 17 of converted NOgroups reacted to bind PQQ from the 1 LS deposition. Explanations for this observation include steric hindrance of the large PQQ molecules blocking access to free surface amino groups. Additionally as increasing layers of nitrophenyl are deposited more NOgroups are converted to amines. However converted amine groups on layers closer to the electrode are not accessible to the reaction solution and are not conjugated. This same trend is followed for electrodes prepared from 1 and 2 CV depositions. The immobilized concentration and density of NOgroups increases while only non sterically hindered groups on the outermost layer accessible to the solution are conjugated.

The heterogeneous electron transfer coefficient k for electrodes prepared from the four electrodeposition protocols were also calculated and reported in Table 1. As expected lower kvalues were obtained as diazonium film thickness increased indicating a trade off between PQQ surface coverage and facile electron transfer between PQQ and the electrode. A product of this trade off may be the current response obtained from the PQQ modified electrode prepared from 2 CVs shown in . Although the reduction wave closely follows the increasing PQQ density trend of the other electrodes the oxidation wave has broadened and shifted significantly more positive when compared to the oxidation wave obtained from the other 3 assembly protocols. This result was highly reproducible and may be due either to crossing a threshold for increased resistance to oxidative electron transfer at average film thicknesses greater than approximately 10 or electrostatic interactions with nearby PQQ groups as the conjugated surface density increases.

In are shown cyclic voltammograms of the catalytic nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide NADH oxidation at PQQ functionalized gold electrodes in 10 mM NADH 20 mM Ca 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.4 v 20 mV s. The electrodeposition methods for nitrophenyl modification were 1 min CA a 1 LS b 1 CV c and 2 CVs d . The cyclic voltammograms showed an enhanced oxidative wave and no reduction wave characteristic of catalytic electrochemical oxidation. It has been reported that the presence of Ca enhances the catalytic current obtained from NADH oxidation via PQQ. See E. Katz et al. 373 189 1994 . The overall magnitude of the current response in relation to the four different immobilization strategies was directly proportional to the surface coverage of the immobilized PQQ. This suggests that under the relatively small time frame of these experiments v 20 mV s that increasing the number of catalytic sites or immobilized PQQ has a greater effect on current output than the decrease in kobtained from thicker films. No catalytic oxidative current was observed from a PQQ functionalized electrode prepared from a 2 CV nitrophenyl diazonium electrodeposition in the absence of NADH e .

Amperometric detection of NADH was performed using a PQQ functionalized electrode prepared from a 2 CV electrodeposition held at a constant potential of 100 mV in a stirred solution. shows a graph of chronoamperometric response of a PQQ functionalized electrode prepared from a 2 CV nitrophenyl diazonium electrodeposition at a potential of 100 mV in 20 mM Ca 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer pH 7.4 with stirring and three subsequent additions each of 0.5 mM and 2.0 mM NADH. A fast current response is obtained reaching a steady state value in 5 10 seconds. The change in current upon NADH injection was linear with respect to NADH concentration up to 10 mM with saturation occurring at concentrations near 30 mM as shown in . The detection limit was approximately 100 M NADH and is comparable to that reported for other PQQ based NADH detection systems.

Recently there has been much interest in the development of cell arrays for such areas as drug screening gene expression profiling stem cell differentiation understanding higher level organization of tissues and organisms and other developing fields involving biology systems functions. Cell based arrays have the potential to lead to a new generation of powerful biosensors as living cells contain specific biological and chemical receptors with processes that respond to minute concentrations of molecules. The ability to easily control the spatial organization and interactions between populations of cells would also prove valuable for research involving cell cell or host pathogen interactions and cell signaling pathways.

Some common cell attachment and detachment protocols utilize native poly and oligo saccharides that are present in the outer cellular wall or membrane and can bind to many sugar specific proteins and antibodies. So called artificial lectins such as boronic acid can form esters with diols to generate five or six membered cyclic complexes that can also be exploited to capture cells. See A. E. Ivanov et al. 12 7204 2006 . The boronic acid saccharide interaction is particularly attractive for a number of reasons. In the physiological pH range of 6.8 7.5 boronic acid provides a stable boronate anion that reacts with 1 2 or 1 3 diols forming reversible complexes. The formation of this complex is highly dependant upon the nature of a given saccharide and has been exploited in numerous applications. See S. Liu and B. Miller 7 1232 2005 .

In is shown another example of the method of the present invention wherein phenyl boronic acid diazonium salts are used to activate individual electrodes of an electrode array for facile and reversible cell immobilization e.g. yeast and macrophage . Phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester diazonium 50 was synthesized with a pinacol ester blocking group on the boronic acid. To synthesize synthesis the diazonium salt nitrosonium tetrafluoroborate NOBF 0.315 g 2.69 mmoles was dissolved in anhydrous acetonitrile ACN 5 mL under nitrogen and then cooled to 40 C. The 4 aminophenylboronic acid pinacol ester 0.53 g 2.42 mmole was dissolved in 12 mL of ACN under nitrogen. The amine solution was added slowly by cannula to the stirred 40 C. solution of the NOBF. The resulting solution was stirred 1 hour at 40 C. and then allowed to warm to 0 C. and then stirred an additional 10 minutes. This solution was cannulated into 800 mL of rapidly stirred cold diethyl ether in air. The resulting precipitate was collected on a buchner funnel and dried under vacuum. This synthesis provided an 83 yield 0.64 g 2.0 mmoles of 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl benzenediazonium.

An array of individual electrodes was prepared for electrodeposition of the diazonium salt . 500 m diameter gold disk arrayed electrodes spaced 1.5 mm apart and 5 mm diameter gold disk electrodes were prepared via thermal evaporation of a 200 Ti adhesion layer followed by 2000 of Au onto a Pyrex wafer. The gold electrodes were cleaned immediately before use with freshly prepared piranha 5 3 conc. sulfuric acid 30 HO for 5 min washed with nanopure water and dried under a stream of nitrogen.

At step 1 phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester diazonium 50 was electrodeposited onto the electrode forming a pinacol ester blocked phenylborate modified electrode surface . For this example the phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester thin films were assembled onto the clean gold electrodes using cyclic voltammetry in a solution of 1 mM phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester diazonium and 0.1 M tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate BuNBF in ACN. After electrodeposition the electrodes were briefly rinsed with ACN followed by a rinse with ethanol and a 15 second sonication in ethanol to remove any absorbed phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester diazonium. After sonication the electrodes were again rinsed in ethanol and dried under a stream of nitrogen.

At step 2 the pinacol ester blocking group was chemically deprotected with an oxidant sodium periodate NaIO forming a phenyl boronic acid surface . For this example the protected electrodes were treated with 100 l of 50 mM NaIO 4 1 water THF for 30 min to remove the pinacol blocking ester rinsed with water and dried under nitrogen.

At step 3 the deprotected electrodes were reblocked with a MPMP diol reprotection unit . For this example 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl acetate was allowed to react with excess methylmagnesium bromide in tetrahydrofuran THF to provide after aqueous workup 1 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylpropan 2 ol. This was brominated with NBS in carbon tetrachloride at reflux for 12 hours. Hydroylsis of the resulting 1 bromo 1 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylpropan 2 ol was performed with freshly prepared silver carbonate in aqueous acetone. The resulting 1 4 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl propane 1 2 diol MPMP diol was identical spectroscopically with that reported in the literature. See J. Yan et al. 46 8503 2005 . The unblocked electrode was then treated with 100 l of 10 mM MPMP diol reprotection unit in anhydrous toluene for 30 min to provide the reprotected electrode . The reprotected electrodes comprised para methoxybenzyl groups that provide a protecting group that can be removed through oxidation. The MPMP diol protecting group has been previously used to protect borate esters. See J. Yan et al. 46 8503 2005 .

At step 4 electro addressable deprotection was again used to provide a phenyl boronic acid surface but only at the electrically bias electrodes. For this example the second deprotection was performed electrochemically by applying a 0.6 V potential to a selected electrode in 0.1 M phosphate buffer pH 7.4 for 60 sec followed by rinsing with water and drying under nitrogen. The electrochemical deprotection oxidizes the MPMP diol to 2 hydroxy 1 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methylpropan 1 one which cannot bind effectively to the boric acid thereby shifting the equilibrium to the free boronic acid. See J. Yan et al. 46 8503 2005 . The boronic acid surface is active towards binding of saccharide groups. This interaction can be used to immobilize sugars glycoproteins or whole cells onto the selected electrodes that have specific biological or chemical receptors to detect a target analyte.

In are shown cyclic voltammograms from the first and second cycles of 1 mM phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester diazonium in acetonitrile electrodeposition onto a gold disk electrode i.e. step 1 . The first cycle a exhibits a well defined reproducible and irreversible reduction peak at 0.089V vs. Ag AgNOwith a small shoulder at about 0.14V. This first sharp peak is absent on subsequent scans as shown in the second scan in b and is attributed to the electroreduction of the diazonium functional group. This leads to the elimination of di nitrogen and the production of an aryl radical that can react with the electrode surface forming a covalent bond between the aryl group and the electrode.

Grazing angle FTIR ellipsometry and contact angle measurements were made in order to understand and verify the chemistry of the assembled films and at each step of their chemical manipulation shown in . shows measurements for phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester surface. shows measurements for a chemically deprotected boronic acid surface. shows measurements for a MPMP diol reprotected surface. shows measurements for an electrochemically deprotected boronic acid surface. Standard deviations were calculated from 8 or more independent measurements on each of 3 electrodes sampled.

Films of thickness corresponding to approximately 1.7 equivalent monolayers 17.5 3.8 of the phenyl boronic acid pinacolate ester were assembled onto gold from the diazonium precursor using cyclic voltammetry. As expected the contact angle for water on this surface was greater than 90 . The FTIR shows CH modes at ca 3000 cmand 1090 cmand weak aromatic modes at 1609 cmand a clear B O bending mode at 1363 cm. The FTIR also shows a broad weak O H stretch at 3500 cmpresumably due to some inadvertent hydrolysis. After deprotection by periodate the contact angle of the film drops to 53 as expected for a film with increased hydrophilicity . The surface thickness also fell by 5.9 which is near the 3.3 length of the pinacol ester blocking group. The FTIR indicates a large increase in the OH stretch relative to the CH modes at 3000 cm. The deprotection has also enhanced the phenyl ring modes at 1661 cm. This mode seems to be suppressed by substitution on the boronic acid it vanishes during reblocking of the boronic acid by the MPMP diol. Reblocking of the free boronic acid by the MPMP diol is more complicated. Presumably since the reblocking was performed in anhydrous toluene the product should be trigonal borate. However inadvertent hydrolysis and steric crowding may result in incomplete borate ester formation. Nonetheless the contact angle of the reblocked film increased to over 90 and the film thickness increased by elipsometric measurements as expected for the replacement of the pinacol by the larger MPMP diol . Grazing angle FTIR indicates a much weaker OH stretch relative to the CH modes at ca 3000 cm. Again the substitution of the boronic acid for an ester decreases the strength of the aromatic ring modes. The peak at 1729 cmsuggests the presence of a ketone. This ketone might be the result from some oxidation of the MPMP diol by trapped periodate or possibly from the formation of some perborate and subsequent sequestration in the film. Electrochemical deblocking of the film decreases the contact angle to nearly that of the chemically deblocked film i.e. compare to . Likewise ellipsometry reveals that the film decreased in thickness but not quite to the original phenyl boronic acid film thickness which again may suggest that some of the oxidation products are trapped in the film. FTIR reveals the 1660 cmaromatic mode that seems to reflect that the presence of the free boronic acid is restored. The OH peak again increased in intensity.

The regeneration of the boronic acid is indirectly verified electrochemically using dopamine oxidation as shown by the cyclic voltammograms in . The potential scan rate was v 100 mV sec. Dopamine forms a boronate ester upon reacting with boronic acid that is oxidized at a more positive potential than what is needed to oxidize unconjugated dopamine. No redox peaks were observed in the potential region of interest in a blank phosphate buffer saline solution pH 7.4 for both the boronic acid surface a and the bare gold electrode not shown . Upon addition of 1 mM dopamine the bare gold electrode shows a redox couple at 0.19 0.11 V corresponding to the 2 e 2 H oxidation reduction of dopamine b . The phenyl boronic acid modified electrode showed this same redox couple at 0.098 0.05V and an additional broad oxidation wave centered near 0.48 V c which is due to the oxidation of the boronate ester formed between the functional boronic acid groups on the electrode surface and dopamine. This demonstrates the presence of unprotected boronic acid functional groups on the electrode surface.

The affinity for yeast cell adhesion was determined for each of the four surfaces. The prepared electrodes were first conditioned for one hour in 100 mM Tris HCl pH 8.5 washed with water and dried with nitrogen. 100 l of yeast cells 1 10cells ml or macrophage cells 1 3 10cells ml in 0.1 M phosphate buffer pH 7.4 were placed onto the electrodes for two min and gently washed three times with buffer. A single colony of strain INVSc1 was inoculated into 5 ml of YPD. The solution was cultured overnight at 30 C. in a shaking incubator at 250 rpm. ODwas measured. The overnight culture was then diluted into fresh YPD to an ODequal to 0.5 in a total volume of 1 ml of YPD. Murine macrophage strain RAW 264.7 was maintained according to the manufacture protocol. The electrodes were treated with 100 l of 20 mM fructose in 100 mM Tris HCl pH 8.5 for 30 min and washed three times with buffer. The regeneration of the boronic acid groups was accomplished by removing bound fructose with 100 l of 0.1 M phosphate solution pH 3.3 for 30 min followed by rinsing with buffer and conditioning the electrodes in 0.1 M Tris HCl pH 8.5 for 12 hours.

In are shown microscope images of each prepared electrode. The images show cells adhere only to the de blocked boronic acid surfaces b and d while very few cells have non specifically bound to the two blocked surfaces a and c showing activity consistent with the steps shown in and in agreement with the contact angle and FTIR data shown in . Adhesion of the yeast cells was stable overnight.

Competitive binding of sugars was examined as a possible method for cell detachment. Fructose in particular has a particularly high affinity for aryl boronic acids in the pH range 7 9. A prepared electrode electrochemically deblocked exposed to yeast cells and then incubated for 30 min with 20 mM fructose 100 mM Tris HCl pH 8.5 indicated an almost complete removal of cells as shown in a and b respectively . Bound fructose was then removed by treatment with phosphate solution pH 3. After reconditioning with 100 mM Tris HCl pH 8.5 and exposure to yeast cells the apparent activity of the boronic acid groups seems unaffected as indicated by the subsequent reattachment of cells as shown in FIG. B c . The ability to release the attached cells via a fructose treatment and regeneration of the surface for subsequent cellular adhesion indicates that this electrode can be used as a reusable platform for cell capture with on demand release.

The utility of this technique to selectively immobilize cells in an array format is presented in . Two closely spaced individually addressable 0.5 mm gold disk electrodes were modified up to step 3 reprotected electrode as shown in . One electrode was oxidatively treated at 0.6 V for 1 min in 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.4 to de protect the boronic acid group and both were exposed to the same yeast cell solution. As can be seen in the microscope pictures the blocked electrode in FIG. C a shows few cells adhere to the surface while the electrochemically de protected electrode in FIG. C b shows excellent cell adhesion properties. The replacement of the methoxy group of the MPMP diol with a short ethoxylate chain can further improve the selectivity by decreasing the effects of nonspecific binding. Ethoxylated surfaces are well known to decrease the formation of biological films. This electrochemical activation of a boronic acid surface allows a great deal of control over the spatial confinement of cells in biosensors which contain a high density of working electrodes. This method enables more complex cellular studies by providing a simple method to pattern differing cell types on closely spaced arrayed electrodes or the modification of electrodes near the captured cells with chemical or biological sensitive groups which can monitor the cells environment or response to stimuli in real time.

The method is also compatible with more sensitive and relevant mammalian cells. Murine macrophage cells were immobilized onto a phenyl boronic acid modified gold electrode as shown in using the same protocol as described for yeast immobilization. A treatment of the surface in fructose solution was again successful in releasing the captured cells as shown in . Additionally captured cell viability was monitored in 1 PBS buffer pH 7.4 at 37 C. 30 60 and 120 minutes post immobilization. These time frames are relevant to many cell cell and cell signaling interaction studies. After 30 minutes roughly 3 1 of the immobilized cells had died. After 60 minutes an additional 3 2 of cells died. Finally after 120 minutes approximately 13 4 if the cells had died. Death is likely due to the lack of defined nutrients in the buffer solution and can be minimized by determining which media components can be added to the buffer without affecting cellular immobilization to the boronic acid surface. Still nearly 80 of the immobilized cells remain viable over 2 hours in buffer immobilized onto the gold electrodes demonstrating the utility of this method for many diverse cell based studies.

The present invention has been described as a method for preparing an electrochemical biosensor by the electro addressable functionalization of electrode arrays. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

