---

title: Hydroxy methyl phenyl pyrazolyl urea compounds useful in the treatment of cancer
abstract: The compound 4-{4-[({3-tert-Butyl-1-[3-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl]-1H-pyrazol-5-yl}carbamoyl)amino]-3-fluorophenoxy}-N-methylpyridine-2-carboxamide and alternative forms thereof (e.g., salts, solvates, hydrates, prodrugs, polymorphs and metabolites); pharmaceutical compositions which contain them; and methods for treating cancer using them.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08101773&OS=08101773&RS=08101773
owner: Bayer Healthcare LLC
number: 08101773
owner_city: Tarrytown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071220
---
This application is a National Stage Entry of PCT US2007 088365 filed Dec. 20 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No s . 60 875 830 filed Dec. 20 2006 and 60 986 773 filed Nov. 9 2007.

This invention relates to novel hydroxy methyl phenyl pyrazolyl urea compounds pharmaceutical compositions containing such compounds and the use of these compounds or compositions for treating hyper proliferative and or angiogenesis disorders as a sole agent or in combination with other active ingredients e.g. cytotoxic therapies.

To support progressive tumor growth beyond the size of 1 2 mm it is recognized that tumor cells require a functional stroma a support structure consisting of fibroblast smooth muscle cells endothelial cells extracellular matrix proteins and soluble factors Folkman J. 2002 29 6 Suppl 16 15 8 . Tumors induce the formation of stromal tissues through the secretion of soluble growth factors such as PDGF and transforming growth factor beta TGF beta which in turn stimulate the secretion of complimentary factors by host cells such as fibroblast growth factor FGF epidermal growth factor EGF and vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF . These stimulatory factors induce the formation of new blood vessels or angiogenesis which brings oxygen and nutrients to the tumor and allows it to grow and provides a route for metastasis. It is believed some therapies directed at inhibiting stroma formation will inhibit the growth of epithelial tumors from a wide variety of histological types. George D. 2001 28 5 Suppl 17 27 33 Shaheen R. M. et al. 2001 61 4 1464 8 Shaheen R. M. et al. 1999 59 21 5412 6 . However because of the complex nature and the multiple growth factors involved in angiogenesis process and tumor progression an agent targeting a single pathway may have limited efficacy. It is desirable to provide treatment against a number of key signaling pathways utilized by tumors to induce angiogenesis in the host stroma. These include for example PDGF a potent stimulator of stroma formation Ostman A. and C. H. Heldin 2001 80 1 38 FGF a chemo attractant and mitogen for fibroblasts and endothelial cells and VEGF a potent regulator of vascularization. HGF hepatocyte growth factor represents an additional signalling growth factor of interest.

PDGF is a key regulator of stromal formation which is secreted by many tumors in a paracrine fashion and is believed to promote the growth of fibroblasts smooth muscle and endothelial cells promoting stroma formation and angiogenesis. PDGF was originally identified as the v sis oncogene product of the simian sarcoma virus Heldin C. H. et al. 1985 3 65 76 . The growth factor is made up of two peptide chains referred to as A or B chains which share 60 homology in their primary amino acid sequence. The chains are disulfide cross linked to form the 30 kDa mature protein composed of either AA BB or AB homo or heterodimmers. PDGF is found at high levels in platelets and is expressed by endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells. In addition the production of PDGF is up regulated under low oxygen conditions such as those found in poorly vascularized tumor tissue Kourembanas S. et al. 1997 51 2 438 43 . PDGF binds with high affinity to the PDGF receptor PDGFR a 1106 amino acid 124 kDa transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor Heldin C. H. A. Ostman and L. Ronnstrand 1998 1378 1 79 113 . PDGFR is found as homo or heterodimer chains which have 30 homology overall in their amino acid sequence and 64 homology between their kinase domains Heldin C. H. et al. 1988 7 5 1387 93 . PDGFR is a member of a family of tyrosine kinase receptors with split kinase domains that includes VEGFR2 KDR VEGFR3 Flt4 c Kit and FLT3. The PDGF receptor is expressed primarily on fibroblast smooth muscle cells and pericytes and to a lesser extent on neurons kidney mesangial Leydig and Schwann cells of the central nervous system. Upon binding to the receptor PDGF induces receptor dimerization and undergoes auto and trans phosphorylation of tyrosine residues which increase the receptors kinase activity and promotes the recruitment of downstream effectors through the activation of SH2 protein binding domains. A number of signaling molecules form complexes with activated PDGFR including PI 3 kinase phospholipase C gamma src and GAP GTPase activating protein for p21 ras Soskic V. et al. 1999 38 6 1757 64 . Through the activation of PI 3 kinase PDGF activates the Rho signaling pathway inducing cell motility and migration and through the activation of GAP induces mitogenesis through the activation of p21 ras and the MAPK signaling pathway.

In adults it is believed the major function of PDGF is to facilitate and increase the rate of wound healing and to maintain blood vessel homeostasis Baker E. A. and D. J. Leaper 2000 8 5 392 8 Yu J. A. Moon and H. R. Kim 2001 282 3 697 700 . In addition to its role in wound healing PDGF is known to help maintain vascular homeostasis. During the development of new blood vessels PDGF recruits pericytes and smooth muscle cells that are needed for the structural integrity of the vessels. PDGF is thought to play a similar role during tumor neovascularization. As part of its role in angiogenesis PDGF controls interstitial fluid pressure regulating the permeability of vessels through its regulation of the interaction between connective tissue cells and the extracellular matrix. Inhibiting PDGFR activity can lower interstitial pressure and facilitate the influx of cytotoxics into tumors improving the anti tumor efficacy of these agents Pietras K. et al. 2002 62 19 5476 84 Pietras K. et al. 2001 61 7 2929 34 .

PDGF can promote tumor growth through either the paracrine or autocrine stimulation of PDGFR receptors on stromal cells or tumor cells directly or through the amplification of the receptor or activation of the receptor by recombination. Over expressed PDGF can transform human melanoma cells and keratinocytes Forsberg K. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 1993. 90 2 393 7 Skobe M. and N. E. Fusenig Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1998. 95 3 1050 5 two cell types that do not express PDGF receptors presumably by the direct effect of PDGF on stroma formation and induction of angiogenesis. This paracrine stimulation of tumor stroma is also observed in carcinomas of the colon lung breast and prostate Bhardwaj B. et al. Clin Cancer Res 1996 2 4 773 82 Nakanishi K. et al. Mod Pathol 1997 10 4 341 7 Sundberg C. et al. Am J Pathol 1997 151 2 479 92 Lindmark G. et al. Lab Invest 1993 69 6 682 9 Vignaud J. M. et al Cancer Res 1994 54 20 5455 63 where the tumors express PDGF but not the receptor. The autocrine stimulation of tumor cell growth where a large faction of tumors analyzed express both the ligand PDGF and the receptor has been reported in glioblastomas Fleming T. P. et al. Cancer Res 1992 52 16 4550 3 soft tissue sarcomas Wang J. M. D. Coltrera and A. M. Gown Cancer Res 1994 54 2 560 4 and cancers of the ovary Henriksen R. et al. Cancer Res 1993 53 19 4550 4 prostate Fudge K. C. Y. Wang and M. E. Stearns Mod Pathol 1994 7 5 549 54 pancreas Funa K. et al. Cancer Res 1990 50 3 748 53 and lung Antoniades H. N. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1992 89 9 3942 6 . Ligand independent activation of the receptor is found to a lesser extent but has been reported in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia CMML where the chromosomal translocation event forms a fusion protein between the Ets like transcription factor TEL and the PDGF receptor. In addition activating mutations in PDGFR have been found in gastrointestinal stromal tumors in which c Kit activation is not involved Heinrich M. C. et al. Science 2003 9 9 .

Certain PDGFR inhibitors will interfere with tumor stromal development and are believed to inhibit tumor growth and metastasis.

Another major regulator of angiogenesis and vasculogenesis in both embryonic development and some angiogenic dependent diseases is vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF also called vascular permeability factor VPF . VEGF represents a family of isoforms of mitogens existing in homodimeric forms due to alternative RNA splicing. The VEGF isoforms are reported to be highly specific for vascular endothelial cells for reviews see Farrara et al. Endocr. Rev. 1992 13 18 Neufield et al. FASEB J. 1999 13 9 .

VEGF expression is reported to be induced by hypoxia Shweiki et al. Nature 1992 359 843 as well as by a variety of cytokines and growth factors such as interleukin 1 interleukin 6 epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor. To date VEGF and the VEGF family members have been reported to bind to one or more of three transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinases Mustonen et al. 1995 129 895 VEGF receptor 1 also known as flt 1 fms like tyrosine kinase 1 VEGFR 2 also known as kinase insert domain containing receptor KDR the murine analogue of KDR is known as fetal liver kinase 1 flk 1 and VEGFR 3 also known as flt 4 . KDR and flt 1 have been shown to have different signal transduction properties Waltenberger et al. 1994 269 26988 Park et al. 1995 10 135 . Thus KDR undergoes strong ligand dependant tyrosine phosphorylation in intact cells whereas flt 1 displays a weak response. Thus binding to KDR is believed to be a critical requirement for induction of the full spectrum of VEGF mediated biological responses.

In vivo VEGF plays a central role in vasculogenesis and induces angiogenesis and permeabilization of blood vessels. Deregulated VEGF expression contributes to the development of a number of diseases that are characterized by abnormal angiogenesis and or hyperpermeability processes. It is believed regulation of the VEGF mediated signal transduction cascade by some agents can provide a useful mode for control of abnormal angiogenesis and or hyperpermeability processes.

The vascular endothelial growth factors VEGF VEGF C VEGF D and their receptors VEGFR2 VEGFR3 are not only key regulators of tumor angiogenesis but also lymphangiogenesis. VEGF VEGF C and VEGF D are expressed in most tumors primarily during periods of tumor growth and often at substantially increased levels. VEGF expression is stimulated by hypoxia cytokines oncogenes such as ras or by inactivation of tumor suppressor genes McMahon G. 2000 5 Suppl. 1 3 10 McDonald N. Q. Hendrickson W. A. 1993 73 421 424 

The biological activities of the VEGFs are mediated through binding to their receptors. It is believed VEGFR3 also called Flt 4 is predominantly expressed on lymphatic endothelium in normal adult tissues and that VEGFR3 function is needed for new lymphatic vessel formation but not for maintenance of the pre existing lymphatics. VEGFR3 is also upregulated on blood vessel endothelium in tumors.

Recently VEGF C and VEGF D ligands for VEGFR3 have been identified as regulators of lymphangiogenesis in mammals. Lymphangiogenesis induced by tumor associated lymphangiogenic factors could promote the growth of new vessels into the tumor providing tumor cells access to systemic circulation. Cells that invade the lymphatics could find their way into the bloodstream via the thoracic duct. Tumor expression studies have allowed a direct comparison of VEGF C VEGF D and VEGFR3 expression with clinicopathological factors that relate directly to the ability of primary tumors to spread e.g. lymph node involvement lymphatic invasion secondary metastases and disease free survival . In many instances these studies demonstrate a statistical correlation between the expression of lymphangiogenic factors and the ability of a primary solid tumor to metastasize Skobe M. et al. 2001 7 2 192 198 Stacker S. A. et al. 2001 7 2 186 191 Makinen T. et al. 2001 7 2 199 205 Mandriota S. J. et al. 2001 20 4 672 82 Karpanen T. et al. 2001 61 5 1786 90 Kubo H. et al. 2000 96 2 546 53 .

Hypoxia appears to be an important stimulus for VEGF production in malignant cells. Activation of p38 MAP kinase is required for VEGF induction by tumor cells in response to hypoxia Blaschke F. et al. 2002 296 890 896 Shemirani B. et al. 2002 38 251 257 . In addition to its involvement in angiogenesis through regulation of VEGF secretion p38 MAP kinase promotes malignant cell invasion and migration of different tumor types through regulation of collagenase activity and urokinase plasminogen activator expression Laferriere J. et al. 2001 276 33762 33772 Westermarck J. et al. 2000 60 7156 7162 Huang S. et al. 2000 275 12266 12272 Simon C. et al. 2001 271 344 355 .

The receptor tyrosine kinase TrkA is another target of interest for the preparation of medicines directed at the treatment and prevention of cancer. TrkA is the high affinity receptor of the nerve growth factor NGF . The expression of TrkA and NGF in tumors is believed to be implicated in the proliferation and metastasis of tumors such as pancreatic prostate and also breast as well as in angiogenesis. TrkA expression is reported in pancreatic breast ovarian and prostate tumors. Recent studies demonstrate that human prostate and pancreatic tumor cells can secrete NGF which along with its receptor TrkA creates an autocrine loop that promotes the growth and survival of these tumor cells Ruggeri B. A. et al 1999 6 845 857 Weeraratna A. T. et al. 2000 45 140 148 . Inhibition of the NGF TrkA signaling pathway by small molecule TrkA inhibitors Miknyoczki S. J. et al. 1999 5 2205 2212 George D. J. et al. 1999 59 2395 2401 Weeraratna A. T. et al 2001 7 2237 2245 and anti NGF antibodies Miknyoczki S. J. et al. 2002 8 1924 1931 has been postulated to inhibit not only growth but also metastasis of neuroendocrine tumors in xenograft models. In addition NGF has been shown to induce proliferation of endothelial cells Cantarella G. et al. 2002 16 1307 . These cells which form new vascular networks to feed the growing tumor also express VEGFR2 tyrosine kinase receptors. Activation of these receptors by their ligands leads to endothelial cell proliferation migration and vessel formation and stabilization Albo D. et al. 2004 10 27 37 Thurston G. 2003 31 61 68 .

The proto oncogene c Met a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family encodes a heterodimeric complex consisting of a 140 kDa membrane spanning chain and a 50 kDa extracellular chain. This heterodimeric complex acts as a high affinity receptor for hepatocyte growth factor HGF or scatter factor SF . c Met HGF signaling is required for normal mammalian development and has been shown to be particularly important in cell growth migration morphogenic differentiation and organization of three dimensional tubular structures e.g. renal tubular cells gland formation etc. . c Met and HGF are widely expressed in a variety of tissues and their expression is normally confined to cells of epithelial and mesenchymal origin respectively. There are now several lines of compelling evidence that HGF c Met signaling has an important role in the development and malignant progression of tumors of various histological types. Cell lines that ectopically overexpress c Met or HGF become tumorigenic and metastatic in nude mice whereas c Met downregulation decreases their tumorigenic potential. HGF dependent autocrine loops are found associated with osteosarcomas rhabdomyosarcomas and breast carcinomas Trusolino and Comoglio 2002 2 289 300 . c Met or HGF transgenic mice develop metastatic tumors Wang R. et al. 2001 153 1023 1034 Takayama et al. 1997 94 701 706 . Over expression of c Met expression has been found in many kinds of solid tumors and correlates with poor prognosis Birchmeier et al. 2003 4 915 925 Christensen J. and Salgia R. 2005 225 1 26 . The unequivocal evidence linking c Met and human cancer comes from the identification of germline activating mutations in patients suffering from hereditary papillary renal carcinomas Dharmawardana et al. 2004 4 855 868 . Finally amplification of the c Met gene was observed in many gastric tumors Ponzetto C. et al. 1991 6 553 9 .

Due to a strong link between c Met HGF signaling pathway and tumorigenesis and tumor progression several therapeutic approaches have been pursued by various groups. HGF SF neutralizing antibodies Cao et al. 2001 98 7443 8 c Met antisense oligonucleotides Kitamura et al. 2000 83 668 73 dominant negative forms of the Met protein Firon et al. 2000 19 2386 97 Furge et al. 2001 98 10722 7 ribozymes that target Met mRNA Abounader et al. 1999 91 1548 56 Abounader et al. 2002 16 108 10 and small molecule c Met kinase inhibitors Christensen et al. 2003 63 7345 55 are being investigated as possible strategies to block c Met activation and suppress tumor growth invasion and metastasis. Identification of a potent inhibitor of c Met kinase activity therefore has the great potential to inhibit tumor growth of various cancer types.

Chronic myelogenous leukemia CML is caused by the oncogenic protein Bcr Abl Groffen J. et al. 1984 3 179 191 Sattler M. and Griffin J. D. 2003 40 4 10 . The Philadelphia chromosome which is the hallmark of CML is formed in CML patients due to a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22 Rowley J. D. 1973 243 290 293 and this translocation results in the formation of Bcr Abl fusion protein Groffen J. and Heisterkamp N. 1987 1 983 999 . Abl protein is a non receptor tyrosine kinase whose activity is tightly regulated in normal cells. However the Bcr Abl fusion protein is constitutively activated due to the presence of Bcr protein at the N terminus. The constitutively active protein transforms at the myeloid blast cell stage thus giving rise to CML Kelliher M. A. et al. 1990 87 6649 6653 . Depending on the exact breakpoints at the chromosomes involved in the translocation the size of the fusion protein varies from 185 to 230 kDa although 210 kDa protein is the most common in CML.

Development of Imatinib Gleevec ST1571 as an inhibitor of Bcr Abl protein to treat CML patients has pioneered the field of targeted therapy in oncology Capdeville R. et al. 2002 1 493 502 . Patients with early phase CML were found to respond to a degree of greater than 90 at both haematological and cytogenetic levels Deininger M. et al. 2005 105 2640 2653 Talpaz M. et al. 2002 99 1928 1937 . However most patients develop resistance to Imatinib after prolonged treatment Gorre M. E. and Sawyers C. L. 2002 9 303 307 . To date more than 30 Imatinib resistant mutations of Bcr Abl have been observed in patients and most of these mutations are confined to a sub domain within the kinase region of the fusion protein. Importantly three mutations namely T315I E255K and M351T represent more than 50 of the Imatinib resistance Deininger M. Buchdunger E. and Druker B. J. 2005 105 2640 2653 .

Recently there has been much effort to overcome the Imatinib resistance in CML patients. For example BMS 354825 dasatinib has been reported to be an inhibitor of Bcr Abl and also Src family kinases. Among the 15 Imatinib resistant Bcr Abl mutations tested in cell based assays BMS 354825 was reported to inhibit all the mutant forms of the protein except T3151 Shah N. P. et al. 2004 305 399 401 . The compound AMN 107 nilotinib has been reported to inhibit Bcr Abl kinase activity with 20 fold greater potency than Imatinib. AMN 107 was reported to inhibit most Imatinib resistant Bcr Abl mutations except for T315I. AMN 107 also shows somewhat weak inhibition in a biochemical assay against the E255K mutant Weisberg E. et al. 2005 7 129 141 . Therefore there is a significant unmet medical need for new therapeutics to treat CML and Imatinib resistant CML.

Certain diaryl ureas have been described as having activity as serine threonine kinase and or tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The utility of these diaryl ureas as an active ingredient in pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of cancer angiogenesis disorders and inflammatory disorders has been demonstrated. See Redman et al. 2001 11 9 12 Smith et al. 2001 11 2775 2778 Dumas et al. 2000 10 2047 2050 Dumas et al. 2000 10 2051 2054 Ranges et al. 2202000149 Dumas et al. 2002 12 1559 1562 Lowinger et al. 2000 6 suppl. 335 Lyons et al. . 2001 8 219 225 Riedl et al. 9220014956 Khire et al. 9320024211 Lowinger et al. 2002 8 99 110 Regan et al. 2002 45 2994 3008 Pargellis et al. 2002 9 4 268 272 Carter et al. 9220014954 Vincent et al. 3820021900 Hilger et al. 3820021916 Moore et al. 3820021816 Strumberg et al. 382002121 Madwed 2002 Roberts et al. 382002473 Tolcher et al. 382002334 and Karp et al. 382753.

Certain urea derivatives including certain pyrazolyl phenyl ureas have been identified as effective inhibitors of protein kinases such as raf kinase and p38 kinase and these compounds were described in Dumas J. et al. Inhibition of p38 Kinase Activity using Aryl and Heteroaryl Substituted Heterocyclic Ureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 32110 and Dumas J. et al. Inhibition of Raf Kinase using Aryl and Heteroaryl Substituted Heterocyclic Ureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 32455. One pyrazolyl phenyl urea compound of interest in WO 99 32110 is Example 37 namely 1 5 tert butyl 2 4 fluoro phenyl 2H pyrazol 3 yl 3 4 pyridin 4 yloxy phenyl urea. Related pyrazole compounds of interest were also described in Regan J. R. et al. Aromatic Heterocyclic Compounds as Anti Inflammatory Agents PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 23091. More recently certain pyrazolyl phenyl ureas having functionalized tail groups as substituents on the pyrazolyl N phenyl group were discovered to be effective protein kinase inhibitors with activities against VEGFR2 PDGFR and Trk A for example these compounds were described in Lee W. et al. Substituted Pyrazolyl Urea Derivatives Useful in the Treatment of Cancer PCT Int. Appl. WO 2005 110994. Other pyrazolyl phenyl urea compounds of interest were recently discovered to be effective inhibitors of for example VEGFR2 c Met Bcr Abl and various mutations of Bcr Abl and these compounds were described in Smith R. et al. Urea Compounds Useful in the Treatment of Cancer PCT Int. Appl. US 0645976 filed Dec. 1 2006 WO 2007 064872 entitled Urea Compounds Useful in the Treatment of Cancer. Compounds of interest in this same patent application from Smith R. et al. incorporate a 4 4 amino phenoxy pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methylamide fragment or 4 4 amino 3 fluoro phenoxy pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methylamide fragment or 4 4 Amino 3 fluoro phenoxy pyridine 2 carboxylic acid amide fragment for example. Related pyrazole compounds of interest were also described in Hoelzemann G. et al. Pyrazole Derivatives PCT Int. Appl. WO 2006 105844. The compound and compositions of the current invention are of particular interest as they exhibit potent activities against for example VEGFR2 wild type Bcr Abl and various mutations of Bcr Abl as well as desirable physicochemical properties such as solubility in aqueous and organic media and desirable in vivo pharmacokinetics and pharmacological profiles.

Despite advancements in the art there remains a need for cancer treatments and anti cancer compounds.

The utility of the compounds of the present invention can be illustrated for example by their activity in the in vitro tumor cell proliferation assay described below. The link between activity in tumor cell proliferation assays in vitro and anti tumor activity in the clinical setting has been very well established in the art. For example the therapeutic utility of taxol Silvestrini et al. 1993 11 6 528 35 taxotere Bissery et al. 1995 6 3 339 and topoisomerase inhibitors Edelman et al. 1996 37 5 385 93 were demonstrated with the use of in vitro tumor proliferation assays.

Compounds and compositions described herein including salts and esters thereof exhibit anti proliferative activity and are thus useful to prevent or treat the disorders associated with hyper proliferation.

It has been discovered that the novel hydroxyl phenyl pyrazolyl urea compounds are potent inhibitors of VEGFR kinase wild type Bcr Abl and various mutations of Bcr Abl including T315I which are all molecular targets of interest for the treatment of proliferative diseases including cancer.

The present invention pertains to i the novel compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and the salts solvates hydrates prodrugs polymorphs and metabolites thereof including diastereoisomeric forms of the salts and prodrugs thereof both as an isolated stereoisomer and forms within a mixture of stereoisomers 

 ii pharmaceutical compositions of the novel compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide or a salt solvate hydrate prodrug polymorph or metabolite thereof including diastereoisomeric forms of the salts and prodrugs thereof and

 iii the use of i or ii for treating hyper proliferative and angiogenesis disorders as sole agents or in combination with cytotoxic therapies.

The compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and the salts hydrates solvates prodrugs polymorphs and metabolites thereof including the diastoeroisomeric forms of salts and prodrugs are collectively referred to as the compounds of the invention .

The metabolites of the compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and other compounds of this invention include oxidized derivatives thereof wherein one or more of the nitrogens are substituted with a hydroxy group. The metabolites also include analogs of the compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and other compounds of this invention where the methylamide group is de methylated by metabolic degradation. The metabolites further include oxidized derivatives of the compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and other compounds of this invention where the nitrogen atom of the pyridine group may be in the oxide form or have a hydroxy substituent and includes those structures referred to in the art as 1 oxo pyridine and 1 hydroxy pyridine.

Where the plural form of the word compounds salts and the like is used herein this is taken to mean also a single compound salt or the like.

The use of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and other compounds of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a relatively non toxic inorganic or organic acid addition salt. For example see S. M. Berge et al. Pharmaceutical Salts 1977 66 1 19.

Representative salts of the compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and other compounds of this invention include the conventional non toxic salts for example from inorganic or organic acids by means well known in the art. For example such acid addition salts include acetate adipate alginate ascorbate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate citrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cinnamate cyclopentanepropionate digluconate dodecylsulfate ethanesulfonate fumarate glucoheptanoate glycerophosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate itaconate lactate maleate mandelate methanesulfonate 2 naphthalenesulfonate nicotinate nitrate oxalate pamoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate propionate succinate sulfonate tartrate thiocyanate tosylate and undecanoate.

Solvates for the purpose of this invention are those forms of the compounds of this invention where solvent molecules form a complex in the solid state and include but are not limited to for example ethanol and methanol. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates where the solvent is water.

The compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and other compounds of this invention can be further modified with labile functional groups that are cleaved after in vivo administration to furnish the parent active agent and the pharmacologically inactive derivatizing functional group. These derivatives commonly referred to as prodrugs can be used for example to alter the physicochemical properties of the active agent to target the active agent to a specific tissue to alter the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of the active agent and to reduce undesirable side effects.

Prodrugs of the compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide and other compounds of the current invention include for example well tolerated and pharmaceutically acceptable esters that can be prepared by acylation of the hydroxyl group. Examples of such ester prodrugs include the esters prepared from acetic propionic butyric isobutyric valeric isovaleric succinic and methoxyacetic acid. Additional examples of ester prodrugs include the esters prepared from amino acids such as D alanine L alanine D valine L valine beta alanine and the like. Other examples of ester prodrugs include the phosphate esters that can be prepared via the bis tert butyl phosphate esters.

Methods for synthesizing prodrugs are described in the following reviews on the subject which are incorporated herein by reference for their description of these methods Higuchi T. Stella V. eds. . ACS Symposium Series. American Chemical Society Washington D.C. 1975 Roche E. B. . American Pharmaceutical Association Washington D.C. 1977 Sinkula A. A. Yalkowsky S. H. 1975 64 181 210 Stella V. J. Charman W. N. Naringrekar V. H. 1985 29 455 473 Bundgaard H. ed. . Elsevier New York 1985 Stella V. J. Himmelstein K. J. 1980 23 1275 1282 Han H K Amidon G. L. 2000 2 1 11 Denny W. A. 2001 36 577 595 Wermuth C. G. in Wermuth C. G. ed. Academic Press San Diego 1996 697 715 Balant L. P. Doelker E. in Wolff M. E. ed. John Wiley Sons New York 1997 949 982.

The salts or prodrugs of the compounds of this invention may contain one or more asymmetric centers. Asymmetric carbon atoms may be present in the R or S configuration or R S configuration. Substituents on a ring may also be present in either cis or trans form. It is intended that all such configurations including enantiomers and diastereomers are included within the scope of the present invention. Preferred isomers are those with the configuration which produces the more desirable biological activity. Separated pure or partially purified isomers or racemic mixtures of the compounds of this invention are also included within the scope of the present invention. The purification of said isomers and the separation of said isomeric mixtures can be accomplished by standard techniques known in the art.

A particular process to prepare the compound 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide is described in Example 1. The preparation of salt forms are described in Examples 2 to 7.

The compound of Example 1 4 4 3 tert Butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide may be prepared by alternative methods. Specific preparations of diaryl ureas including pyrazolyl ureas are already described in the patent literature and can be adapted to the compounds of the present invention. For example Miller S. et al Inhibition of p38 Kinase using Symmetrical and Unsymmetrical Diphenyl Ureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 32463 Miller S et al. Inhibition of raf Kinase using Symmetrical and Unsymmetrical Substituted Diphenyl Ureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 32436 Dumas J. et al. Inhibition of p38 Kinase Activity using Substituted Heterocyclic Ureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 32111 Dumas J. et al. Method for the Treatment of Neoplasm by Inhibition of raf Kinase using N Heteroaryl N hetero arylureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 32106 Dumas J. et al. Inhibition of p38 Kinase Activity using Aryl and Heteroaryl Substituted Heterocyclic Ureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 32110 Dumas J. et al. Inhibition of raf Kinase using Aryl and Heteroaryl Substituted Heterocyclic Ureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 99 32455 Riedl B. et al. O Carboxy Aryl Substituted Diphenyl Ureas as raf Kinase Inhibitors PCT Int. Appl. WO 2000 42012 Riedl B. et al. O Carboxy Aryl Substituted Diphenyl Ureas as p38 Kinase Inhibitors PCT Int. Appl. WO 2000 41698 Dumas J. et al. Heteroaryl ureas containing nitrogen hetero atoms as p38 kinase inhibitors U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. US 20020065296 Dumas J. et al. Preparation of N aryl N acylphenoxy phenyl ureas as raf kinase inhibitors PCT Int. Appl. WO 2002 62763 Dumas J. et al. Inhibition of raf kinase using quinolyl isoquinolyl or pyridyl ureas PCT Int. Appl. WO 2002 85857 Dumas J. et al. Preparation of quinolyl isoquinolyl or pyridyl ureas as inhibitors of raf kinase for the treatment of tumors and or cancerous cell growth U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. US 20020165394 Lee W. et al. Substituted Pyrazolyl Urea Derivatives Useful in the Treatment of Cancer PCT Int. Appl. WO 2005 110994. All of the preceding patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

Synthetic transformations that may be employed in the synthesis of the compound of this invention and in the synthesis of intermediates involved in the synthesis of the compound of this invention are known by or accessible to one skilled in the art. Collections of synthetic transformations may be found in compilations such as 

In addition recurring reviews of synthetic methodology and related topics include John Wiley New York John Wiley New York John Wiley New York John Wiley New York John Wiley New York Academic Press San Diego Calif. and Houben Weyl Thieme Stuttgart Germany. Furthermore databases of synthetic transformations include which may be searched using either CAS OnLine or SciFinder Beilstein which may be searched using SpotFire and REACCS.

The present invention also relates to methods of screening patients to determine their susceptibility to compounds of the present invention. For example the present invention relates to methods of selecting subjects having a disease for treatment comprising one or more of the following steps in any effective order e.g. measuring the expression or activity of Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl in a sample obtained from a subject having a disease and administering a compound of this invention to subjects who are identified as having altered e.g. high or activating levels of expression or activity.

The term susceptibility is used broadly to indicate e.g. ability to respond toxicity or other adverse effects etc. For example the invention relates to methods of determining whether a condition can be modulated by a compound disclosed herein comprising measuring the expression or activity of Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl in cells having said condition. The results can be used to determine or predict whether a subject will respond to a compound of the present invention. For example where the condition is a tumor the methods can be used to predict whether the tumor is susceptible to compounds of the present invention. By the term susceptible it is meant that tumor can be treated with it e.g. causing tumor regression or cell death inhibiting cell proliferation inhibiting tumor growth inhibiting tumor metastasis etc.

Whether a condition such as a tumor is susceptible to a compound of the present invention can be determined routinely. For instance cells or tissues e.g. tumor cells a biopsy sample etc. that exhibit the condition can be assayed for the presence and or absence of Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl activity and levels thereof. When aberrant e.g. high levels of expression and or activity are identified this can indicate that the subject will respond to and benefit from a compound of the present invention. Levels of gene expression e.g. mRNA levels gene amplification or gene product activity e.g. tyrosine kinase activity can be utilized to characterize the state of the cell with respect to the corresponding gene and signaling pathway. For example the target genes of the present invention possess tyrosine kinase activity and therefore kinase activity can be used to assess the cell or tissue state. In the example below activity was measured by looking at the levels of substrate phosphorylated by it. This can be done quantitatively e.g. using isotopes spectroscopy etc. or semi quantitatively as in the example where the levels were assessed visually and assigned a level of intensity from 1 to 4. For example a cell or tissue which has a high level of phosphorylated substrate and a high number of cells exhibiting the heightened activity can be considered to have a high level of kinase activity and therefore be a candidate for therapy with a compound of the present invention. More than one activity can be assessed and the results from several targets can be utilized in deciding whether a subject s condition e.g. a tumor will be responsive to a compound of the present invention.

Levels of target activity can be relative to a control or other standard. For example high levels can therefore be where cells express a statistically higher amount of measured activity or phosphorylated substrate than the standard or control used as a comparison. High levels can also be where 25 or more cells express the target activity.

The method can further comprise a step of comparing the expression in a sample with a normal control or expression in a sample obtained from normal or unaffected tissue. Comparing can be done manually against a standard in an electronic form e.g. against a database etc. The normal control can be a standard sample that is provided with the assay it can be obtained from adjacent but unaffected tissue from the same patient or it can be pre determined values etc. Gene expression protein expression e.g. abundance in a cell protein activity e.g. kinase activity etc. can be determined.

For instance a biopsy from a cancer patient can be assayed for the presence quantity and or activity of Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl. Aberrant e.g. increased expression or activity of one or more of these can indicate that the cancer can be targeted for treatment by a compound of the present invention. Increased kinase activity indicates that the corresponding kinase is either activated or over expressed suggesting the use of compounds of the present invention to treat it. In addition to biopsy samples expression can also be measured in other body fluids such as serum blood cerebral spinal fluid urine etc. such as in peripheral blood lymphocytes PBLs .

In addition patients having cancer can be selected and monitored on the basis of whether the tissue is experiencing neovacularization and how much. This can be assessed as discussed above e.g. using immunohistochemistry for vessel markers e.g. CD31 circulating levels of a VGFR ligand etc.

Patient selection and monitoring can also be made on the basis of the appearance in a body fluid such as blood above normal levels of the shedded ectodomains derived from the various receptors including the extracellular portions of Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl. Detection methods can be carried out routinely e.g. using antibodies which specifically bind to the extracellular domain. Measuring expression includes determining or detecting the amount of the polypeptide present in a cell or shed by it as well as measuring the underlying mRNA where the quantity of mRNA present is considered to reflect the quantity of polypeptide manufactured by the cell. Furthermore the genes for Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl can be analyzed to determine whether there is a gene defect responsible for aberrant expression or polypeptide activity. Sequences for these genes are publicly available.

This invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions containing one or more compounds of the present invention. These compositions can be utilized to achieve the desired pharmacological effect by administration to a patient in need thereof. A patient for the purpose of this invention is a mammal including a human in need of treatment for the particular condition or disease. Therefore the present invention includes pharmaceutical compositions that are comprised of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound of the present invention. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is preferably a carrier that is relatively non toxic and innocuous to a patient at concentrations consistent with effective activity of the active ingredient so that any side effects ascribable to the carrier do not vitiate the beneficial effects of the active ingredient. A pharmaceutically effective amount of compound is preferably that amount which produces a result or exerts an influence on the particular condition being treated. The compounds of the present invention can be administered with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art using any effective conventional dosage unit forms including immediate slow and timed release preparations orally parenterally topically nasally ophthalmically optically sublingually rectally vaginally and the like.

For oral administration the compounds can be formulated into solid or liquid preparations such as capsules pills tablets troches lozenges melts powders solutions suspensions or emulsions and may be prepared according to methods known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions. The solid unit dosage forms can be a capsule that can be of the ordinary hard or soft shelled gelatin type containing for example surfactants lubricants and inert fillers such as lactose sucrose calcium phosphate and corn starch.

In another embodiment the compounds of this invention may be tableted with conventional tablet bases such as lactose sucrose and cornstarch in combination with binders such as acacia corn starch or gelatin disintegrating agents intended to assist the break up and dissolution of the tablet following administration such as potato starch alginic acid corn starch and guar gum gum tragacanth acacia lubricants intended to improve the flow of tablet granulation and to prevent the adhesion of tablet material to the surfaces of the tablet dies and punches for example talc stearic acid or magnesium calcium or zinc stearate dyes coloring agents and flavoring agents such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry flavoring intended to enhance the aesthetic qualities of the tablets and make them more acceptable to the patient. Suitable excipients for use in oral liquid dosage forms include dicalcium phosphate and diluents such as water and alcohols for example ethanol benzyl alcohol and polyethylene alcohols either with or without the addition of a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant suspending agent or emulsifying agent. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance tablets pills or capsules may be coated with shellac sugar or both.

Dispersible powders and granules are suitable for the preparation of an aqueous suspension. They provide the active ingredient in admixture with a dispersing or wetting agent a suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional excipients for example those sweetening flavoring and coloring agents described above may also be present.

The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may also be in the form of oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil such as liquid paraffin or a mixture of vegetable oils. Suitable emulsifying agents may be 1 naturally occurring gums such as gum acacia and gum tragacanth 2 naturally occurring phosphatides such as soy bean and lecithin 3 esters or partial esters derived form fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example sorbitan monooleate 4 condensation products of said partial esters with ethylene oxide for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The emulsions may also contain sweetening Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil such as for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in a mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent such as for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. The suspensions may also contain one or more preservatives for example ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents such as for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations may also contain a demulcent and preservative such as methyl and propyl parabens and flavoring and coloring agents.

The compounds of this invention may also be administered parenterally that is subcutaneously intravenously intraocularly intrasynovially intramuscularly or interperitoneally as injectable dosages of the compound in preferably a physiologically acceptable diluent with a pharmaceutical carrier which can be a sterile liquid or mixture of liquids such as water saline aqueous dextrose and related sugar solutions an alcohol such as ethanol isopropanol or hexadecyl alcohol glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol glycerol ketals such as 2 2 dimethyl 1 1 dioxolane 4 methanol ethers such as poly ethylene glycol 400 an oil a fatty acid a fatty acid ester or a fatty acid glyceride or an acetylated fatty acid glyceride with or without the addition of a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant such as a soap or a detergent suspending agent such as pectin carbomers methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose or carboxymethylcellulose or emulsifying agent and other pharmaceutical adjuvants.

Illustrative of oils which can be used in the parenteral formulations of this invention are those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin for example peanut oil soybean oil sesame oil cottonseed oil corn oil olive oil petrolatum and mineral oil. Suitable fatty acids include oleic acid stearic acid isostearic acid and myristic acid. Suitable fatty acid esters are for example ethyl oleate and isopropyl myristate. Suitable soaps include fatty acid alkali metal ammonium and triethanolamine salts and suitable detergents include cationic detergents for example dimethyl dialkyl ammonium halides alkyl pyridinium halides and alkylamine acetates anionic detergents for example alkyl aryl and olefin sulfonates alkyl olefin ether and monoglyceride sulfates and sulfosuccinates non ionic detergents for example fatty amine oxides fatty acid alkanolamides and poly oxyethylene oxypropylene s or ethylene oxide or propylene oxide copolymers and amphoteric detergents for example alkyl beta aminopropionates and 2 alkylimidazoline quarternary ammonium salts as well as mixtures.

The parenteral compositions of this invention will typically contain from about 0.5 to about 25 by weight of the active ingredient in solution. Preservatives and buffers may also be used advantageously. In order to minimize or eliminate irritation at the site of injection such compositions may contain a non ionic surfactant having a hydrophile lipophile balance HLB preferably of from about 12 to about 17. The quantity of surfactant in such formulation preferably ranges from about 5 to about 15 by weight. The surfactant can be a single component having the above HLB or can be a mixture of two or more components having the desired HLB.

Illustrative of surfactants used in parenteral formulations are the class of polyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters for example sorbitan monooleate and the high molecular weight adducts of ethylene oxide with a hydrophobic base formed by the condensation of propylene oxide with propylene glycol.

The pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of sterile injectable aqueous suspensions. Such suspensions may be formulated according to known methods using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents such as for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents which may be a naturally occurring phosphatide such as lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid for example polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol for example heptadeca ethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived form a fatty acid and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate or a condensation product of an ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate.

The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent. Diluents and solvents that may be employed are for example water Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride solutions and isotonic glucose solutions. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as solvents or suspending media. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid can be used in the preparation of injectables.

A composition of the invention may also be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal administration of a compound of the present invention. These compositions can be prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention with a suitable non irritation excipient which is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such materials are for example cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol.

Another formulation employed in the methods of the present invention employs transdermal delivery devices patches . Such transdermal patches may be used to provide continuous or discontinuous infusion of the compounds of the present invention in controlled amounts. The construction and use of transdermal patches for the delivery of pharmaceutical agents is well known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 023 252 issued Jun. 11 1991 incorporated herein by reference . Such patches may be constructed for continuous pulsatile or on demand delivery of pharmaceutical agents.

Controlled release formulations for parenteral administration include liposomal polymeric microsphere and polymeric gel formulations that are known in the art.

It may be desirable or necessary to introduce the pharmaceutical composition to the patient via a mechanical delivery device. The construction and use of mechanical delivery devices for the delivery of pharmaceutical agents is well known in the art. Direct techniques for for example administering a drug directly to the brain usually involve placement of a drug delivery catheter into the patient s ventricular system to bypass the blood brain barrier. One such implantable delivery system used for the transport of agents to specific anatomical regions of the body is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 011 472 issued Apr. 30 1991.

The compositions of the invention can also contain other conventional pharmaceutically acceptable compounding ingredients generally referred to as carriers or diluents as necessary or desired. Conventional procedures for preparing such compositions in appropriate dosage forms can be utilized. Such ingredients and procedures include those described in the following references each of which is incorporated herein by reference Powell M. F. et al Compendium of Excipients for Parenteral Formulations 1998 52 5 238 311 Strickley R. G Parenteral Formulations of Small Molecule Therapeutics Marketed in the United States 1999 Part 1 1999 53 6 324 349 and Nema S. et al Excipients and Their Use in Injectable Products 1997 51 4 166 171.

Commonly used pharmaceutical ingredients that can be used as appropriate to formulate the composition for its intended route of administration include 

Sterile IV Solution A 5 mg mL solution of the desired compound of this invention can be made using sterile injectable water and the pH is adjusted if necessary. The solution is diluted for administration to 1 2 mg mL with sterile 5 dextrose and is administered as an IV infusion over about 60 minutes.

Lyophilized powder for IV administration A sterile preparation can be prepared with i 100 1000 mg of the desired compound of this invention as a lyophilized powder ii 32 327 mg mL sodium citrate and iii 300 3000 mg Dextran 40. The formulation is reconstituted with sterile injectable saline or dextrose 5 to a concentration of 10 to 20 mg mL which is further diluted with saline or dextrose 5 to 0.2 0.4 mg mL and is administered either IV bolus or by IV infusion over 15 60 minutes.

Intramuscular suspension The following solution or suspension can be prepared for intramuscular injection 

Hard Shell Capsules A large number of unit capsules are prepared by filling standard two piece hard galantine capsules each with 100 mg of powdered active ingredient 150 mg of lactose 50 mg of cellulose and 6 mg of magnesium stearate.

Soft Gelatin Capsules A mixture of active ingredient in a digestible oil such as soybean oil cottonseed oil or olive oil is prepared and injected by means of a positive displacement pump into molten gelatin to form soft gelatin capsules containing 100 mg of the active ingredient. The capsules are washed and dried. The active ingredient can be dissolved in a mixture of polyethylene glycol glycerin and sorbitol to prepare a water miscible medicine mix.

Tablets A large number of tablets are prepared by conventional procedures so that the dosage unit is 100 mg of active ingredient 0.2 mg. of colloidal silicon dioxide 5 mg of magnesium stearate 275 mg of microcrystalline cellulose 11 mg. of starch and 98.8 mg of lactose. Appropriate aqueous and non aqueous coatings may be applied to increase palatability improve elegance and stability or delay absorption.

Immediate Release Tablets Capsules These are solid oral dosage forms made by conventional and novel processes. These units are taken orally without water for immediate dissolution and delivery of the medication. The active ingredient is mixed in a liquid containing ingredient such as sugar gelatin pectin and sweeteners. These liquids are solidified into solid tablets or caplets by freeze drying and solid state extraction techniques. The drug compounds may be compressed with viscoelastic and thermoelastic sugars and polymers or effervescent components to produce porous matrices intended for immediate release without the need of water.

The present invention relates to a method for using the compounds of the present invention and compositions thereof to treat mammalian hyper proliferative disorders. The compounds and compositions of this invention can be utilized to inhibit block reduce decrease etc. cell proliferation and or cell division and or produce apoptosis. This method comprises administering to a mammal in need thereof including a human an amount of a compound of this invention which is effective to treat the disorder. Hyper proliferative disorders include but are not limited e.g. psoriasis keloids and other hyperplasias affecting the skin benign prostate hyperplasia BPH solid tumors such as cancers of the breast respiratory tract brain reproductive organs digestive tract urinary tract eye liver skin head and neck thyroid parathyroid and their distant metastases. Those disorders also include lymphomas sarcomas and leukemias.

Examples of breast cancer include but are not limited to invasive ductal carcinoma invasive lobular carcinoma ductal carcinoma in situ and lobular carcinoma in situ.

Examples of cancers of the respiratory tract include but are not limited to small cell and non small cell lung carcinoma as well as bronchial adenoma and pleuropulmonary blastoma.

Examples of brain cancers include but are not limited to brain stem and hypophtalmic glioma cerebellar and cerebral astrocytoma medulloblastoma ependymoma as well as neuroectodermal and pineal tumor.

Tumors of the male reproductive organs include but are not limited to prostate and testicular cancer. Tumors of the female reproductive organs include but are not limited to endometrial cervical ovarian vaginal and vulvar cancer as well as sarcoma of the uterus.

Tumors of the digestive tract include but are not limited to anal colon colorectal esophageal gallbladder gastric pancreatic rectal small intestine and salivary gland cancers.

Tumors of the urinary tract include but are not limited to bladder penile kidney renal pelvis ureter urethral and human papillary renal cancers.

Examples of liver cancers include but are not limited to hepatocellular carcinoma liver cell carcinomas with or without fibrolamellar variant cholangiocarcinoma intrahepatic bile duct carcinoma and mixed hepatocellular cholangiocarcinoma.

Skin cancers include but are not limited to squamous cell carcinoma Kaposi s sarcoma malignant melanoma Merkel cell skin cancer and non melanoma skin cancer.

Head and neck cancers include but are not limited to laryngeal hypopharyngeal nasopharyngeal oropharyngeal cancer lip and oral cavity cancer and squamous cell. Lymphomas include but are not limited to AIDS related lymphoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma cutaneous T cell lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma Hodgkin s disease and lymphoma of the central nervous system.

Sarcomas include but are not limited to sarcoma of the soft tissue osteosarcoma malignant fibrous histiocytoma lymphosarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma.

Leukemias include but are not limited to acute myeloid leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia and hairy cell leukemia.

These disorders have been well characterized in humans but also exist with a similar etiology in other mammals and can be treated by administering pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention.

The term treating or treatment as stated throughout this discussed is used conventionally e.g. the management or care of a subject for the purpose of combating alleviating reducing relieving improving the condition of etc. of a disease or disorder such as a carcinoma.

The present invention also provides methods for the treatment of disorders associated with aberrant kinase activity such as tyrosine kinase activity including but not limited to KDR VEGFR2 Trk A c Met and Bcr Abl comprising administering an effective amount of a compound of the present invention. Disorders include cancers such as those mentioned herein disorders associated with angiogenesis see above cell proliferation disorders etc. For example c Met over expression and mutations have been found in many tumor types including e.g. solid tumors hereditary papillary renal carcinoma heptatocellular carcinoma e.g. childhood type and gastric tumors. Trk A expression and mutations have been reported in cancers including e.g. pancreatic breast ovarian prostate carcinoma papillary thyroid carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma including familial forms and acute myeloid leukemia. Bcr Abl and mutations of this kinase are the cause of chronic myelogenous leukemia CML .

Effective amounts of compounds of the present invention can be used to treat such disorders including those diseases e.g. cancer mentioned in the Background section above. Nonetheless such cancers and other diseases can be treated with compounds of the present invention regardless of the mechanism of action and or the relationship between the kinase and the disorder.

The phrase aberrant kinase activity or aberrant tyrosine kinase activity includes any abnormal expression or activity of the gene encoding the kinase or of the polypeptide it encodes. Examples of such aberrant activity include but are not limited to over expression of the gene or polypeptide gene amplification mutations which produce constitutively active or hyperactive kinase activity gene mutations deletions substitutions additions etc.

The present invention also provides for methods of inhibiting a kinase activity especially of VEGFR2 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl comprising administering an effective amount of a compound of the present invention including salts polymorphs metabolites hyrates solvates prodrugs e.g. esters thereof and diastereoisomeric forms thereof . Kinase activity can be inhibited in cells e.g. in vitro or in the cells of a mammalian subject especially a human patient in need of treatment.

Compounds of the present invention can be used for any of the indications described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 946 471 6 921 763 6 855 728 6 723 694 6 660 744 6 468 529 6 350 754 6 297 238 6 214 344 6 207 152 6 099 841 6 057 105 6 051 593 5 734 039 5 707 624 5 686 292 and 5 646 036 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention also provides methods of treating disorders and diseases associated with excessive and or abnormal angiogenesis. Inappropriate and ectopic expression of angiogenesis can be deleterious to an organism. A number of pathological conditions are associated with the growth of extraneous blood vessels. These include e.g. diabetic retinopathy ischemic retinal vein occlusion and retinopathy of prematurity Aiello et al. 1994 331 1480 Peer et al. 1995 72 638 age related macular degeneration AMD see Lopez et al. Invest. Opththalmol. Vis. Sci. 1996 37 855 neovascular glaucoma psoriasis retrolental fibroplasias angiofibroma inflammation rheumatoid arthritis RA restenosis in stent restenosis vascular graft restenosis etc. In addition the increased blood supply associated with cancerous and neoplastic tissue encourages growth leading to rapid tumor enlargement and metastasis. Moreover the growth of new blood and lymph vessels in a tumor provides an escape route for renegade cells encouraging metastasis and the consequence spread of the cancer. Thus compounds of the present invention can be utilized to treat and or prevent any of the aforementioned angiogenesis disorders e.g. by inhibiting and or reducing blood vessel formation by inhibiting blocking reducing decreasing etc. endothelial cell proliferation or other types involved in angiogenesis as well as causing cell death or apoptosis of such cell types.

Compounds and compositions of the present invention can be tested routinely for angiogenic activity e.g. by contacting a blood vessel forming cell population with a compound of the present invention and determining the effect of the compound on blood vessel formation. Any cell population capable of forming blood vessels can be utilized. Useful models include e.g. in vivo Matrigel type assays tumor neovascularization assays CAM assays BCE assays cell migration assays HUVEC growth inhibition assays animal models e.g. tumor growth in athymic mice chronically ischemic lower limb in a rabbit model cancer models etc. in vivo systems such as a heart or limb present in a patient e.g. angiogenic therapy to treat myocardial infarction hosts in need of treatment e.g. hosts suffering from angiogenesis related diseases such as cancer ischemic syndromes arterial obstructive disease to promote collateral circulation to promote vessel growth into bioengineered tissues etc.

Cells can include e.g. endothelial epithelial muscle embryonic and adult stem cells ectodermal mesenchymal endodermal neoplastic blood bovine CPAE CCL 209 bovine FBHE CRL 1395 human HUV EC C CRL 1730 mouse SVEC4 10EHR1 CRL 2161 mouse MS1 CRL 2279 mouse MS1 VEGF CRL 2460 stem cells etc. The phrase capable of forming blood vessels does not indicate a particular cell type but simply that the cells in the population are able under appropriate conditions to form blood vessels. In some circumstances the population may be heterogeneous comprising more than one cell type only some which actually differentiate into blood vessels but others which are necessary to initiate maintain etc. the process of vessel formation.

A useful model to determine the effect of compounds or compositions on angiogenesis is based on the observation that when a reconstituted basement membrane matrix such as Matrigel supplemented with growth factor e.g. FGF 1 is injected subcutaneously into a host animal endothelial cells are recruited into the matrix forming new blood vessels over a period of several days. See e.g. Passaniti et al. Lab. Invest. 67 519 528 1992. To stabilize the growth factor and or slow its release from the matrix the growth factor can be bound to heparin or another stabilizing agent. The matrix can also be periodically re infused with growth factor to enhance and extend the angiogenic process. More specifically a Matrigel plug implant comprising FGF 1 can be implanted subcutaneously into a host mouse. The initial bolus of FGF attracts endothelial cells into the implant but does not result in new blood vessel formation. After about 10 15 days the implant can be re infused with FGF 1. The FGF 1 stimulates the endothelial cells already present in the implant initiating the process of angiogenesis.

Other useful systems for studying angiogenesis include e.g. neovascularization of tumor explants e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 192 744 6 024 688 chicken chorioallantoic membrane CAM assay e.g. Taylor and Folkman Nature 297 307 312 1982 Eliceiri et al. J. Cell Biol. 140 1255 1263 1998 bovine capillary endothelial BCE cell assay e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 024 688 Polyerini P. J. et al. Methods Enzymol. 198 440 450 1991 migration assays HUVEC human umbilical cord vascular endothelial cell growth inhibition assay e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 060 449 .

A cell population can be contacted with a compound or composition of this invention in any manner and under any conditions suitable for it to exert an effect on the cells. The means by which compound is delivered to the cells may depend upon the type of test agent e.g. its chemical nature and the nature of the cell population. Generally a compound must have access to the cell population so it must be delivered in a form or pro form that the population can experience physiologically i.e. to put in contact with the cells. For instance if the intent is for the agent to enter the cell if necessary it can be associated with any means that facilitate or enhance cell penetrance e.g. associated with antibodies or other reagents specific for cell surface antigens liposomes lipids chelating agents targeting moieties etc. Cells can also be treated manipulated etc. to enhance delivery e.g. by electroporation pressure variation etc.

Based upon standard laboratory techniques known to evaluate compounds useful for the treatment of hyper proliferative disorders and angiogenic disorders by standard toxicity tests and by standard pharmacological assays for the determination of treatment of the conditions identified above in mammals and by comparison of these results with the results of known medicaments that are used to treat these conditions the effective dosage of the compounds of this invention can readily be determined for treatment of each desired indication. The amount of a compound of this invention to be administered in the treatment of one of these conditions can vary widely according to such considerations as the particular compound and dosage unit employed the mode of administration the period of treatment the age and sex of the patient treated and the nature and extent of the condition treated.

The total amount of a compound of the present invention to be administered will generally range from about 0.001 mg kg to about 200 mg kg body weight per day and preferably from about 0.01 mg kg to about 20 mg kg body weight per day. Clinically useful dosing schedules will range from one to three times a day dosing to once every four weeks dosing. In addition drug holidays in which a patient is not dosed with a compound of the present invention for a certain period of time may be beneficial to the overall balance between pharmacological effect and tolerability. A unit dosage may contain from about 0.5 mg to about 1500 mg of active ingredient and can be administered one or more times per day or less than once a day. The average daily dosage for administration by injection including intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and parenteral injections and use of infusion techniques will preferably be from 0.01 to 200 mg kg of total body weight. The average daily rectal dosage regimen will preferably be from 0.01 to 200 mg kg of total body weight. The average daily vaginal dosage regimen will preferably be from 0.01 to 200 mg kg of total body weight. The average daily topical dosage regimen will preferably be from 0.1 to 200 mg administered between one to four times daily. The transdermal concentration will preferably be that required to maintain a daily dose of from 0.01 to 200 mg kg. The average daily inhalation dosage regimen will preferably be from 0.01 to 100 mg kg of total body weight.

Of course the specific initial and continuing dosage regimen for each patient will vary according to the nature and severity of the condition as determined by the attending diagnostician the activity of the specific compound employed the age and general condition of the patient time of administration route of administration rate of excretion of the drug drug combinations and the like. The desired mode of treatment and number of doses of a compound of the present invention can be ascertained by those skilled in the art using conventional treatment tests.

The compounds of this invention can be administered as the sole pharmaceutical agent or in combination with one or more other pharmaceutical agents where the combination causes no unacceptable adverse effects. For example the compounds of this invention can be combined with known anti hyper proliferative or other indication agents and the like as well as with admixtures and combinations thereof.

 The additional pharmaceutical agent can be aldesleukin alendronic acid alfaferone alitretinoin allopurinol aloprim aloxi altretamine aminoglutethimide amifostine amrubicin amsacrine anastrozole anzmet aranesp arglabin arsenic trioxide aromasin 5 azacytidine azathioprine BCG or tice BCG bestatin betamethasone acetate betamethasone sodium phosphate bexarotene bleomycin sulfate broxuridine bortezomib busulfan calcitonin campath capecitabine carboplatin casodex cefesone celmoleukin cerubidine chlorambucil cisplatin cladribine cladribine clodronic acid cyclophosphamide cytarabine dacarbazine dactinomycin DAUNOXOME daunorubicin decadron decadron phosphate delestrogen denileukin diftitox depo medrol deslorelin dexrazoxane diethylstilbestrol diflucan docetaxel doxifluridine doxorubicin dronabinol DW 166HC eligard elitek ellence emend epirubicin epoetin alfa EPOGEN epotin alpha eptaplatin ergamisol estrace estradiol estramustine phosphate sodium ethinyl estradiol ethyol etidronic acid etopophos etoposide fadrozole FARESTON Toremitene filgrastim finasteride fligrastim floxuridine fluconazole fludarabine 5 fluorodeoxyuridine monophosphate 5 fluorouracil 5 FU fluoxymesterone flutamide formestane fosteabine fotemustine fulvestrant gammagard gemcitabine gemtuzumab GLEEVEC imatinib mesylate GLIADEL wafer goserelin granisetron HC1 histrelin hycamtin hydrocortone eyrthro hydroxynonyladenine hydroxyurea ibritumomab tiuxetan idarubicin ifosfamide interferon alpha interferon alpha 2 interferon alfa 2A interferon alfa 2B interferon alfa n1 interferon alfa n3 interferon beta interferon gamma 1a interleukin 2 INTRON A interferon alfa 2b recombinant iressa irinotecan kytril lentinan sulphate letrozole leucovorin leuprolide leuprolide acetate levamisole levofolinic acid calcium salt levothroid LEVOXYL levothyroxine sodium tablets lomustine lonidamine marinol mechlorethamine mecobalamin medroxyprogesterone acetate megestrol acetate melphalan MENEST esterified estrogens 6 mercaptopurine Mesna methotrexate metvix miltefosine minocycline mitomycin C mitotane mitoxantrone MODRENAL trilostane MYOCET non pegylated liposomal doxorubicin nedaplatin neulasta neumega neupogen nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate NSC 631570 OCT 43 octreotide ondansetron HC1 orapred oxaliplatin paclitaxel pediapred pegaspargase PEAGASYS peginterferon alfa 2a pentostatin picibanil pilocarpine HC1 pirarubicin plicamycin porfimer sodium prednimustine prednisolone prednisone PREMARIN conjugated estrogen tablets procarbazine procrit raltitrexed rebif rhenium 186 etidronate rituximab roferon A romurtide salagen sandostatin sargramostim semustine sizofiran sobuzoxane solu medrol sparfosic acid stem cell therapy streptozocin strontium 89 chloride synthroid tamoxifen tamsulosin tasonermin tastolactone TAXOTERE docetaxel teceleukin temozolomide teniposide testosterone propionate TESTRED Methyltestosterone thioguanine thiotepa thyrotropin tiludronic acid topotecan toremifene tositumomab trastuzumab treosulfan tretinoin trexall trimethylmelamine trimetrexate triptorelin acetate triptorelin pamoate UFT uridine valrubicin vesnarinone vinblastine vincristine vindesine vinorelbine virulizin zinecard zinostatin stimalamer ZOFRAN ondansetron ABI 007 acolbifene actimmune affinitak aminopterin arzoxifene asoprisnil atamestane atrasentan BAY 43 9006 sorafenib avastin CCI 779 CDC 501 CELEBREX anti inflamatory cetuximab crisnatol cyproterone acetate decitabine DN 101 doxorubicin MTC dSLIM dutasteride edotecarin eflornithine exatecan fenretinide histamine dihydrochloride histrelin hydrogel implant holmium 166 DOTMP ibandronic acid interferon gamma intron PEG ixabepilone keyhole limpet hemocyanin L 651582 lanreotide lasofoxifene libra lonafarnib miproxifene minodronate MS 209 liposomal MTP PE MX 6 nafarelin nemorubicin neovastat nolatrexed oblimersen onco TCS osidem paclitaxel polyglutamate pamidronate disodium PN 401 QS 21 quazepam R 1549 raloxifene ranpirnase 13 cis retinoic acid satraplatin seocalcitol T 138067 TARCEVA erlotinib taxoprexin thymosin alpha 1 tiazofurine tipifarnib tirapazamine TLK 286 toremifene TransMID 107R valspodar vapreotide vatalanib verteporfin vinflunine Z 100 zoledronic acid or combinations thereof.

Optional anti hyper proliferative agents which can be added to the composition include but are not limited to compounds listed on the cancer chemotherapy drug regimens in the 11Edition of the 1996 which is hereby incorporated by reference such as asparaginase bleomycin carboplatin carmustine chlorambucil cisplatin colaspase cyclophosphamide cytarabine dacarbazine dactinomycin daunorubicin doxorubicin adriamycine epirubicin etoposide 5 fluorouracil hexamethylmelamine hydroxyurea ifosfamide irinotecan leucovorin lomustine mechlorethamine 6 mercaptopurine mesna methotrexate mitomycin C mitoxantrone prednisolone prednisone procarbazine raloxifen streptozocin tamoxifen thioguanine topotecan vinblastine vincristine and vindesine.

Other anti hyper proliferative agents suitable for use with a compound or composition of the invention include but are not limited to those compounds acknowledged to be used in the treatment of neoplastic diseases in Ninth Edition editor Molinoff et al. publ. by McGraw Hill pages 1225 1287 1996 which is hereby incorporated by reference such as aminoglutethimide L asparaginase azathioprine 5 azacytidine cladribine busulfan diethylstilbestrol 2 2 difluorodeoxycytidine docetaxel erythrohydroxynonyl adenine ethinyl estradiol 5 fluorodeoxyuridine 5 fluorodeoxyuridine monophosphate fludarabine phosphate fluoxymesterone flutamide hydroxyprogesterone caproate idarubicin interferon medroxyprogesterone acetate megestrol acetate melphalan mitotane paclitaxel pentostatin N phosphonoacetyl L aspartate PALA plicamycin semustine teniposide testosterone propionate thiotepa trimethylmelamine uridine and vinorelbine.

Other anti hyper proliferative agents suitable for use with a compound or composition of the invention include but are not limited to other anti cancer agents such as epothilone and its derivatives irinotecan raloxifen and topotecan. Generally the use of cytotoxic and or cytostatic agents in combination with a compound or composition of the present invention will serve to 

Polypeptide detection can be carried out by any available method e.g. by Western blots ELISA dot blot immunoprecipitation RIA immunohistochemistry etc. For instance a tissue section can be prepared and labeled with a specific antibody indirect or direct and visualized with a microscope. Amount of a polypeptide can be quantitated without visualization e.g. by preparing a lysate of a sample of interest and then determining by ELISA or Western the amount of polypeptide per quantity of tissue. Antibodies and other specific binding agents can be used. There is no limitation on how detection is performed.

Assays can be utilized which permit quantification and or presence absence detection of a target nucleic acid e.g. genes mRNA etc. for Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl etc in a sample. Assays can be performed at the single cell level or in a sample comprising many cells where the assay is averaging expression over the entire collection of cells and tissue present in the sample. Any suitable assay format can be used including but not limited to e.g. Southern blot analysis Northern blot analysis polymerase chain reaction PCR e.g. Saiki et al. Science 241 53 1988 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 4 683 202 and 6 040 166 PCR Protocols A Guide to Methods and Applications Innis et al. eds. Academic Press New York 1990 reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction RT PCR anchored PCR rapid amplification of cDNA ends RACE e.g. Schaefer in Gene Cloning and Analysis Current Innovations Pages 99 115 1997 ligase chain reaction LCR EP 320 308 one sided PCR Ohara et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 86 5673 5677 1989 indexing methods e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 508 169 in situ hybridization differential display e.g. Liang et al. Nucl. Acid. Res. 21 3269 3275 1993 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 262 311 5 599 672 and 5 965 409 WO97 18454 Prashar and Weissman Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 93 659 663 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 010 850 and 5 712 126 Welsh et al. Nucleic Acid Res. 20 4965 4970 1992 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 487 985 and other RNA fingerprinting techniques nucleic acid sequence based amplification NASBA and other transcription based amplification systems e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 409 818 and 5 554 527 WO 88 10315 polynucleotide arrays e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 143 854 5 424 186 5 700 637 5 874 219 and 6 054 270 PCT WO 92 10092 PCT WO 90 15070 Qbeta Replicase PCT US87 00880 Strand Displacement Amplification SDA Repair Chain Reaction RCR nuclease protection assays subtraction based methods Rapid Scan etc. Additional useful methods include but are not limited to e.g. template based amplification methods competitive PCR e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 747 251 redox based assays e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 871 918 Taqman based assays e.g. Holland et al. Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. 88 7276 7280 1991 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 210 015 and 5 994 063 real time fluorescence based monitoring e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 928 907 molecular energy transfer labels e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 348 853 5 532 129 5 565 322 6 030 787 and 6 117 635 Tyagi and Kramer Nature Biotech. 14 303 309 1996 . Any method suitable for single cell analysis of gene or protein expression can be used including in situ hybridization immunocytochemistry MACS FACS flow cytometry etc. For single cell assays expression products can be measured using antibodies PCR or other types of nucleic acid amplification e.g. Brady et al. Methods Mol. Cell. Biol. 2 17 25 1990 Eberwine et al. 1992 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 89 3010 3014 1992 U.S. Pat. No. 5 723 290 . These and other methods can be carried out conventionally e.g. as described in the mentioned publications.

Activity of Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl can be assessed routinely e.g. as described in the examples below or using standard assays for kinase activity.

Measuring expression includes evaluating the all aspects of the transcriptional and translational machinery of the gene. For instance if a promoter defect causes or is suspected of causing the disorder then a sample can be evaluated i.e. assessed by looking e.g. sequencing or restriction mapping at the promoter sequence in the gene by detecting transcription products e.g. RNA by detecting translation product e.g. polypeptide . Any measure of whether the gene is functional can be used including polypeptide polynucleotide and functional assays for the gene s biological activity.

In making the assessment it can be useful to compare the results to a gene which is not associated with the disorder or to the same gene but in a unaffected tissue or region of the same tissue. The nature of the comparison can be determined routinely depending upon how the assessing is accomplished. If for example the mRNA levels of a sample are detected then the mRNA levels of a normal can serve as a comparison or a gene which is known not to be affected by the disorder. Methods of detecting mRNA are well known and discussed above e.g. but not limited to Northern blot analysis polymerase chain reaction PCR reverse transcriptase PCR RACE PCR etc. Similarly if polypeptide production is used to evaluate the gene then the polypeptide in a normal tissue sample can be used as a comparison or polypeptide from a different gene whose expression is known not to be affected by the disorder. These are only examples of how such a method could be carried out.

Patients can also be selected for treatment if they have a particular genotype which is known to be associated with a cancer especially genotypes associated with abnormal expression of Flk 1 Trk A and or Bcr Abl including mutations in these genes. The present invention relates to methods for selecting patients for treatment involving determining the expression levels of Flk 1 Trk A and or Bcr Abl in a sample obtained from a subject wherein abnormal levels of expression are associated with a disease and administering a compound or composition of this invention to subjects who are identified as having said abnormal expression. The present invention relates to methods for selecting patients for treatment involving determining the presence of a Flk 1 Trk A and or Bcr Abl gene mutation in a sample obtained from a subject wherein said mutation is associated with a disease and administering a compound or composition of this invention to subjects who are identified as having said mutation.

The presence of the mutation can be determined conventionally e.g. obtaining cells or a tissue sample from a subject extracting nucleic acid from it determining the gene sequence or structure of a target gene using e.g. mRNA cDNA genomic DNA etc comparing the sequence or structure of the target gene to the structure of the normal gene whereby a difference in sequence or structure indicates a mutation in the gene in the subject. Mutations can be determined using any effective method e.g. comparing restriction maps nucleotide sequences amino acid sequences RFLPs DNAse sites DNA methylation fingerprints e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 214 556 protein cleavage sites molecular weights electrophoretic mobilities charges ion mobility etc. between a standard gene and the subject s gene. Proteins can also be compared. To carry out such methods all or part of the gene or polypeptide can be compared. For example if nucleotide sequencing is utilized the entire gene can be sequenced including promoter introns and exons or only parts of it can be sequenced and compared e.g. exon 1 exon 2 etc.

The present invention also provides methods of assessing the efficacy of a compound or composition of the present invention in treating a disease comprising one or more of the following steps in any effective order e.g. measuring the expression or activity of VEGFR 2 Trk A c Met or Bcr Abl in a sample obtained from said subject who has been treated with a compound of the present invention and determining the effects of said compound on said expression or activity. The measuring step can be carried out as described already.

For instance biopsy samples can be removed from patients who have been treated with a compound or composition of the present invention and then assayed for the presence and or activity of the mentioned signaling molecules. As discussed above decreased levels of phospho ERK in the cancer tissue e.g. compared to a normal tissue or before treatment indicate that the compound is exerting in vivo efficacy and a therapeutic effect.

Determining the effects of a compound or composition of this invention on expression or activity includes performing a comparison step between a tissue sample and a control or other type of standard. Examples of standards that can be used include but are not limited to a tissue sample prior to treatment a tissue sample from an unaffected tissue or from an unaffected region of the affected tissue e.g. from a region of the tissue which is not transformed cancerous etc. etc. A standard can also be a value or range of values that is representative of normal levels of expression that have been established for that marker. The comparison can also be made between samples collected from at least two different timepoints during the treatment regimen with a compound of the present invention. For example samples can be collected from various times after initiation of the drug treatment and analysis of expression and or activity levels can be used to monitor the progress prognosis of the subject e.g. how the subject is responding to the drug regimen. Any timepoint can be used e.g. daily twice a week weekly every two weeks every month yearly a plurality of timepoints at least 2 3 4 8 12 etc. .

The phrase determining the effect indicates that the result produced by a compound or composition is analyzed and or identified. Any type of effect can be identified e.g. where the expression and or activity is reduced decreased down regulated inhibited blocked increased up regulated unchanged etc.

The method can be used to determine appropriate dosages and dosing regimens e.g. how much compound or composition of this invention to administer and at what frequency to administer it. By monitoring its effect on the signaling molecules in the tissue the clinician can determine the appropriate treatment protocol and whether it is achieving the desired effect e.g. on modulating or inhibiting the signal transduction pathway. For instance if a compound or composition of this invention is not effective in knocking down the amounts of a marker e.g. Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl the dosage can be increased in the patient or given more frequently. Similarly dosages and or frequency can be reduced when it is shown that a compound or composition of this invention is effective in knocking down the levels of Flk 1 Trk A c Met and or Bcr Abl or other marker for the disease state. Since a compound or composition of this invention can be administered in combination with others treatments e.g. radiation chemotherapy and other agents the monitoring of the subject can be used to assess the combined effects of the treatment regimen on the progress of the disease.

A comprehensive list of the abbreviations utilized by organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art appears in the first issue of each volume of the this list is typically presented in a table entitled . The abbreviations contained in said list and all abbreviations utilized by organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art are hereby incorporated by reference. For purposes of this invention the chemical elements are identified in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements CAS version Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 67th Ed. 1986 87.

More specifically when the following abbreviations are used throughout this disclosure they have the following meaning 

The percentage yields reported in the following examples are based on the starting component that was used in the lowest molar amount. Air and moisture sensitive liquids and solutions were transferred via syringe or cannula and introduced into reaction vessels through rubber septa. Commercial grade reagents and solvents were used without further purification. The term concentrated under reduced pressure or solvent was removed under reduced pressure usually refers to the use of a Buchi rotary evaporator at approximately 15 mm of Hg. In some cases a centrifugal multiple sample evaporator e.g. GeneVac Atlas was used for the removal of solvent under reduced pressure. All temperatures are reported uncorrected in degrees Celsius C. . Thin layer chromatography TLC was performed on pre coated glass backed silica gel 60 A F 254 250 m plates

Electron impact mass spectra EI MS were obtained with a Hewlett Packard 5989A mass spectrometer equipped with a Hewlett Packard 5890 Gas Chromatograph with a J W DB 5 column 0.25 M coating 30 m 0.25 mm . The ion source was maintained at 250 C. and spectra were scanned from 50 800 amu at 2 sec per scan.

LC MS High pressure liquid chromatography electrospray mass spectra HPLC ES MS were obtained using a Gilson HPLC system equipped with two Gilson 306 pumps a Gilson 215 Autosampler a Gilson diode array detector a YMC Pro C 18 column 2 23 mm 120 A and a Micromass LCZ single quadrupole mass spectrometer with z spray electrospray ionization. Spectra were scanned from 120 1000 amu over 2 seconds. ELSD Evaporative Light Scattering Detector data was also acquired as an analog channel. Gradient elution was used with Buffer A as 2 acetonitrile in water with 0.02 TFA and Buffer B as 2 water in acetonitrile with 0.02 TFA at 1.5 mL min. Samples were eluted as follows 90 A for 0.5 minutes ramped to 95 B over 3.5 minutes and held at 95 B for 0.5 minutes and then the column was brought back to initial conditions over 0.1 minutes. Total run time was 4.8 minutes.

NMR Routine one dimensional NMR spectroscopy was performed on 300 400 MHz Varian Mercury plus spectrometers. The samples were dissolved in deuterated solvents obtained from Cambridge Isotope Labs and transferred to 5 mm ID Wilmad NMR tubes. The spectra were acquired at 293 K. The chemical shifts were recorded on the ppm scale and were referenced to the appropriate solvent signals such as 2.05 ppm for acetone d 2.49 ppm for DMSO d 1.93 ppm for CDCN 3.30 ppm for CDOD 5.32 ppm for CDCland 7.26 ppm for CDClfor H spectra. Abbreviations br broad s singlet d doublet dd doublet of doublets ddd doublet of doublet of doublets t triplet q quartet m multiplet.

Preparative HPLC Preparative HPLC was carried out in reversed phase mode eluting with aqueous acetonitrile containing 0.5 TFA typically using a Gilson HPLC system equipped with two Gilson 322 pumps a Gilson 215 Autosampler a Gilson diode array detector and a YMC Pro C 18 column 20 150 mm 120 A . Gradient elution was used with Buffer A as water with 0.1 TFA and Buffer B as acetonitrile with 0.1 TFA. Sample was dissolved in MeOH or MeOH DMSO with concentration about 50 mg mL. Injection volume was about 2 3 mL injection. Sample was typically eluted as follows 10 90 B over 15 minutes with flow rate of 25 mL min hold 2 minutes back to 10 B. The desired fraction s were collected by UV monitoring at 254 or 220 nm and evaporated under reduced pressure by using a GeneVac centrifugal multiple sample evaporator.

By using the methods described herein the compounds of the invention may be prepared. The following specific examples are presented to illustrate the invention described herein but they should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way.

Sulfuric acid concentrated 15.7 mL 295.7 mmol was carefully added drop wise to cold EtOH 600 mL with stirring. To this 3 hydrazinobenzoic acid 45 g 295.7 mmol and 4 4 dimethyl 3 oxopentanenitrile 40.7 g 325.3 mmol were added and then the mixture was heated at 90 C. for 48 h. Most of the solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure and the residual mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate. The resulting mixture was washed with ice cold 2M NaOH followed by brine and dried NaSO . The solution was filtered through a bed of silica gel washing with more ethyl acetate. Evaporation of ethyl acetate and treatment of the residue with dichloromethane hexanes gave the product as an off white crystalline solid 61 g 71 . MS m z 288.2 M H calcd. mass 287. Retention time LC MS 2.99 min. H NMR DMSO d 8.16 m 1H 7.88 m 2H 7.60 t 1H 5.40 s 1H 5.32 s 2H 4.36 q 2H 1.34 t 3H 1.21 s 9H .

To a mixture of ethyl 3 5 amino 3 tert butyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl benzoate 60 g 208.8 mmol and KCO 86.6 g 626.4 mmol in THF 1400 mL was added phenyl chloroformate 98.1 g 626.4 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solid was removed by filtration and most of the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residual mixture was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with brine then water. The organic layer was then dried and concentrated. The crude product was purified by recrystallization from CHCl hexanes to give the desired product as a white powder 78.5 g 92 . MS m z 408.1 M H calcd. mass 407. Retention time LC MS 3.92 min. H NMR DMSO d 10.19 s broad 1H 8.11 m 1H 7.97 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.86 m 1H 7.71 t 1H 7.38 m 2H 7.24 m 1H 7.08 m 1H 6.40 s 1H 4.38 q 2H 1.32 t 3H 1.29 s 9H .

A solution of ethyl 3 3 tert butyl 5 phenoxycarbonyl amino 1H pyrazol 1 ylbenzoate 9.36 g 22.0 mmol 4 4 amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 5.0 g 19.1 mmol prepared as described in Dumas et al. PCT Int. Appl. WO 2004078748 2004 and triethyl amine 3.87 g 38.3 mmol in anhydrous THF 100 mL was stirred at room temperature overnight. The crude product was purified by column chromatography CHClplus 1 to 3 of 2M NHin MeOH followed by recrystallization from EtOAc hexanes to give the desired product as an off white crystalline solid 6.32 g 57 . MS m z 575.1 M H calcd. mass 574. Retention time LC MS 3.75 min. H NMR DMSO d 8.97 m 1H 8.89 m 1H 8.80 m 1H 8.52 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 8.16 t 1H 8.06 m 1H 7.99 m 1H 7.85 m 1H 7.71 t 1H 7.39 m 1H 7.33 m 1H 7.17 m 1H 7.06 m 1H 6.42 s 1H 4.36 q 2H 2.78 d J 5.2 Hz 3H 1.31 m 12H .

To a well stirred cooled solution of 4 4 3 5 tert butyl 2 3 ethoxycarbonyl phenyl 2H pyrazol 3 yl ureido 3 fluoro phenoxy pyridine 2 carboxylic acid methylamide 56 mg 0.1 mmol in ethanol 10 mL NaBH 50 mg was added in portions. After 14 h ice water 10 mL was carefully added to the reaction mixture. Then most of the ethanol was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residual mixture was treated with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 10 mL and extracted three times with dichloromethane 50 25 and 25 mL . The combined dichloromethane extract was dried sodium sulfate and the solvent was evaporated. The crude product was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel using 3 5 2M ammonia in methanol in dichloromethane as the eluent to yield the desired product as a white powder 31 mg 58 .

For a larger scale synthesis the following similar procedure was followed To a solution of ethyl 3 3 tert butyl 5 2 fluoro 4 2 methylcarbamoyl pyridin 4 yl oxy phenyl carbamoyl amino 1H pyrazol 1 yl benzoate 11.2 g 19.5 mmol in EtOH was added NaBHstepwise as a solid. The reaction was then stirred at room temperature overnight and then quenched by gradual addition of aqueous NHCl. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with aq. NHCl followed by brine. The organic layer was then dried and concentrated. The crude product was then purified by column chromatography on silica gel CHClplus 1 to 5 of 2M NHin MeOH followed by recrystallization from dichloromethane hexanes to give the desired product as a white crystalline solid 8.0 g 77 . Mp 160 C. after further recrystallization desired product was obtained with mp 196 C. MS m z 533.3 M H calcd. mass 532. Retention time LC MS 3.13 min. H NMR DMSO d 9.02 s broad 1H 8.87 s 1H 8.81 m 1H 8.52 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 8.21 t 1H 7.51 m 2H 7.39 m 3H 7.32 m 1H 7.17 m 1H 7.06 m 1H 6.40 s 1H 5.36 t 1H 4.59 d J 5.6 Hz 2H 2.78 d J 4.8 Hz 3H 1.27 s 9H . Elemental Analysis C 62.92 H 5.43 N 15.70 calcd. C 63.15 H 5.49 N 15.78 .

To a solution of 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 200 mg 0.376 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL was dropwise added 4 toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 143 mg 0.75 mmol . The precipitate formed was filtered and washed with dioxane followed by hexanes. The solid was the recrystallized from dioxane methanol to give the desired product salt as a crystalline white powder 115.8 mg 35 . Mp 184 C. MS m z 533.2 M H calcd. mass 532. Retention time LC MS 3.48 min. H NMR DMSO d 9.04 s broad 1H 8.88 s 1H 8.87 m 1H 8.54 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 8.22 t 1H 7.51 m 7H 7.38 m 2H 7.34 m 1H 7.21 m 1H 7.11 d J 7.6 Hz 4H 7.07 m 1H 6.40 s 1H 4.58 s 2H 2.79 d J 4.8 Hz 3H 2.28 s 6H 1.27 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 225 mg 0.42 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL was dropwise added 4 methanesulfonic acid 81 mg 0.84 mmol . The precipitate that formed was filtered and washed with dioxane followed by hexanes. The solid was then recrystallized from acetone methanol to give the desired product salt as a crystalline white powder 156.7 mg 51 . Mp 158 C. MS m z 533.1 M H calcd. mass 532. Retention time LC MS 3.21 min. H NMR DMSO d 9.04 s broad 1H 8.88 s 1H 8.87 m 1H 8.54 d J 6 Hz 1H 8.22 t 1H 7.51 m 3H 7.38 m 2H 7.33 m 1H 7.21 m 1H 7.06 m 1H 6.40 s 1H 4.58 s 2H 2.79 d J 5.2 Hz 3H 2.35 s 6H 1.27 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 220 mg 0.41 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL was dropwise added hydrochloric acid 30 mg 0.82 mmol . The precipitate that formed was filtered and washed with dioxane followed by hexanes. The solid was then recrystallized from dioxane methanol to give the desired product salt as a white powder 240 mg 95 . MS m z 533.3 M H calcd. mass 532. Retention time LC MS 3.13 min. H NMR DMSO d 9.10 s broad 1H 8.97 s 1H 8.87 m 1H 8.53 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 8.21 t 1H 7.50 m 3H 7.39 m 2H 7.33 m 1H 7.20 m 1H 7.06 m 1H 6.39 s 1H 4.58 s 2H 2.79 d J 4.8 Hz 3H 1.27 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 212 mg 0.40 mmol in acetone 5 mL was dropwise added benzenesulfonic acid 157 mg 1.0 mmol . The precipitate that formed was filtered and washed with acetone followed by hexanes to give the desired product salt as a crystalline white powder 271.4 mg 80 . MS m z 533.5 M H calcd. mass 532. Retention time LC MS 3.15 min. H NMR DMSO d 9.05 s broad 1H 8.88 m 2H 8.54 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 8.22 t 1H 7.59 m 4H 7.51 m 3H 7.38 m 2H 7.34 m 7H 7.22 m 1H 7.07 m 1H 6.41 s 1H 4.58 s 2H 2.79 d J 4.8 Hz 3H 1.27 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 400 mg 0.751 mmol in acetone 5 mL was dropwise added a solution of 48 HBr 1 mL in water. The precipitate that formed was filtered and washed with acetone followed by hexanes to give the desired product salt as a white powder 505 mg 96.8 . MS m z 533.4 M H calcd. mass 532. Retention time LC MS 3.36 min. H NMR DMSO d 9.03 s broad 1H 8.89 m 2H 8.53 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 8.21 m 1H 7.50 m 3H 7.37 m 2H 7.33 m 1H 7.20 m 1H 7.06 m 1H 6.40 s 1H 4.58 s 2H 2.78 m 3H 1.26 s 9H .

To a solution of 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 400 mg 0.751 mmol in acetone 5 mL was dropwise added a solution of sulfuric acid 500 mg 5.1 mmol in ethyl acetate 5 mL The precipitate that formed was filtered and washed with acetone followed by hexane to give the desired product salt as a crystalline white powder 460 mg 97 . MS m z 533.4 M H calcd. mass 532. Retention time LC MS 3.20 min. H NMR DMSO d 9.02 m 1H 8.88 m 2H 8.52 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 8.22 m 1H 7.50 m 2H 7.42 m 1H 7.37 m 2H 7.32 m 1H 7.19 m 1H 7.05 m 1H 6.39 s 1H 4.57 s 2H 2.78 m 3H 1.26 s 9H .

To a room temperature solution of example 1 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 1.00 g 1.88 mmol and potassium carbonate 1.30 g 9.39 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 40 mL was added N 9 fluoroenylmethyloxycarbonyl D Valine chloride Fmoc D Val Cl 1.34 g 3.76 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir overnight. The crude material was concentrated and purified via column chromatography CHCl 2M NHin MeOH 99 1 up to 97 3 to afford 1.20 g 75 of the desired product as a white powder. MS m z 854.4 M H Retention time LC MS 4.59 min.

A solution of example 8 3 3 tert butyl 5 2 fluoro 4 2 methylcarbamoyl pyridin 4 yl oxyphenyl carbamoyl amino 1H pyrazol 1 yl benzyl N 9H fluoren 9 ylmethoxy carbonyl valinate 1.10 g 1.29 mmol in piperidine 0.16 mL DMF 9.17 mL was allowed to stir at room temperature for 20 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and washed with water 3 . The combined organic layer was dried and concentrated. The crude material was purified via prep TLC CHCl 2M NHin MeOH 97 3 to afford 0.48 g 59 of the desired product as a white powder. MS m z 632.2 M H Retention time LC MS 2.73 min.

Step 1 To a 0 C. solution of Example 1 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxyl methyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methyl pyridine 2 carboxamide 0.200 g 0.38 mmol 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 0.05 g 0.38 mmol and Fmoc L Val Cl 0.13 g 0.38 mmol in chloroform 6 mL was added 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethlycarboxiimide hydrochloride 0.11 g 0.56 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for 72 h. The crude material was concentrated and purified via prep TLC CHCl 2M NHin MeOH 97 3 to afford 0.24 g 74 of 3 3 tert butyl 5 2 fluoro 4 2 methylcarbamoyl pyridin 4 yl oxy phenyl carbamoyl amino 1H pyrazol 1 yl benzyl N 9H fluoren 9 ylmethoxy carbonyl L valinate as a white powder. MS m z 854.3 M H Retention time LC MS 4.08 min.

Step 2 A solution of 3 3 tert butyl 5 2 fluoro 4 2 methylcarbamoyl pyridin 4 yl oxyphenyl carbamoyl amino 1H pyrazol 1 yl benzyl N 9H fluoren 9 ylmethoxy carbonyl L valinate 0.20 g 0.23 mmol in piperidine 0.26 mL DMF 15 mL was allowed to stir at room temperature for 20 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and washed with water 3 . The combined organic layer was dried and concentrated. The crude material was purified via prep TLC CHCl 2M NHin MeOH 97 3 to afford 0.11 g 76 of the desired product as a white powder. MS m z 632.2 M H Retention time LC MS 3.11 min.

To a 0 C. solution of example 1 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 1.00 g 1.88 mmol in dichloromethane 15 mL was added dropwise acetyl chloride 0.15 mL 2.07 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 0 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layer was dried and concentrated. The crude material was purified via column chromatography CHCl 2M NHin MeOH 97 3 to afford 0.32 g 30 of the desired product as a white powder. MS m z 575.1 M H Retention time LC MS 3.55 min.

To a room temperature solution of 1 H tetrazole 0.45M in acetonitrile 56 mL 25.3 mmol solvent removed in vacuo prior to using in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL was added example 1 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 5.00 g 9.39 mmol and di t butyl N N diethylphosphoramidite 2.11 g 8.45 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 40 C. and a slurry of m chloroperoxybenzoic acid 85 in CHCl 2.74 g 12.2 mmol was added while keeping the reaction temperature below 0 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for 10 min and then an aqueous.solution of NaHSO 10 40 mL was added. After stirring for an additional 1 h at room temperature the reaction was transferred to a separatory funnel and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with NaHCO 2 50 mL dried NaSO and concentrated. The crude material was purified via column chromatography CHCl 2 M NHin MeOH 98 2 followed by recrystallization CHCl hexanes to afford 3.57 g 52 of the desired product as a white crystalline material. MS m z 724.9 M H Retention time LC MS 3.74 min.

To a room temperature solution of example 12 di tert butyl 3 3 tert butyl 5 2 fluoro 4 2 methylcarbamoyl pyridin 4 yl oxyphenyl carbamoyl amino 1H pyrazol 1 yl benzyl phosphate 0.45 g 0.62 mmol in dioxane 12 mL was slowly added HCl dioxane 4M 4 mL 16 mmol . A white precipitate formed and the suspension was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with ether 20 mL and the solids were collected. The resulting solids were washed with ether followed by hexanes to afford 0.40 g 94 of the desired product as a white powder. MS m z 612.9 M H Retention time LC MS 3.05 min.

To a room temperature solution of example 1 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 0.45 g 0.85 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 43 mL was added succinic anhydride 0.10 g 1.00 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed at stir at room temperature for 72 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was triturated with hexanes. The resulting white powder was filtered and washed with hexanes. The solids were re dissolved in EtOAc washed with sat. aqueous ammonium chloride solution 2 15 mL dried NaSO and concentrated to afford 0.49 g 91 of pure product. MS m z 633.1 M H Retention time LC MS 3.29 min.

To a 0 C. solution of example 1 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 0.15 g 0.28 mmol in dichloromethane 1.5 mL pyridine 0.5 mL was added dropwise methoxyacetyl chloride 0.03 mL 0.34 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for 72 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with sat. aqueous.NaHCO. The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried and concentrated. The crude material was purified via column chromatography CHCl MeOH 100 CHClto 98.5 1.5 to afford 0.16 g 96 of the desired product as a white solid. MS m z 605.1 M H Retention time LC MS 3.44 min.

To a room temperature solution of example 1 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 0.20 g 0.38 mmol and potassium carbonate 0.26 g 1.88 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was added dropwise propionyl chloride 0.05 mL 0.56 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight. The crude material was concentrated and purified via prep TLC CHCl 2M NHin MeOH 97 3 to afford 0.09 g 42 of the desired product as a white powder. MS m z 589.1 M H Retention time LC MS 3.68 min.

To a 0 C. solution of example 1 4 4 3 tert butyl 1 3 hydroxymethyl phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 ylcarbamoyl amino 3 fluorophenoxy N methylpyridine 2 carboxamide 0.10 g 0.19 mmol in dichloromethane 1.0 mL pyridine 0.3 mL was added dropwise 3 methylbutanonyl chloride 0.02 mL 0.23 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for 72 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with sat. aqueous NaHCO. The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried and concentrated. The crude material was purified via column chromatography CHCl MeOH 100 CHClto 98.5 1.5 to afford 0.02 g 18 of the desired product as a white solid. MS m z 617.3 M H Retention time LC MS 3.89 min.

In order that this invention may be better understood the following examples are set forth. These examples are for the purpose of illustration only and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any manner. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Demonstration of the activity of the compounds of the present invention may be accomplished through in vitro ex vivo and in vivo assays that are well known in the art. For example to demonstrate the activity of the compounds of the present invention the following assays may be used.

This assay was performed in 96 well opaque plates Costar 3915 in the TR FRET format. Reaction conditions were as follows 10 M ATP 25 nM poly GT biotin 2 nM Eu labelled phospho Tyr Ab PY20 Perkin Elmer 10 nM APC Perkin Elmer 7 nM Flk 1 kinase domain 1 DMSO 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 10 mM MgCl 0.1 mM EDTA 0.015 BRIJ 0.1 mg mL BSA 0.1 mercapto ethanol . Reaction was initiated upon addition of enzyme. Final reaction volume in each well was 100 L. Plates were read at both 615 and 665 nM on a Perkin Elmer Victor V Multilabel counter at about 1.5 2.0 hours after reaction initiation. Signal was calculated as a ratio 665 nm 615 nm 10000 for each well.

An ELISA format was used for the c Met biochemical assay. This assay uses the C terminal HIS tagged intracellular kinase domain 956 to 1390 amino acids human recombinant c Met in 96 well plates. 96 Well plates Costar 9018 coated with poly GluTyr Sigma P0275 were used in this assay. The poly GluTyr substrate coated on the plate was phosphorylated in a 100 L reaction volume with 2 nM c Met protein in an assay buffer 50 mM HEPES pH7.0 5 mM MnCl 0.1 BSA 0.5 mM sodium orthovanadate 0.1 mercaptoethanol with 0.2 M ATP Sigma A7699 . 2 L of compounds were added in as an 8 point ICdose curve ranging from 10 uM to 128 pM at a final concentration of 1 DMSO. After 25 minutes of incubation the assay reaction was stopped with 25 L of 100 mM EDTA. The plates were then washed and wells were treated with 100 L of 80 ng mL anti 4G10 HRP antibody Upstate 16 105 for 1 h. Plates were washed one final time and were developed with 100 L 3 3 5 5 TMB Sigma T8665 and quenched with 100 L 1M HCl. Plates were read on a Victor 2 plate reader Perkin Elmer and ICanalysis and calculation were performed using in house software.

Bcr Abl wt or mutant Bcr Abl T3151 kinase 0.17 nM was incubated with Myelin Basic Protein MBP 2 M in assay buffer consisting of 50 mM Tris pH 7.5 10 mM MgCl 1 mM EGTA 2 mM DTT 50 M ATP and 0.4 Ci of P ATP. Test compounds were added at varying concentrations final DMSO conc 1 prior to the addition of ATP. The reaction mixture was incubated for 1 hour at 32 C. The reaction was then stopped by addition of phosphoric acid final conc 1 and samples were transferred to filtermats and read in a betaplate reader. Inhibition of MBP phosphorylation by Bcr Abl wt or Bcr Abl T3151 was analyzed by using a 4 parameter fit and in house software.

The adherent tumor cell proliferation assay used to test the compounds of the present invention involves a readout called Cell Titre Glo developed by Promega Cunningham BA A Growing Issue Cell Proliferation Assays. Modern kits ease quantification of cell growth 2001 15 13 26 and Crouch S P et al. The use of ATP bioluminescence as a measure of cell proliferation and cytotoxicity 1993 160 81 88 .

H460 cells lung carcinoma purchased from ATCC were plated in 96 well plates at 3000 cells well in complete media with 10 Fetal Calf Serum and incubated 24 hours at 37 C. Twenty four hours after plating test compounds were added over a final concentration range of 10 nM to 20 M in serial dilutions at a final DMSO concentration of 0.2 . Cells were incubated for 72 hours at 37 C. in complete growth media after addition of the test compound. On day 4 using a Promega Cell Titer Glo Luminescent assay kit the cells were lysed and 100 microliters of substrate buffer mixture was added to each well mixed and incubated at room temperature for 8 minutes. The samples were read on a luminometer to measure the amount of ATP present in the cell lysates from each well which corresponds to the number of viable cells in that well. Values read at 24 hour incubation were subtracted as Day 0. For determination of ICvalues a linear regression analysis was used to determine drug concentration which results in a 50 inhibition of cell proliferation using this assay format. This protocol was applied to different cell lines of interest which include but are not limited to CAKI 1 MKN45 HCC2998 K562 H441 K812 MEG01 SUP15 HCT116 BaF3 Abl wt and BaF3 Abl T315I .

Table 1 illustrates the results of cell proliferation assays for various BaF3 cell lines which express different forms of Bcr Abl including the wild type form and K562 a human cell line expressing wild type Bcr Abl . It is of particular interest that BaF3 Abl T315I BaF3 Abl E255K BaF3 Abl M351T and BaF3 Abl Y253F are cell types that express Imatinib resistant mutations of Bcr Abl that have been observed in patients. Data for Example 1 are provided. For the BaF3 parental cell line that does not express Bcr Abl cell proliferation ICvalues greater than 3 M were determined for Example 1.

Table 1. Cell proliferation ICvalues M for various cell lines expressing wild type and mutant forms of Bcr Abl treated with Example 1.

It is believed that one skilled in the art using the preceding information and information available in the art can utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. It should be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that changes and modifications can be made to this invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as it is set forth herein. The topic headings set forth above and below are meant as guidance where certain information can be found in the application but are not intended to be the only source in the application where information on such topic can be found. All publications and patents cited above are incorporated herein by reference.

