---

title: Systems and methods for services exchange
abstract: A services computing system may include a server and a plurality of clients in communication with the server. The system may further include a plurality of service exchange units in communication with the server with each of the plurality of service exchange units providing a service to a portion of the plurality of clients based upon permissions and data received from the portion of the plurality of clients. A system contemplated herein helps to better manage complex business ecosystems with heterogeneous and/or homogenous groups of clients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615567&OS=08615567&RS=08615567
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08615567
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070220
---
The invention relates to the field of services science and more particularly to services computing and related methods.

There are a number of trends associated with the growth and use of the Internet. Services computing most prominently enabled by the Web services platform is one such trend. For example Service oriented architectures SOA are increasingly being used to provide and use software as interoperable Web services over the Internet. However a Web services based SOA is a specific system whose structures are based on interactions among individual Web services and their clients. Services computing to date does not provide a grouping concept for heterogeneous services to build SOA based on units that are on a higher level of abstraction than individual services.

Another major trend is related to the way that people use the Internet. Social communities and community platforms such as MySpace.com Flickr.com and YouTube.com attract very large numbers of individuals to share arbitrary content. From a technical viewpoint community platforms are Web portals that provide basic functionality for the dissemination and aggregation of data in large scale networks. Community practices center on the use of Web 2.0 technology that enables simple more ad hoc composition and content mash ups and documentation and content selection through less formal techniques such as social tagging and rating. In other words such community platforms are highly flexible systems exploiting the power of people networks but are usually limited to the dissemination and aggregation of data but do not integrate Web services.

Communities can be used to disseminate and aggregate heterogeneous services in doing so groups of heterogeneous service are created. Unfortunately this combination of Web services computing and community platforms has not been provided to date.

In view of the foregoing background it is therefore an object of the invention to provide a Web services platform that is flexible and which enables the dissemination and aggregation of services through heterogeneous services groups.

This and other objects features and advantages in accordance with the invention are provided by a service computing system that may include a server and a plurality of clients in communication with the server.

The system may further include a plurality of service exchange units in communication with the server with each of the plurality of service exchange units providing at least one service to a portion of the plurality of clients based upon permissions and data received from the portion of the plurality of clients. In other words each of the plurality of clients is a member of at least one service exchange unit. Accordingly a more flexible Web services platform that enables more than the dissemination and aggregation of data is provided and one that allows to create multiple groups of one or more services and the clients that use them.

Each of the plurality of service exchange units may maintain the availability of each service in confidence. Each of the plurality of service exchange units may have the permissions defined by at least one of the clients. Each of the plurality of service exchange units may also be created by at least one of the clients.

At least one of the services provided by the service exchange units may perform upon being invoked. Each of the service exchange units may communicate with the clients using an application programming interface. Each of the service exchange units may use tags defined by the clients. In addition the service exchange units may matchmake between the clients based upon the tags. Matchmaking may include the action of matching two clients together based on one client s confidential needs and requirements and the other client s confidential service offerings.

Each of the plurality of service exchange units may provide administrative control over at least one of the service access to the service use of the service and billing related to the service. At least one of the clients may host one of the service exchange units.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for services computing. The method may include providing a server in communication with the clients and the service exchange units. The method may further include providing at least one service via each of the service exchange units to a portion of the clients based upon permissions and data received from the portion of the clients.

The invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device or a magnetic storage device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring initially to a system for service computing is initially described. The system includes a server and a plurality of clients in communication with the server.

The server includes a server processor or other logic circuitry which is connected to server storage as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art. In other embodiments the server storage may be embedded in the server processor .

Each of the plurality of clients includes a respective client processor or other logic circuitry which is connected to a respective client storage as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art. In other embodiments each client storage may be embedded in a respective client processor 

The server communicates with the plurality of clients through a communication network via communication links as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art. The communication network is a wireless network and or a wired network.

The system further includes a plurality of service exchange units and in communication with the server for example. In one embodiment each of the plurality of service exchange units and provide at least one service to a portion of the plurality of clients based upon permissions and data received from the portion of the plurality of clients. The service may invoke system software application software or the like to enable functionality based on the data that is more than the dissemination and aggregation of data.

In one embodiment each of the plurality of service exchange units and maintains the availability of its respective service s in confidence. In other words each of the plurality of clients is unaware of the services offered by any of the service exchange units and unless a particular client has received and invoked a permission granted by one of the service exchange units. A permission grants particular rights within a service exchange unit and to the particular client who is a member. It is contemplated that a member is an individual or group that has been assigned access rights to interact with a service community by providing and or using one or more services offered by a service exchange unit.

In another embodiment each of the plurality of service exchange units and is created by at least one of the clients . Stated another way one of the clients acts as the administrator for the service exchange units and and selects such things as which services will be available on the service exchange unit. Further each of the plurality of service exchange units and have the permissions defined by a clients with administrative duties thereby permitting such client the power to control access to the service exchange unit.

In another embodiment each of the service exchange units and provides administrative control over at least one of the service access to the service use of the service and billing related to the service s . For instance the clients may exchange and or use service s on the service exchange units and with minimal administrative oversight because the system provides such.

In one embodiment the service exchange units and are hosted by at least one of the clients and the server . In another embodiment the service exchange units and are hosted by the server . In yet another embodiment the service exchange units and are hosted by at least one of the clients 

At least one of the services provided by the service exchange units and perform upon being invoked for example. In other words the service s to be invoked are already deployed and running. In another embodiment the service s is not just a directory or registry but an executable software program.

In one embodiment each of the clients communicate with the service exchange units and using an application programming interface API . In another embodiment each of the service exchange units and uses tags defined by the clients . The tags are terms such as keywords associated with a data set and or a particular function for instance. Such an association facilitates keyword searching between the term and the data set and or particular function.

In another embodiment each of the service exchange units and matchmakes between the clients and at least one of the services based upon the tags. Stated another way each of the service exchange units and determines the need s of the clients and identifies resources available among the service exchange units that may meet such need s .

One embodiment includes a service provider coupled to the service exchange units and . The service provide acts as a client to the service exchange units. Furthermore the service provider supplies one or more distributed services to member clients. For example client may use the contributed service running on service provider through service exchange unit . It is contemplated that many service providers may be coupled to the computing environment of the present invention offering various web services to the client community.

Another aspect of the invention is directed to a method for services computing which is now described with reference to flowchart of . The method begins at Block and may include providing a server in communication with clients and service exchange units and at Block . The method may further include providing a service via each of the service exchange units and to a portion of the clients based upon permissions and data received from the portion of the clients at Block . The method ends at Block .

The system is motivated by the desire to better manage complex business ecosystems that comprise varying groups of clients parties . As an example consider the following scenario from the healthcare industry.

The process of drug discovery requires careful planning and execution of pre clinical trials to determine the safety and effectiveness of a new drug. Pre clinical trials involve diverse activities and experiments which vary depending on the drug to be tested and the parties involved.

When a pharmaceutical company decides to begin a new preclinical trial its R D department first needs to identify the parties that will produce the drug starting from a chemical compound and the parties that will execute the experiments according to a specific protocol . The parties can be internal or external. Additional parties may get involved to analyze data produced by the experiments. In the case that external parties are involved such as hospitals universities or CRM Clinical Research Management companies the R D department has to choose the partners with which to do business and negotiate and agree on economical legal and scientific details. During the trial all parties need to work closely with each other exchanging information to monitor the process and possibly also modify the protocol. Complex algorithms need to be executed as well as dedicated data sources need to be accessed for analysis and integration of the data coming from the trial.

The complexity of the process is due to variations in the composition of the different potentially autonomous parties variations in regulations of the target market s of the drug and variations in the tasks and type of experiments to perform.

A scenario like the one presented different groups of parties collaborate by communicating and exchanging information with each other and by implementing processes that are tailored to the needs of a specific trial. The groups of parties can be considered service communities of varying scale where members of the community such as service exchange units and interact with each other by providing and using services.

Currently there is little or no Internet based system support for creating and maintaining such custom per project service communities such as service exchange units and . Existing approaches either address a specific technical concern only such as selecting a service from a group of available services that offer the same functionality or focus on community platforms that have little relationship to services computing and service oriented architecture SOA .

However we can observe a number of service marketplaces emerging including Salesforce.com Reardencomrnerce.com Strikelron.com and Jamcracker.com which offer e commerce capabilities to buy and sell services. Service marketplaces and platforms however are only a starting point to create and manage the domain specific per project communities such as service exchange units and discussed in the healthcare scenario above.

General marketplaces may be too large in scale in terms of members and services exchanged and additional structuring mechanisms beyond simple service registries are required. For example a runtime services grouping abstraction to loosely compose services of interest to select members is currently missing yet very desirable to have in support of the above healthcare scenario.

As a result system provides service exchange units and to create and manage per project communities such as service exchange units and within larger scale service communities and marketplaces. System is a dynamic group of services where only clients can contribute services for use by other clients for instance. Additionally any kind of service can be contributed to system and membership criteria can be defined by at least one of the clients 

Membership criteria can include the requirement for each client to implement one or more system specific service interfaces.

In one embodiment the use of the interface and membership criteria can be used to aid in load balancing and fault tolerance. This allows traditional distributed computing techniques to be offered by the system such as load balancing of services that implement the same interface or fault management through group communication protocols.

The main aspect of system however is to establish a dynamic community platform such as service exchange units and where services of interest to a community are grouped. Service exchange units and are created to provide member directed business and technical value add. System provides the mechanism for the clients to contribute various functional and extra functional services. System builds on research and work on adaptive and extensible middleware elevating these concepts to the services marketplace layer. Correspondingly system services that are contributed can include services that intercept the invocation of other contributed services.

While each service exchange unit and describes a services composition itself system is a group of diverse services that are contributed by clients additional data management functions and choreography functions for services composition such as sequencing of invocations can be provided through the system .

System also integrates selected community practices of Web 2.0 including community based tagging to provide meta information for services. Services contributed by client can be tagged using a set of system specific community terms and browsing and matchmaking functions may be applied using these tags.

System supports service exchange unit and creation at any time termination of existing service exchange unit and service exchange unit membership management. Membership and value add services are applied to each service exchange unit and services group basis. In summary system provides a runtime structuring mechanism that supports horizontal vertical domain specific per project grouping of services private trusted services offerings using a membership based access control and trust model and social networks and interaction practices in services composition leveraging a spectrum of formal and less formal services description matchmaking and composition techniques.

Consider again the healthcare scenario described above. At least three different service exchange unit and each one featuring different objectives different clients and different services can be identified.

A first example is a service exchange unit and created by the pharmaceutical company to group the clients universities CMRs hospitals etc. offering pre clinical services. The membership based aspect guarantees that only trusted parties will publish the types of experiments they can execute and also that customized information such as community specific offers is visible only to members of the service exchange unit and . In addition recognized experts can provide matchmaking services to compare the services offered by group clients and or third parties.

As a second example consider per project service exchange unit and created by the R D department in order to manage information and tasks associated to specific trials. Each service exchange unit and can group the legal and financial services that the pharmaceutical company will make available to the other parties. The clients producing the drug can publish a service to order new quantities of drugs and to distribute information about the process used to create it.

Finally the clients which are members of a given service exchange unit and executing the trial can share as services the possibility to access the data sources containing the information generated during the experiments. As an example of a service exchange unit and membership requirement all clients may have to provide a service implementing a service exchange unit and specific interface to accept generic inquiries coming from other clients. Using these per project per trial service exchange unit and the pharmaceutical company is able to monitor all the internal and external communications about a trial which today are mainly distributed in emails as well as reduce the time taken to gather the data coming from the experiments.

A third example of a service exchange unit and can be envisioned to group services used by researchers to analyze the data coming from the experiments and to improve decision making for possible protocol modifications. The services contributed by clients in this service exchange unit and can span from services to access to experimental data services executing specific complex algorithms analytic services and services to access computational power as well as data storage to store complex data.

In one embodiment the system provides a service exchange unit and creation section. This is the only public endpoint of system and it permits clients of the larger community to create new service exchange unit and by providing a name membership criteria and a set of initial tags for the service exchange unit for instance. As a result a new service exchange unit and specific platform is spawned. In another embodiment the service exchange unit and administration is available only to the creator and administrators of the service exchange unit and this creation section can be used to terminate the service exchange unit or to supply additional applicable tags for the service exchange unit or the like.

Clients who are members of a given service exchange unit and can create new or become members of existing service exchange unit and . As service exchange unit and members clients may contribute services to the service exchange unit.

The system provides a service exchange unit and information section. This is the only public endpoint of the service exchange unit and providing general information about the service exchange unit to the larger community for example. Such information may include a summary of the services available membership criteria and the social tags that describe the service exchange unit or the like. In one embodiment clients can apply for membership via this information section and may be approved or denied based on the membership criteria.

Clients which are members of a given service exchange unit and can contribute consume tag and compose services. In addition to application services value add services such as service exchange unit and analytics and interface tag based services matchmaking can also be contributed by clients including administrators and later be consumed by other clients.

Further as different kinds of services are contributed to a service exchange unit and different rules to their composition exist. For instance one client may contribute an application service to a service exchange unit and while another client may contribute a value add service to the same service exchange unit. The most important distinction between these two types of services is that value add services are applied to or injected into the use of application services. Value add services provide extra functionality such as monitoring billing security reliability matchmaking and analytics. Thus the usage of a contributed application service may be intercepted by one or more selected value add services.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that other modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

