---

title: Mini toolbar user interface
abstract: A toolbar in a client application such as a web browser may be miniaturized. The miniature toolbar annexes itself to a part of the chrome region of the client application, modifying the functionality of the annexed part. The annexed part may be a search box. At least a subset of the features of the toolbar is accessible from the miniature toolbar, but some toolbar features may not be accessible from the miniature toolbar. Some features of the miniature toolbar may replace some features of the annexed search box.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08042060&OS=08042060&RS=08042060
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08042060
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070403
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 790 411 filed Apr. 7 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to graphical user interfaces and more particularly to a graphical user interface for a toolbar that may be miniaturized or minimized.

A challenge in the design of graphical user interfaces GUIs is allocating the available screen space amongst the various components of the GUI. For example in a web browser various components such as the status bar navigation bar and toolbars compete with the webpage display area for screen space.

A current trend in web browser GUIs is the proliferation of client assistants or toolbars that add functionality on top of the functionality offered by the web browser. These toolbars offer features such as performing searches on search engines blocking pop up advertisements automatically filling out forms and so forth. The addition of these toolbars to the web browser GUI can contribute to a cluttered web browser user interface and can take away screen space from the webpage display area.

Accordingly there is a need for a space efficient graphical user interface for web browsers and other browser applications.

According to some embodiments a user interface includes a toolbar. The toolbar includes one or more first selectable options corresponding to operations and a second selectable option. Selection of the second selectable option activates annexation of an object corresponding to the toolbar to at least a part of a chrome region of the user interface thereby enabling selection of the first selectable options from the chrome region.

According to some embodiments a method of modifying a user interface having a chrome region includes annexing a client assistant interface comprising one or more selectable options to at least a part of the chrome region thereby enabling selection of the selectable options from the chrome region. The annexing includes replacing at least one selectable option that was previously part of the chrome region.

A toolbar in a user interface may be miniaturized or minimized. The miniaturized toolbar annexes itself to the chrome region of the user interface whereby the functionality associated with the toolbar may be accessed from the annexed part of the chrome region.

Each of the above identified elements may be stored in one or more of the previously mentioned memory devices and corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above identified modules or programs i.e. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments memory may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore memory may store additional modules and data structures not described above.

The client computer is a device from which a user may access documents. The client may be any device capable of communicating with other computers devices and so forth through one or more networks. Examples of client devices may include without limitation desktop computers notebook or laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs mobile phones network terminals and so forth. The client device includes one or more client applications for communicating with other computers or devices and accessing documents or services. In some embodiments the client application is a web browser for viewing documents such as webpages written in the Hypertext Markup Language HTML and images.

The chrome region holds various buttons menus and other user interface components for activating and deactivating operations and functions of the web browser changing settings displaying information and so forth. User interface components that may be located in the chrome region may include a title bar a navigation bar and one or more toolbars such as a functional toolbar or a bookmarks or links toolbar . The title bar displays a title of the document being viewed in the document display region and the name of the web browser application. The navigation bar provides tools for navigating through documents such as back and forward buttons a stop download button and a box for displaying or typing the Uniform Resource Locator URL of a website or document. A functional toolbar includes buttons menus and the like for accessing various features or tools. A bookmarks or links toolbar includes one or more buttons or the like for links to websites or documents.

Documents are shown in the document display region . If a document to be shown in the document display region has a larger horizontal dimension or vertical dimension than the respective dimension of the document display region scrollbars not shown may be provided to the user for scrolling the document. The status bar displays various information such as the download progression of a document or the target of a hyperlink.

While the description above describes the chrome region and the status bar separately it should be appreciated that the status bar may be considered a part of the chrome region .

The chrome region may also include a browser search box . The browser search box provides the functionality of searching a search engine without having to navigate to a search engine website first. The search box may include a search box menu . From the menu the user may configure the search box including selecting the search engine to be searched i.e. the search engine to be used for executing searches . The menu may be accessed by the user clicking on a search box chevron or the like

In some embodiments the chrome region may be configured to allow some customization by the user. For example the user may add and remove links from a bookmarks toolbar . The user may add or remove components from a functional toolbar . The user may rearrange the order of the links or components in the bookmarks toolbar or the functional toolbar . The user can also hide the functional toolbar or bookmark toolbar . The customizability by the user may be limited to a subset of the chrome region . In some embodiments an application programming interface API to the customizable region of the chrome region may be provided.

The remainder of the chrome region may be configured to be a reserved region where the user may have no or limited capability for customization. Alternately stated in normal operation the user is typically unable to modify the tools and features displayed in the reserved region s of a browser s chrome region. For example the user may be prevented from removing or rearranging components in the reserved region of the chrome. Furthermore user interface components made using the API described above may be restricted from interacting with user interface components in the reserved region. In some embodiments user interface components that may be displayed or included in the reserved region include the navigation bar and the search box . In some embodiments the reserved region of the chrome comprises the title bar and the navigation bar . One aspect of the present invention involves annexing a miniaturized or minimized toolbar to a portion of the reserved region of a browser s chrome region thereby superseding some of the customization restrictions normally associated with the reserved region of the browser s chrome region.

A client assistant or toolbar that provides functionality in addition to what is provided natively by the web browser may be placed in the chrome region . The client assistant toolbar may be miniaturizable. The miniaturizable toolbar may include various buttons menus and other components selectable by the user for accessing features operations and tools. Among the components is a search box . The search box may be configured to search in any of a plurality of search engines. In some embodiments the plurality of search engines are all associated with a single search engine provider. In some embodiments the search box may provide search term suggestions or suggested spelling corrections to search queries typed within.

In some embodiments the toolbar may maintain a search history log e.g. search history log of search queries searched from the search box . In some embodiments if the toolbar is associated with a particular search engine when the user enters and searches queries in the associated search engine the toolbar may log those searches in the search history log as well. The search history log may be maintained until the user closes the web browser or maintained across browser sessions and may be cleared at the user s command. In some embodiments whenever a user types in a query into the toolbar search box past queries that have terms matching those of the typed in query may be displayed.

The toolbar also includes a selectable component or option for miniaturizing or minimizing the toolbar. In some embodiments the component may be a button on the toolbar . The component or option for miniaturizing or minimizing the toolbar may be appropriately labeled in the toolbar s GUI for easy recognition by the user. In the component has an exemplary label of Mini Mode . In some other embodiments the component may be an option in a menu that is accessible by clicking on a chevron or the like in the toolbar . When the option is selected the toolbar is hidden from display and a mini toolbar object is activated further details of which are described below.

As used herein the mini toolbar object is a module of the toolbar and includes an associated user interface component. The mini toolbar object allows access to at least a subset of the features and tools that the toolbar provides. The mini toolbar object can annex itself to another part of the chrome region modifying the user interface and functionality of the annexed part.

One part of the chrome region to which the mini toolbar object may annex is the browser search box which is a region of the navigation bar in this example even if the browser search box is in a reserved region of the chrome region . In some embodiments the mini toolbar object may annex the search box by overlaying its user interface component over the search box in the user interface. In some other embodiments the mini toolbar object takes over the search box and adds its user interface component directly to the search box modifying the functionality of the search box . The result is a mini toolbar search box sometimes herein called a mini toolbar which is short for miniaturized toolbar or minimized toolbar . The mini toolbar includes a menu which may be accessed by selecting a chevron or the like. From the menu of the mini toolbar a user can access at least a subset of the features tools and operations that may be accessed from the toolbar which may sometimes be called the full toolbar . For example some of the features accessible from the toolbar may be accessible from the mini toolbar menu . The user may also perform searches from the mini toolbar search box as he would from the toolbar search box . In some embodiments some features tools or operations that are accessible from the toolbar are not accessible from the mini toolbar search box or the mini toolbar menu while in other embodiments all the features of the toolbar are accessible from the mini toolbar or its menu .

In some embodiments the mini toolbar search box and the toolbar search box share a combined search history log. As a result search queries submitted using the mini toolbar search box are logged and are accessible from the toolbar search box and vice versa.

The features or operations accessible from the mini toolbar search box may replace at least some of the features that were accessible from the browser search box . For example the mini toolbar search box and the browser search box may offer different lists of search engines that may be searched using the respective search box.

While the mini toolbar search box is active the toolbar may be hidden or visible. When the mini toolbar search box is activated the toolbar is hidden from view as shown in . The mini toolbar menu may display a selectable option to make the toolbar visible Show Toolbar in menu or even to switch to a toolbar only mode Toolbar Mode in menu that deactivates the mini toolbar search box and brings back the browser search box .

The toolbar may also be visible while the mini toolbar search box is active as shown in . While the toolbar is visible the mini toolbar menu may include a selectable option to hide the toolbar Hide Toolbar in menu and an option to switch to a toolbar only mode Toolbar Mode in menu and deactivate the mini toolbar search box . The toolbar may include an option to hide or deactivate the mini toolbar search box Hide Mini in menu and an option to switch to a mini toolbar only mode and hide the toolbar Mini Mode in menu . In some embodiments when the mini toolbar search box is hidden or deactivated the browser search box becomes active and visible.

The Go button when clicked by the user initiates a search by a search engine of the search query entered by the user into the mini toolbar search box . The Go button provides another way to activate the search in addition to hitting an Enter key on a keyboard or the like.

The search type menu provides a variety of search types or search engines that may be accessed from the mini toolbar search box . Search types may include for example web search images search news search shopping search and local search. When a search is activated by pressing the Enter key on a keyboard or clicking on the Go button a search of the type selected in the search type menu is performed using whatever string is typed into the mini toolbar search box . For example if Web Search is selected a Web search is performed. On the other hand if Image Search is selected a search of images is performed. In some embodiments Web search is the default search type. The search type menu may be accessed by selecting a search type menu chevron .

The mini toolbar search box helps save screen space for the document display region while still providing access to at least some of the features and tools of the toolbar . Instead of forcing the user into a choice between having the toolbar and less screen space for documents or having the screen space and losing the toolbar features the miniaturizable toolbar annexes itself to another part of the chrome region allowing the toolbar to be hidden while its features remain accessible to the user giving more screen space to the document display region without giving up all of the toolbar s functionality. The options to hide one or both provide the user with flexibility to balance his need for document screen space and toolbar features or ease of access to toolbar features according to his or her preferences.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

