---

title: Synchronization of mobile terminals
abstract: Embodiments are directed to activation and performance of multiple-subscriber-identity-module (“multi-SIM”) automatic synchronization of mobile devices. A user may specify one or more data types for which multi-SIM automatic synchronization should be performed, which may include incoming calls, sent text messages, and the like. Information about an answered incoming call may be sent from a first mobile device to at least one additional mobile device so that the at least one mobile device may update at least one call log and may remove at least one notification for the call accordingly. When multi-SIM automatic synchronization is performed for sent text messages, the first mobile device may send a copy of the sent text message to the at least one additional mobile device so that the received copy may be stored in the sent messages folder of the at least one additional mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08010158&OS=08010158&RS=08010158
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08010158
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20071221
---
Embodiments relate generally to synchronization of mobile terminals. More specifically embodiments relate to synchronization of mobile terminals that share a common telephone number.

In a multi SIM subscriber identity module scenario a mobile device user may have multiple devices that share a single phone number and or subscriber identity. A SIM may be part of a removable smart card ICC Integrated Circuit Card also referred to as a SIM card for mobile telephony devices such as mobile computers and mobile phones. SIM cards may be used for securely storing the service subscriber key used to identify a subscriber. A SIM card allows users to change mobile devices e.g. phones by simply removing the SIM card from one mobile device and inserting it into a different mobile device.

In a multi SIM service there may be two or more SIM cards with the same phone number such that it is possible to have incoming phone calls and other services like messages directed to two devices at the same time. For example a user using two phones but having only one phone number may be reached via either of the two phones.

Such a scenario may cause problems though due to the two mobile devices not communicating with each other. Automatic communication between such mobile devices is typically not possible as the SIM cards phone numbers are not mediated to the phones in which the SIM cards are placed. This means that the phone in which the SIM card is placed is not aware of the number of the SIM card. Thus it is not possible for the device to automatically check whether two SIM cards have the same number. Instead the input for this information may come from some other source e.g. the user of the phone.

For example in the case of an incoming call to a mobile phone the call is typically alerted in both phones. Once the call is answered in one of the phones it remains as a missed call in the other phone. This makes it difficult to track which of the calls were really missed and which ones were answered.

For example suppose that a first mobile phone is in active use and the other mobile phone is in silent mode in a user s hand bag. When taking the phone out of the hand bag after three days the user notices that there are 23 missed calls. In reality only 2 calls were actually missed i.e. 21 calls were answered via the first phone . Finding out which calls were really missed requires a lot of manual work by the user. Further because the phone clocks may be set to different times and one or both of the time settings of the phones may have changed since some or all of the calls have been received and or missed it may even be impossible to determine manually which calls were actually missed.

As such improved techniques for automatically synchronizing data between mobile devices would advance the art.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. The summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is neither intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention nor to delineate the scope of the invention. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description below.

Embodiments are directed to activation and performance of multiple subscriber identity module multi SIM automatic synchronization of mobile devices. A user may specify one or more data types for which multi SIM automatic synchronization should be performed which may include incoming calls sent text messages and the like. Information about an answered incoming call may be sent from a first mobile device to at least one additional mobile device so that the at least one mobile device may update at least one call log and may remove at least one notification for the call accordingly. When multi SIM automatic synchronization is performed for sent text messages the first mobile device may send a copy of the sent text message to the at least one additional mobile device so that the received copy may be stored in the sent messages folder of the at least one additional mobile device.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Certain embodiments are directed to synchronizing call logs sent messages and the like in a multi SIM subscriber identity module scenario where a user has multiple devices that can be accessed by a single phone number. For example when a call is answered a missed call notification is not shown in the other phone. Instead logs are updated in both phones to indicate that the call was answered.

Computer executable instructions and data used by processor and other components within mobile device may be stored in a computer readable memory . The memory may be implemented with any combination of read only memory modules or random access memory modules optionally including both volatile and nonvolatile memory. Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling mobile device to perform various functions. Alternatively some or all of mobile device computer executable instructions may be embodied in hardware or firmware not shown .

Mobile device may be configured to wirelessly exchange messages with other devices via for example telecom transceiver . The mobile device may also be provided with other types of transceivers transmitters and or receivers such as Bluetooth infrared and the like.

When a user activates multi SIM automatic synchronization a Multi SIM activation query may be displayed as shown at with text such as By activating this service you can keep two phones with the same phone number up to date. The other phone should support the functionality. WAP unconfirmed push authorization should be set on in both phones. Information will be copied to the other phone as well as shown in .

In accordance with certain embodiments when automatic synchronization is activated one or more items that are displayed in a phone s standby state notifications may be synchronized including but not limited to missed calls missed POC Push to talk Over Cellular calls POC callback requests new messages invitations instant messages E mail messages voice messages and audio messages.

If the phone is in flight mode or offline mode an information note with text Service can not be activated in offline mode may be displayed.

If a user activates multi SIM automatic synchronization in response to the multi SIM activation query shown in a multi selection list for synchronization data types may be displayed as shown at .

Activating multi SIM automatic synchronization on a first mobile device may affect one or more other mobile devices. For example a user may have a first mobile phone referred to herein as phone A for use during the work week and a second mobile phone referred to herein as phone B for use on weekends. Examples involving two phones are discussed herein but in certain embodiments three or more mobile devices may perform multi SIM automatic synchronization with one another.

A request may be sent from mobile device A to mobile device B to activate multi SIM automatic synchronization as shown at which may cause settings of mobile device A to be created in mobile device B. While the settings are being created in mobile device B mobile device A may display a screen such as the one shown in .

Clocks in both mobile devices A and B may be checked. Each mobile device may send to the other mobile device information about each mobile device s time setting and any differences in the time settings between the devices for particular operations may be calculated based on any time differences between the mobile devices. Thus if a device clock time difference has been noticed e.g. 1 min 25 seconds between the two devices this is taken into consideration when events are compared. If an incoming call from a same number is noticed to have taken place at 11.00.00 in one device and at 11.01.25 in the other one and it has been answered on one device but missed on the other device the two instances of the call may be considered to be for the same call. Thus in the device on which the call was missed the call is marked as an answered call. A small time difference may be accepted because there may be external factors such as connection creation that may cause a small delay. Time difference calculation may be performed without alerting the user to any calculated time difference.

When a mobile device s clock time has been changed by the user or by the system the time change may be taken into account and the one or more other mobile devices with which the mobile device has activated multi SIM automatic synchronization e.g. phone B may be notified.

In mobile device B the user may be asked for confirmation. For example a message such as An attempt to activate Multi SIM usage has been made by another mobile device. To have two mobile devices with the same number up to date WAP unconfirmed push authorization should be set on. Activate the multi SIM automatic synchronization service If the user does not respond affirmatively to activate the multi SIM automatic synchronization service then the service may not be activated as shown by following the no branch from to mobile device A may be notified accordingly as shown in and a multi SIM automatic synchronization authorization value may return to inactive.

If mobile device A does not receive a confirmation of multi SIM automatic synchronization being activated after a time out an error message such as The other mobile device was not found. Check that WAP unconfirmed push is on may be displayed. If there continues to be no response from mobile device B a query may be displayed No response from the other mobile device. Try again If the user declines the query a multi SIM usage settings value may be returned to Multi SIM usage off. 

If mobile device B accepts the multi SIM usage request and settings from mobile device A then the yes branch from is followed to an updating data message similar to the one shown in may be displayed by mobile device B and mobile device B s multi SIM value may be turned on as shown at .

Once both mobile devices have accepted activation of multi SIM automatic synchronization Multi SIM automatic synchronization settings e.g. data types WAP unconfirmed push authorization time difference calculation and the like may be made in both mobile devices as shown at . An updating data notification such as the one shown in may be displayed as shown at and mobile device A s multi SIM value may be turned on as shown at .

Once multi SIM automatic synchronization is activated on one or more mobile devices performance of multi SIM automatic synchronization may begin.

Periodic monitoring may be performed in each mobile device which is involved in multi SIM automatic synchronization for the occurrence of events for which multi SIM automatic synchronization is being performed. For example when mobile device A or mobile device B notices an action that affects multi SIM automatic synchronization appropriate information may be sent to the other mobile device.

For example shows example steps for performing multi SIM automatic synchronization for an incoming call in accordance with certain embodiments. An incoming call is answered by mobile device A and mobile device A s log is updated to show that the call was answered as shown at and . Information about the answered call is sent to device B as shown by the arrow between and .

The same incoming call that was answered by mobile device A was not answered by mobile device B and mobile device B s log and notification show the call as a missed call as shown at and . In response to receiving the information about the answered call from device A device B s log is updated accordingly and the notification of the missed call is removed as shown at . Existing logs application and messaging systems already have API s Application Programming Interfaces that can be used to reset the messages like 3 missed calls and the like.

Time stamps along with the other information that data being synchronized contains may be used to find matching synchronization items. Mobile devices typically do not have a stable system time. Time settings may be changed by the user or by the network. In certain embodiments this situation may be addressed by sending the device s system time during each synchronization session. In this way the changes of the device s system time will be taken into account when comparing the items time stamps. Items may be noted as corresponding to the same item if the other data matches and time stamps would belong to the same time window calculated based on the system time information. Because the precise time between synchronization sessions when the time setting was changed is unknown two time windows may be used. One time window may be used in which the time has not changed and in the other time window the time is considered to have changed for the duration of the time window. This solution does not cover all the cases but would typically be an accurate enough approximation.

If the other mobile device is not in range for communication synchronisation may be tried according to defined settings and may be performed when it is possible. For example communication may be attempted every 5 minutes for the first 30 minutes every 30 minutes for the next 12 hours and every 120 minutes after that.

If data type modifications are done in one of the mobile devices information may be sent to the other one or more mobile devices in a manner similar to that discussed above in connection with Multi SIM automatic synchronization activation. Similarly if Multi SIM automatic synchronization usage is turned off in one of the mobile devices information may be sent to the other one or more mobile devices in a manner similar to that discussed above in connection with Multi SIM automatic synchronization activation.

In certain embodiments multi SIM synchronization may happen periodically or based on requests. The request may be made manually or automatically after one or more communication events. One implementation may include operator network driven functionality in which the operator performs the call log update synchronization by sending signalling messages based on the network.

In another implementation a transaction log may be created locally. The transaction log may then be periodically sent to the network and or one or more other mobile devices. The network may send the log to Multi SIM devices and the synchronization may be done locally based on this log. The sending method may be a WAP unconfirmed push message which is not visible to the user. The transaction log may contain information that specifies where to save the arrived messages and which calls have been answered and which have not been answered and the like.

In yet another implementation a network operator may connect a data call or other connection between the multi SIM devices and the transaction logs may then be synchronized via that connection. The network operator may have a list of the multi SIM numbers and may send the synchronization logs concerning phone calls and information about answered calls to multi SIM devices. is a schematic diagram that shows signal flow for multi SIM call status synchronization in accordance with certain embodiments. As shown in in response to user making a call to user the network operator may obtain information about user from a user database and may send an incoming call signal to user s mobile devices i.e. mobile device and mobile device . Upon receiving a call answered signal from one of user s mobile devices e.g. mobile device the network operator may send a WAP unconfirmed push request to cancel call dialogs from an idle screen and to change the status of the log entry for the call on any other mobile devices e.g. mobile device from a missed call to an answered call.

For synchronization of text messages the used terminal may send a synchronization log to the network operator which then may send the synchronization information to the other terminals SIM s. is a schematic diagram that shows signal flow for multi SIM message synchronization in accordance with certain embodiments. As shown in in response to user sending a text message to user the network operator may obtain information about user from a user database and may send SMS to user s mobile devices i.e. mobile device and mobile device . Upon receiving a message read signal from one of user s mobile devices e.g. mobile device the network operator may send a WAP unconfirmed push message to change the message status on any other mobile devices e.g. mobile device from an unread message to a read message.

In still another implementation synchronization may be performed locally over Bluetooth or an analogous local connectivity radio when the terminals are in relatively close proximity to one another.

A device user may enable or disable such a sent text message synchronization service as desired via a settings menu.

In certain alternate embodiments a network operator may host a service that sends the WAP unconfirmed push messages. In these embodiments the copies of sent text messages are not sent from the mobile device. But the message receiving logic and settings UI aspects discussed in connection with the embodiments of may be present in the alternate embodiments.

One or more aspects of the invention may be embodied in computer executable instructions such as in one or more program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types when executed by a processor in a computer or other device. The computer executable instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk optical disk removable storage media solid state memory RAM etc. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. In addition the functionality may be embodied in whole or in part in firmware or hardware equivalents such as integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGA application specific integrated circuits ASIC and the like. The term processor and memory comprising executable instructions should be interpreted to include the variations described in this paragraph and equivalents thereof.

For example in certain embodiments functions including but not limited to the following functions may be performed by a processor executing computer executable instructions that are recorded on a computer readable medium displaying a query for user input regarding activation of multiple subscriber identity module multi SIM automatic synchronization in response to user input indicating that multi SIM automatic synchronization should be activated displaying a query for user input regarding one or more data types for which multi SIM automatic synchronization should be performed sending from a first mobile device to at least one additional mobile device a request to activate multi SIM automatic synchronization on the at least one additional mobile device for the one or more data types for which multi SIM automatic synchronization should be performed and upon receiving from the at least one additional mobile device notification of acceptance of the request to activate multi SIM automatic synchronization on the at least one additional mobile device activating multi SIM automatic synchronization on the first mobile device wherein the one or more data types for which multi SIM automatic synchronization should be performed includes incoming calls and sending from the first mobile device to the at least one additional mobile device information about an answered incoming call.

Embodiments include any novel feature or combination of features disclosed herein either explicitly or any generalization thereof. While embodiments have been described with respect to specific examples including presently preferred modes of carrying out the invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are numerous variations and permutations of the above described systems and techniques. Thus the spirit and scope of the invention should be construed broadly as set forth in the appended claims.

