---

title: Architecture for optical metro ethernet service level agreement (SLA) management
abstract: A system for managing one or more service level agreements associated with a switched metro Ethernet network is disclosed and manages one or more service level agreements associated with a switched metro Ethernet network. The system also includes a service level agreement (SLA) management reporting system (MRS) and a performance engine (PE) data filter coupled to the SLA-MRS. Further, the system includes one or more network elements connected to the PE data filter, wherein the SLA-MRS is configured to receive performance data from the PE data filter and at least partially based on the performance data validate one or more customer claims regarding an SLA violation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07940677&OS=07940677&RS=07940677
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 07940677
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070605
---
Ethernet is a local area network architecture that was developed in the late 1970s for use in offices e.g. to interconnect computers to each other and to a common printer. In recent years companies have begun to develop ways to expand Ethernet principles to wide area networks e.g. using Internet routers that are interconnected in various ways. The result has been the creation of switched metro Ethernet data networks.

In an effort to market switched metro Ethernet services service providers can offer varying levels of service for different prices. Moreover a service can be considered a high level service and may be offered at a premium price if it has certain characteristics that are beneficial to customers. For example a service provider may offer a service in which data is delivered at a relatively high packet delivery rate. Further a service level agreement between a service provider and a customer may state that the data will be delivered at or above a particular packet delivery rate and the customer will pay a particular fee for that promised packet delivery rate. However it can be difficult to provide an indication to a customer that the service they are receiving is meeting the level agreed to in the service level agreement.

Accordingly there is a need for a system and method for managing one or more service level agreements in a switched metro Ethernet.

In a preferred embodiment a system manages one or more service level agreements associated with a switched metro Ethernet network. The system includes a service level agreement SLA management reporting system MRS and a performance engine PE data filter coupled to the SLA MRS. Further the system includes one or more network elements connected to the PE data filter wherein the SLA MRS is configured to receive performance data from the PE data filter and at least partially based on the performance data validate one or more customer claims regarding an SLA violation.

Referring initially to a monitoring system associated with an optical Ethernet metropolitan area network OPT E MAN is shown and is generally designated . As shown the system can include a service level agreement SLA management reporting system MRS . In a particular embodiment the SLA MRS can be used to validate customer claims on OPT E MAN SLA violations. The SLA MRS can include a SLA graphical user interface GUI module which in turn can provide a GUI described in detail below.

As illustrated in the system can include a customer network management file transfer protocol CNM FTP engine connected to the SLA MRS . The SLA MRS can provide SLA information to the CNM FTP engine . The system can also include a business delegate layer BDL coupled to the SLA MRS . The BDL can include an inventory management module . The BDL can exchange customer information with the SLA MRS . Further the BDL can provide network inventory and configuration information to the CNM FTP engine .

As depicted in the system can also include a performance engine PE data filter coupled to the SLA MRS . One or more network elements can be coupled to the PE data filter . The network elements can include one or more network service engines NSE one or more PEs one or more core devices one or more edge devices one or more additional network devices or a combination thereof.

A web based capacity management WBCM system can be coupled to the PE data filter . The PE data filter can provide capacity management data to the WBCM system and performance data to the SLA MRS . also indicates that an inventory data correlator can be coupled to the WBCM system the SLA MRS and the CNM FTP engine .

Still referring to the system can include a repair data module connected to the SLA MRS . In a particular embodiment the repair data module can be connected to the SLA MRS via open database connectivity ODBC . Alternatively the repair data module can be connected to the SLA MRS via java database connectivity JDBC . The repair data module can exchange trouble ticket information with the SLA MRS . also shows that the system can include a work force administration control WFA C module .

In a particular embodiment the system describe herein can be used to monitor and manage an OPT E MAN network. through illustrate exemplary OPT E MAN network configurations. The SLR MRS can collect calculate and display customer and port level network availability information. Network availability data can be based on close trouble reports from the WFA C module received via the repair data module . The SLA MRS can support multi tenant conditions in which multiple customers share an edge device or a core device. The SLA GUI provided by the SLA MRS can allow a technician at an enhanced network operations center ENOC to access the system in order to validate and verify customer claims regarding OPT E MAN SLA violations.

One or more NSEs can provide combined performance and capacity raw data using one or more PE collectors e.g. probes. The performance data can be provided to the SLA MRS and the SLR MRS can collect the data normalize and correlate the data and further correlate the performance data with customer data. The inventory management module can provide customer information and circuit information for data correlation. The repair data module can provide trouble ticket information e.g. resolved trouble ticket information open trouble ticket information number of trouble tickets frequency of trouble tickets etc.

In a particular embodiment SLA service assurance agent SAA data can be collected for metro nodes. Probes can send a predetermined number of test packets per a predetermined time interval e.g. five minutes. Each test packet can travel round trip. A packet can travel from an initiating node A to a responding node Z and then the packet can return to the initiating node A to report the result of the test packet to a management information base MIB within the initiating node A . A data collector within a PE can periodically poll the MIB within each initiating node A to retrieve the content of the MIB and report the information to the SLA MRS via the PE data filter .

Probe data can be directionally independent. In other words the data reported for a particular initiating node A to a particular responding node Z is applicable from the responding node Z to the initiating node A . Probes can be configured differently for core to core testing core to edge testing and edge to edge testing. Moreover probes can be configured differently for different classes of service e.g. bronze silver and gold. Each probe can report a complete set of information e.g. packet delivery rate PDR latency and jitter. PDR is a measure of what percentage of packets that were offered to a network actually reach the packet destination. Latency is a measure of the delay that one or more packets experience as the travel through a network. Latency can include time spent in buffers and propagation delay. Jitter is a measure of the variance in inter packet arrival rate at a particular destination.

In a particular embodiment a technician at the ENOC can validate a customer claim of network availability SLA violations after the customer has notified the ENOC of the network outage and a trouble ticket has been opened in response to the reported outage. A closed ticket can be eligible for scrubbing for a predetermined number of days e.g. three business days after the end of the calendar month in which it was closed. A trouble report can be also be scrubbed for a predetermined number of days e.g. three business days past the calendar month in which the trouble report was closed. In order to determine whether a trouble ticket has been scrubbed or not the date the ticket was last updated can be checked each night.

The SLA MRS can distinguish between a retail customer and a wholesale customer at the SLA level. For a particular Ethernet virtual connection EVC path a point of presence POP can be a retail customer if the POP is the originating customer. In other cases the POP would be a wholesale customer. A POP can be a valid originating customer and a valid wholesale customer. The SLA MRS can search by POP location and produce SLA information for all customers connected to that POP. In other words the user can search for all POP EVC paths SLA performance metric or ports network availability even if the POP is not the originating customer. Additionally the SLA MRS can map a POP to another POP with regard to a SLA. In other words it can be valid for both the A side and Z side customers for an EVC Path to be a POP. In such a case one of the POPs can be the originating customer.

In a particular embodiment the SLA MRS can accept inventory data files in support of point to point and Multi tenant capability. Further the SLA MRS can support conditions where multiple devices reside at the same building site. For example if two or more routers are located in at the same site address.

Class of service can be associated with a port order UNI port. The class of service of the point to point EVC circuit can be the lowest common denominator of the port order classes of service associated with it. The SLA MRS can support a multi tenant to multi tenant configuration. The SLA MRS can also support single tenant to single tenant configuration. Moreover the SLA MRS can support multi tenant to single tenant configuration and conversely single tenant to multi tenant.

The SLA MRS can distinguish customer connections one from another even in cases when there are multiple customer records mapping to a single IP address. For example this can occur for cases where one side of the connection is a common UNI port or Special Customer POP i.e. a multi tenant sub case. The SLA MRS can also distinguish customer connections one from another when there are multiple customer records mapping to a single IP address. For example this can happen in cases where both sides of the connection are a common UNI port or Special Customer POP i.e. the multi tenant sub case.

In a particular embodiment the SLA MRS can calculate and display customer and port level network availability information. Network availability can be calculated as described below. The amount of time that the OPT E MAN network is available to service customer data can be divided by the amount of time in the measurement period. Outage time Rebate Duration of closed customer initiated trouble reports according to WFA C counts against uptime as defined herein. WFA trouble tickets opened by the ENOC in response to customer reported network outages can be subtracted from the uptime amount before dividing by the time interval. These trouble tickets must be closed tickets only and must be generated by an authorized WFA C repair center.

The SLA MRS can calculate network availability using the formula shown in Table 1 below. A particular data element is the Rebate Duration r . Rebate Duration can be defined as the outage time during the period being considered. In the example shown in Table 1 a customer having p ports had outages totaling m minutes.

Monthly network availability for a customer port can be calculated using the formula t r 1440 where t is the number of days in the month times twenty four 24 hours times sixty 60 minutes and r is the time value shown in a WFA C screen OSSTR Field Rebate Duration for the trouble report. If scrubbing by WFA is required then the final Rebate Duration will be available only after the closed trouble report has been scrubbed. If scrubbing is not required then the Rebate Duration will be available after the trouble report has been closed. Calculations can include ports that have been active for the entire month. Any port that is not active for the entire month can be ignored.

For example assume customer A has 5 ports at the beginning of August 2005 Port1 Port2 Port3 Port4 and Port5 . During the month of August the customer moved two branches from one metro area to another. This resulted in deactivating Port3 and Port4 and activating new ports in the new locations Port6 and Port7 . For simplicity assume that both the activation and deactivation happened on the 20th of August. This customer happened to have some outages during August as follows 

Based on the above information the following represent rebate durations received from the repair data module 

In a particular embodiment the SLR MRS can extract scrubbed trouble tickets. The scrubbed trouble tickets can be automatically sent to the repair data module and extracted from the repair data module . When a trouble ticket is scrubbed the SLR MRS can reapply the outage to the date on which the customer reports the problem. This information can be reported to the SLA MRS in a nightly feed by the repair data module . The SLA MRS can also tag circuit inventory data pertaining to multipoint customer configuration for correlation with downstream applications.

In a particular embodiment the SLR MRS can present a monitoring view of trouble tickets as a graph via the SLA GUI . The abscissa can represent time and the ordinate can represent the number of trouble tickets closed. Time can be given per day month to date per month by Port circuit ID etc. The SLR MRS can also present a monitoring view of rebate duration as a line graph via the SLA GUI . The abscissa can represent time and the ordinate can represent sum of individual rebate durations for all closed trouble tickets by customer for a particular time period.

The SLA MRS can accept the data shown in Table 2 from the repair data module . This data can be delivery via a direct ODBC JDBC database call from the SLA MRS during a daily time frame.

The SLA MRS can include the data fields shown in Table 3 in order to correlate data from the inventory management module to probe data.

The SLA MRS can include the data fields shown in Table 4 in order to correlate data from the inventory management module to probe data. This data can be received from one or more PEs.

In a particular embodiment the SLR MRS can produce a daily report e.g. a Trouble Activity Report which can contain a list of closed trouble tickets generated in response to customer claims of SLA violation. The SLR MRS can also produce a daily trouble ticket report that includes all trouble tickets closed or modified for that day. The SLR MRS can aggregate data from one or more PEs to calculate month to date reports. The SLR MRS can also aggregate data from monthly reports to calculate year to date reports. Plotting and reporting for PDR latency and jitter can be given based on time e.g. month month to date year to date etc. customer class of service VPLS circuit ID EVC circuit ID location metro area switch device CLLI or a combination thereof. The SLA MRS can produce an All Connection Monthly Report having the content listed in Table 5.

The SLA MRS can produce an on demand monthly report that can correlate a current snapshot of inventory information to uncorrelated probe information. The SLA MRS can also produce a monthly performance report e.g. in a CSV format which can be re run after the system repairs inventory data found to be in error after the fact. The SLA MRS can produce an SLA report on network availability results from the previous month during a current month. Further the SLA MRS can produce month to date Network Availability results from the current month on demand. The SLA MRS can also provide a daily report of all trouble tickets received from the repair data module indicating any trouble tickets which cannot be correlated to inventory data. Additionally the SLA MRS can provide reports of network availability as a tabular view listing availability by percentage and downtime in minutes. These reports can include the following information customer information e.g. physical address and CLLI code port circuit ID WFA trouble tickets associated with the circuit and rebate duration i.e. total time circuit was unavailable after validation or scrubbing was performed. Further these reports can be expressed in both minutes of downtime and percentage availability. Outage can be presented in three increments e.g. daily customer port circuit ID and trouble ticket number monthly Customer Port Circuit ID and monthly Network availability by metro customer . The reports can be expressed on two separate screens e.g. one screen for minutes of downtime and one screen for percentage availability. The SLA MRS can also provide a CSV report daily via FTP that includes the information in the Table 3 and Table 4.

Referring to a first embodiment of a network system is shown and is designated . As shown the network system can include a first core switch connected to a second core switch . A first edge switch can be connected to the first core switch . Further a second edge switch can be connected to the second core switch . The second edge switch can also be connected to the first edge switch .

In a particular embodiment as shown in the network system can include a bidirectional segment probe that can originate at the first core switch the second core switch or a combination thereof. The bidirectional segment probe can measure a packet delivery rate PDR from the first core switch to the second core switch and from the second core switch to the first core switch .

As illustrated in the network system can include a first unidirectional segment probe between the first core switch and the first edge switch . The first unidirectional segment probe can originate at the first core switch . The first unidirectional segment probe can measure the PDR from the first core switch to the first edge switch .

The network system can also include a second unidirectional segment probe between the second core switch and the second edge switch . The second unidirectional segment probe can originate at the second core switch . The second unidirectional segment probe can measure the PDR from the second core switch to the second edge switch .

The network system can include a first unidirectional segment probe between the core switch and the first edge switch . The first unidirectional segment probe can originate at the core switch . The first unidirectional segment probe can measure the PDR from the core switch to the first edge switch .

The network system can also include a second unidirectional segment probe between the core switch and the second edge switch . The second unidirectional segment probe can originate at the core switch . The second unidirectional segment probe can measure the PDR from the core switch to the second edge switch .

As shown in the network system can also include an end to end probe between the first edge switch and the second edge switch . In a particular embodiment the end to end probe can be a bidirectional probe. Additionally the end to end probe can be used to measure latency and jitter through the entire system e.g. from the first edge switch to the second edge switch through the core switch and from the second edge switch to the first edge switch through the core switch .

Referring to through a method of maintaining and repairing a network is shown and commences at block . At block an alarm is received via a service and business assurance module. At decision step it is determined whether the alarm is customer impacting. If not the method proceeds to block and the alarm is monitored and appropriate action can be taken as needed. The method can then end at state .

Returning to decision step if the alarm is customer impacting the method can proceed to bock and the alarm can be entered into a WFA C module to create a trouble ticket. At block the customer can be notified of the receipt of the alarm. Thereafter at block non customer impacting troubleshooting can be performed in order to isolate the trouble.

Proceeding to decision step it can be determined whether intrusive testing is required. If so the method can move to and the customer can be contacted in order to obtain an appointment to perform testing. Thereafter the method moves to block . Returning to decision step if intrusive testing is not required the method also moves to block . At block it is determined if the trouble is inside the customer location outside the customer location or both. The method can then move to block and a field technician can be dispatched via WFA dispatch outside DO or WFA dispatch inside DI as needed. Thereafter the method moves to block of .

At block field activity can be coordinated. Then at bock an attempt can be made in order to resolve the trouble and clear the alarm. Moving to decision step it can be determined whether the trouble is resolved and the alarm cleared. If not the method moves to block and support can be escalated until the trouble is resolved. Thereafter the method returns to decision step .

At decision step if the trouble is resolved and the alarm is cleared the method can continue to block and the trouble ticket can be closed in WFA DI or WFA DO as needed. The method can then move to block and the customer is notified that the alarm is cleared. At block the trouble ticket is closed in WFA C. The method can then end at state .

Moving to block non customer troubleshooting can be performed in order to isolate the trouble. At decision step it can be determined whether intrusive testing is required. If so the method moves to block and the customer can be contacted to obtain an appointment to perform testing. The method can then proceed to block . Returning to decision step if intrusive testing is not required the method also moves to block . At block a trouble ticket can be obtained via a WFA C module. Then at block A and Z locations can be validated. At block the routers associated with the A and Z locations can be pinged. Further at block the interfaces associated with these locations can be verified.

Continuing to decision step it can be determined whether dispatch is needed. If so the method can proceed to block and a field technician can be dispatched via WFA DO or WFA DI as needed. The method can then proceed to block of and continue as described herein.

Returning to decision step if dispatch is not needed the method can move to block . At block the trouble can be resolved. Then at block the customer can be notified of the resolution. At block the trouble ticket can be closed in WFA C. The method can then end at state .

Referring now to a method of determining SLA credits is shown and commences at block . At block a report is received from a customer that a network availability PDR jitter or latency SLA has been missed. In a particular embodiment the report is received at an account manager AM or an account team AT . At block ENOC is notified of the customer s report of the missed SLA via email. The AT AM can send customer information e.g. customer name circuit ID missed SLA estimated time frame of miss etc. to the ENOC.

Moving to decision step it is determined whether the missed SLA is a network availability SLA. If not the method proceeds to block and the customer is notified that the SLA will be monitored for thirty 30 days. Thereafter at block one or more SLA metrics are monitored for thirty 30 days. Further at block the SLA is monitored for thirty 30 days.

Proceeding to decision step it is determined whether the SLA problem is corrected. If so the method moves to block and the AT AM is notified that the SLA problem has been corrected or that the SLA was not missed. The ENOC can provide customer reports that validate that the SLA has been corrected or that the SLA was not missed. Thereafter at block the customer is notified by the AT AM that the SLA problem has been corrected or has not been missed. The method can then end at state .

Returning to decision step if the SLA problem is not corrected the method proceeds to block and the AT AM is notified that the SLA is a problem. The method can then move to block and the customer can be notified that the SLA was missed and a service credit of a percentage of MRCs for all affected ports will be credited in the next bill. Then at block the amount of the credit is calculated and the appropriate billing center is contacted to issue the credit and have the credit adjustment applied to the customer s next bill. The method then returns to block and continues as described herein.

From block the method can also proceed to decision step and ENOC determines whether capacity relief is required to restore the SLA. If so the method moves to block and the ENOC can request capacity relief to relieve the SLA bottleneck. The method can then end at state .

Returning decision step if the missed SLA is a network availability SLA the method moves to block . At block the ENOC determines if the network availability SLA was missed based on the reports generated by an SLR MRS. Then at block it is determined whether the SLA was missed. If so the method can move to block and continue as described herein. If not the method can proceed to block and continue as described herein.

Referring now to through an embodiment of a SLA GUI is shown. In a particular embodiment the SLA GUI can be accessed via a computer e.g. by a technician at the ENOC. The SLA GUI is part of a SLA MRS application that can be used to test and verify the northbound interfaces NBI of an element management system EMS e.g. the system described above. The SLA MRS application contains the logic to access and execute a particular EMS NBI. Further the SLA MRS application has the ability to integrate one or more stand alone EMSs. This integration can be as simple as incorporating an EMS into the overall graphical user interface of the software to the more complex integration of an individual EMS with other software supported EMSs. In a particular embodiment the SLA MRS application can support one or more tasks of the ENOC as they relate to the maintenance and provisioning of an OPT E MAN.

In a particular embodiment as described above the system can include group of independent systems which rely heavily on eXtensible Markup Languages XML for both a northbound application program interface API and GUI. OPT E MAN can rely on one or more PEs to collect performance data to be used for SLA and CNM applications. The PE software can be a UNIX based application which collects processes and stores performance data temporarily from various collection points. The PEs can utilize a service assurance agent SAA to measure end to end performance. A PE SAA collector can collect performance data measured by the SAA within an IOS device. The collectors can provide different types of measurements by simulating different types of protocols. SAA can be used to measure performance statistics between two 2 routers. OPT E MAN can use these SAA collectors to provide PDR latency and jitter statistics. A PE can also send normalized and formatted data to upper layer performance management applications.

OPT E MAN can deploy ISC for provisioning services. In addition to a GUI interface shown in through the ISC API provides operations support systems the capability to insert retrieve update and remove data from ISC servers using an eXtensible Markup Languages XML interface request response system. The API requests are executed using a combination of HTTP HTTPS and Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . The ISC server processes the XML requests and returns an XML response which is also an encoded SOAP message to indicate if the request is successful or to return data.

The SLA MRS application includes an SLA GUI shown in through that can provide a user friendly way of executing canned SOAP XML scripts. Using NBI testing logic the SLA MRS application is able to integrate separate EMS systems. By performing Snmpget the SLA MRS can also verify the existence name and connectivity of a device before being entered into a PE database. The SLA GUI can present an integrated view of separate EMS systems components. The SLA MRS application may not use a database. Conversely the SLA MRS application can fetch the configuration files from the target EMS systems. This has the dual benefit of always providing the User with the latest real time configurations and minimizes the complexity of the SLA MRS application.

An important task of the ENOC is to utilize the PE to deploy SAA agent probes to collect data for SLA and CNM. Although the PE provides a GUI for many of these functions it is heavily dependent on eXtensible Markup Languages XML to activate those functions. Editing of XML is both time consuming and error prone. In addition there are several inventory functions regarding assigning of network elements to collection groups which the PE does not provide. The SLA MRS application has the ability to perform these tasks through its integration capabilities and the SLA GUI.

Through the SLA GUI the SLA MRS application can allow a user to verify configurations ping devices auto assign devices in groups forecast servers etc. The SLA MRS application can be a Java Servlet which can use an HTTP interface to execute enoc.jsp and enocHdlr.jsp Java Server Pages JSP loaded on the PE server. A user can access the SLA MRS application and the SLA GUI using a standard Web Browser.

Activating the SLA MRS application presents the user with the main screen shown in . The main screen can include an EMS API s folder that provides access to the EMS functionality. As shown in selecting the EMS API s folder can display separate folders for each of the supported components e.g. a CNOTE a CNS PE and an ISC. The information displayed can be derived from one or more SOAP XML files. The main screen can also include a Log Files folder that when selected displays the XML formatted Log Files created by the SLA MRS application shown in .

Referring to if the CNOTE folder is selected a subfolder is presented. The subfolder can be labeled CNOTE. Selecting the subfolder can present the user with the GUI screen shown in . As shown in the GUI can include a home button . Selecting the home button can return the user to the main screen shown in . An informational middle frame can display all the core and edge devices that the CNOTE platform supports along with their IP Addresses. The type field can define the type of device METRO or CSME. The EXCEPTION type refers to those devices with IP Addresses defined in an XML File DeviceExceptions.xml or those that don t match the FilterRules.xml that define the type METRO CSME for a particular device. These exception devices could be Lab Test Devices or devices incorrectly entered into the CNOTE system. Those Exception devices can be logged in the SLA MRS application XML log files so that ENOC personnel can examine and correct any inconsistencies.

When the ping device button is selected the user is presented with the GUI screen shown in . shows that the GUI can include an insert into exception file button and a cancel button . If the insert into exception file button is selected the IP address of the selected device can be included in an exception file DeviceExceptions.xml. This can enable the user to add devices such as customer repeaters to the exception file so these devices do not appear in the list of devices to add each time the auto add is run.

Selecting auto assign devices at can execute a bulk add of all unassigned devices optimally spread across all active CNS PE platforms. An example of the results are shown in . As shown in the insert into exception feature can also be available when the auto assign devices screen is shown. Each checked device can be added to the exception file.

Referring to when the CNS PE folder is selected the user can be presented with individual CNS PE systems and a forecast servers file . Selecting a specific system can instruct the SLA MRS application to pull the XML formatted configuration from the CNS PE system and parse it results. Selecting the forecast servers file can calculate the number of CNS PE servers required to support the devices specified.

When the platform folder is selected the user is presented with specific platform functions shown in . These functions can include start collection stop collection view configuration and verify configuration . Start collection and stop collection can toggle the collection status of a particular CNS PE platform. View configuration can pull the current configuration from the CNS PE system and display it in a raw XML form as shown in . Verify configuration can include an integrated function between the CNOTE and the particular CNS PE system. It can compare the two systems and report on those devices that are configured in CNS PE but do not appear in CNOTE.

Selecting the collectors folder at can present the user with a list of all individual performance collectors on the CNS PE system. illustrates such a list of collectors . Selecting an individual collector can present the user with the configuration of the collector in a form shown in . As shown in each collector can include a collection schedule and the device type that the collector is controlling.

Returning briefly to when the groups folder is selected a list of collection groups can be presented to the user as shown in . Each group can include particular devices e.g. core or edge and particular services e.g. METRO or CSME. The SLA MRS application can use these names in conjunction with device type lookup logic to correctly assign a device to a corresponding group on a CNS PE platform. Moreover a count of devices in each group and a total count of devices for all groups in the CNS PE platform can be shown next to each group name.

Selecting a specific group at can display all the devices in that group as shown in . If an individual device is selected the user can be presented with the GUI screen shown in . As shown in the GUI can further include a ping device button a remove device button and a cancel button . If the ping device button is selected the previously described Snmpget can be performed. If the remove device button is selected the selected device can be removed from the group and out of the statistics collection associated with the group.

Returning to when add new device is selected the user can be presented with a form to add a new device to a selected group shown in . The add new device screen can include a group name drop down menu a device name input window an IP address input window a read community input window a timeout input window and a retry input window . An add device button and a cancel button can also be included. Adding a device to a group can be performed as previously described.

Returning to when forecast servers is selected the user can be presented with the screen shown in . An initial execution can return calculations based on default values for factors weighted maximum devices per server and the current number of devices supported by the active CNS PE servers. Changing any of the parameters and selecting a Re Submit for Calculation button can recalculate the servers required based on these new values. Weighted maximum devices per server is a derived value determined by the mix of device types as some devices METRO Core take more system resources than others. This can allow forecasters to predict a number of CNS PE servers needed to handle device growth.

Returning to selecting the ISC folder presents the user with the GUI screen shown in . The user can select canned SOAP XML files created to interface with a solution center system.

In a particular embodiment the SLA MRS application can include a plurality of supporting files that can be used to provide the above described capabilities. A file such as EmsApi.xml can provide the SLA MRS application with the information necessary to interface with an individual EMS. Each EMS is defined within the tags as shown in the below XML snippet. A tag provides the folder name within a directory for information files that are unique for this EMS. A tag contains the specific EMS type i.e. CNS PE. A tag defines the EMS s of this type. Included within this tag is unique information to access this specific EMS system.

A tag has the system name of this EMS. A tag can provide the file name which is used to access a specific EMS. That can include a keystore file an XML file or any other file which the SLA MRS application invokes to gain access to the EMS. A and tag may be required to gain access to the EMS s NBI. A tag is used to access the EMS and a tag defines whether this EMS is currently active and thus accessible active full active but not accepting new devices or inactive and not accessible. The SLA MRS application can use this file to define access to the appropriate systems but also to define the folders described herein. Any other supporting files unique to a particular EMS can be contained in sub folders named for the EMS i.e. ISC.

A DeviceExceptions.xml XML SOAP file shown below lists all IP Addresses that are not to be included into the CNS PE collections.

A FilterRules.xml file shown below defines the type of device in relation to its IP Address. This file in conjunction with DeviceExceptions.xml determines IP Address Exceptions. It also determines the type of device which facilitates the selection of the group in CNS PE that this device should be included in for statistics collection.

A file entitled enoc.jsp shown below is a Java Server Page located in a directory on each CNS PE platform. The SLA MRS application can handle the http interaction between the SLA MRS application and the CNS Integration Bus which CNS PE uses to communicate with its database. The code snippet below from enoc.jsp demonstrates the interaction with the CNS bus to remove a device from the CNS PE Group. Parameters are passed using the standard http argument passing. The below example would have the type grpnm and devnm passed as parameters.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a general computer system is shown and is designated . The computer system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the FIGs. are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

