---

title: Compact 3-port orthogonally polarized MIMO antennas
abstract: Generalized non-limiting embodiments include employing a dipole antenna and/or a half slot antenna. Each of the antennas constitutes three mutually perpendicular radiating elements to achieve good isolation and low antenna signal correlation between the three ports. In one generalized non-limiting embodiment the antennas are fabricated on FR-4 epoxy boards. Experimental results show that the antennas resonate a reasonable frequency and have a desired mutual coupling. In addition experimental results for the diversity performance and the MIMO channel capacity are also provided for these antennas and these results show that the herein described antennas offer good diversity gain and the channel capacity can be increased by as much as three times by using these antennas over conventional antennas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07710343&OS=07710343&RS=07710343
owner: Hong Kong Technologies Group Limited
number: 07710343
owner_city: Apia
owner_country: WS
publication_date: 20071016
---
The subject disclosure relates generally to multiple input multiple output MIMO wireless communication systems. The subject disclosure is particularly related to MIMO wireless communication systems that use polarization diversity.

Multiple input multiple output MIMO technology is a technique that exploits multiple antennas to increase channel capacity without requiring additional spectrum or transmit power. With multiple antennas at the transmitter and receiver capacity gains can be achieved by utilizing spatial and polarization diversity. In practical applications due to the constraint of the spacing of the antenna elements polarization diversity is preferred since the antennas can be co located. At least one study has concluded that with three orthogonal components of the electric field and three of the magnetic field it is possible to obtain 6 independent channels at a single point. However there are few published MIMO antenna designs and even fewer exploiting tri polarization.

A MIMO wireless communication system is one that includes typically a plurality of antennas at a transmitter and one or more antennas at a receiver. The antennas are employed in a multi path rich environment such that due to the presence of various scattering objects buildings cars hills etc. in the environment each signal experiences multipath propagation. User data is transmitted from the transmit antennas using a space time coding STC transmission method as is known in the art. The receive antennas capture the transmitted signals and a signal processing technique is then applied as is known in the art to separate the transmitted signals and recover the user data.

MIMO wireless communication systems are advantageous in that they enable the capacity of the wireless link between the transmitter and receiver to be improved compared with previous systems because higher data rates can be obtained with MIMO. The multipath rich environment enables multiple orthogonal channels to be generated between the transmitter and receiver. Data for a single user can then be transmitted over the air in parallel over those channels simultaneously and using the same bandwidth. Consequently higher spectral efficiencies are achieved than with non MIMO systems.

One problem with existing MIMO systems concerns the large size of the transmit and receive antenna arrays. Typically MIMO transmit and receive antenna arrays have used spatially diverse antenna arrays. That is the spacing between the individual antenna elements is arranged to be large enough such that decorrelated spatial fading is obtained. This is desired in order to reduce a need for the number of orthogonal channels from being reduced. That is if the fading characteristics between antenna elements are similar correlated then the number of orthogonal channels that can be realized is reduced. For example for rooftop installations or antennas on towers separations of up to 20 wavelengths can be required to achieve decorrelated fading due to the low angle spread of the multipath propagation.

It is desirable to both provide more axes such as exploiting tri polarization with a three axis antenna and smaller size such as can be provided with a compact 3 port orthogonally polarized MIMO antenna.

The generalized non limiting embodiments described herein include two designs for a 3 port orthogonally polarized antenna. One generalized non limiting embodiment includes employing a dipole antenna. Another generalized non limiting embodiment includes employing a half slot antenna. Each of the antennas constitutes three mutually perpendicular radiating elements to achieve good isolation and low antenna signal correlation between the three ports. Experimental results show that the antennas resonate at a reasonable frequency and have a desired mutual coupling.

In one such exemplary non limiting embodiment a router can utilize one of the herein described antennas to implement MIMO type communications using three MIMO communication channels with one antenna for example where a first MIMO communication channel can be utilized on a first axis a second MIMO communication channel can be utilized on a second axis and a third MIMO communication channel can be utilized on a third axis. In another embodiment the router can utilize additional MIMO channels with two or more antennas at least some of which can be a cross polarized antenna or an orthogonal antenna such as a herein described antenna. In embodiments where multiple antennas antennae are utilized two MIMO channels can be utilized on for each corresponding one of the antennas although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. The sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to the various exemplary non limiting embodiments of the innovation in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that follows.

As discussed in the background the generalized non limiting embodiments described herein include two designs for a 3 port orthogonally polarized antenna. One generalized non limiting embodiment includes employing a dipole antenna. Another generalized non limiting embodiment includes employing a half slot antenna. Each of the antennas constitutes three mutually perpendicular radiating elements to achieve good isolation and low antenna signal correlation between the three ports. In one generalized non limiting embodiment the antennas are fabricated on FR 4 epoxy boards. FR 4 is an abbreviation for Flame Resistant 4 and is a type of material used for making a printed circuit board PCB . Typically an FR 4 is a composite of a resin epoxy reinforced with a woven fiberglass mat. FR 4 is a material from the class of epoxy resin bonded glass fabric ERBGF1 . FR 4 meets the requirements of Underwriters Laboratories UL94 V0. The FR 4 used in PCBs is typically UV stabilized with a tetrafunctional resin system. It is typically a yellowish color. FR 4 manufactured strictly as an insulator without copper cladding is typically a difunctional resin system and a greenish color.

Experimental results show that the antennas resonate at 2.55 GHz frequency and have a mutual coupling of less than about 18 dB between elements. In addition experimental results for the diversity performance and the MIMO channel capacity are also provided for these antennas and these results show that the herein described antennas offer good diversity gain and the channel capacity can be increased by as much as three times by using these antennas over traditional antennas.

As shown in an antenna includes a first board such as a FR 4 board A as illustrated in and a second board such as a FR 4 board B as illustrated in . A port a port and a port are provided to communicate as described below. Antenna can couple with a router to provide antenna functionality to the router for example where the router is a wireless router . Antenna can include a first lead and a second lead to couple to a radio frequency RF transceiver and or to a radio frequency RF transceiver . RF transceiver and or RF transceiver can couple to a processor which in one or more embodiments can operate as a baseband processor to process baseband signals for example. Processor in one or more embodiments can operate as a broadband processor to process broadband signals. Processor can couple to memory that can store one or more instructions and or programs and or data that can be utilized by processor . Processor can couple to a network interface to couple router to a network .

Alternatively router wirelessly couples to network . In one embodiment network can include the internet or similar type of distributed network and or alternatively network can be any type of various network such as a local area network LAN wide area network WAN metropolitan area network MAN and or the like. In one or more embodiments network can comprise at least in part a wired network and or at least in part a wireless network. In one or more embodiments network can comprise a cellular telephone network and or a public switched telephone network PSTN and or a plain old telephone service POTS . However these are merely examples of networks and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

In one or more embodiments router can be capable of utilizing antenna to communicate using one or more wireless transmission standards. For example at least one of RF transceiver and or wireless transceiver and or a third RF transceiver can be part of router which can be arranged to communicate using a wireless local area network transmission standard such as in accordance with an IEEE 802.11a standard an IEEE 802.11b standard an IEEE 802.11g standard and or an IEEE 802.11n standard. In one embodiment router can transmit and or receive signals via antenna in accordance with one such standard by transmitting and or receiving simultaneously on all of first port second axis or port and third port for example to provide an omnidirectional radiation pattern or at least a nearly omnidirectional radiation pattern for signals transmitted and or received using such a standard. In another embodiment router can transmit and or receive signals via antenna in accordance with one such standard by transmitting and or receiving simultaneously on all of first port second axis or port and third port for example to provide an orthogonal transmission or reception.

In another embodiment router can transmit and or receive signals with antenna by utilizing RF transceiver to communicate using a first communication standard for example IEEE Standard 802.11a to transmit and or receive along first axis and can transmit and or receive signals with antenna by utilizing RF transceiver to communicate using a second communication standard for example IEEE Standard 802.11g where such communication using two standards can occur simultaneously. For example where router can communicate with a first remote device using IEEE Standard 802.11a and can communicate with a second remote device using IEEE Standard 802.11g although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Additionally this can be extended to all three ports and simultaneously.

It should be noted that certain generalized non limiting exemplary embodiments can be used in a variety of applications. Although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect the circuits disclosed herein can be used in many apparatuses such as in the transmitters and or receivers of a radio system. Radio systems intended to be included within the scope of the claimed subject matter can include by way of example but not by way of limitation wireless personal area networks WPAN such as a network in compliance with the WiMedia Alliance a wireless local area networks WLAN devices and or wireless wide area network WWAN devices including wireless network interface devices and or network interface cards NICs base stations access points APs gateways bridges hubs cellular radiotelephone communication systems satellite communication systems two way radio communication systems one way pagers two way pagers personal communication systems PCS personal computers PCs personal digital assistants PDAs and or the like although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Types of wireless communication systems intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter can include although are not limited to Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems North American Digital Cellular NADC cellular radiotelephone systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA cellular radiotelephone systems third generation 3G systems like Wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 and or the like although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments the router can operate using multiple input multiple output MIMO type communication. In one particular embodiment the router can operate in accordance with an IEEE 802.11n standard. In a MIMO type embodiment the router can utilize one of antenna for MIMO type and or smart antenna type communication for example where RF transceiver and RF transceiver are arranged to operate in a MIMO type mode. In one particular embodiment router can be a MIMO Wireless Router although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one such exemplary generalized non limiting embodiment router can utilize one of antenna to implement MIMO type communications using three MIMO communication channels with antenna for example where a first MIMO communication channel can be utilized on first axis a second MIMO communication channel can be utilized on second axis and a third MIMO communication channel can be utilized on third axis . In another embodiment router can utilize additional MIMO channels with two or more antennas at least some of which can be a cross polarized antenna or an orthogonal antenna such as antenna .

In embodiments where multiple antennas such as antenna are utilized two MIMO channels can be utilized on for each corresponding one of antenna although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In an alternative embodiment router can implement a spatial division multiple access SDMA system smart antenna system and or a multiple input multiple output MIMO system although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Router can couple with network so that a remote device can communicate with network including devices coupled to network by communicating with the router via a wireless communication link and antenna . Network can include a public network such as a telephone network and or the internet and or alternatively network can include a private network such as an intranet and or a combination of a public and or a private network although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Processor can operate to provide baseband and or media access control MAC processing functions. Processor can comprise a single processor and or alternatively can comprise a baseband processor and or an applications processor although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Processor can couple to memory which can comprise volatile memory such as DRAM non volatile memory such as flash memory and or alternatively can include other types of storage such as a hard disk drive although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Some portion or all of memory can be included on the same integrated circuit as processor and or alternatively some portion and or all of memory can be disposed on an integrated circuit and or other medium for example a hard disk drive that is external to the integrated circuit of processor although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Communication between the router to a remote device can be implemented via a wireless personal area networks WPAN such as in compliance with the WiMedia Alliance a wireless local area network WLAN for example a network compliant with a an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard such as IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16 HiperLAN II HiperMAN Ultra Wideband UWB and so on although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In another embodiment communication between router and a remote device can be at least partially implemented via a cellular communication network compliant with a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP or 3G standard a Wideband CDMA WCDMA standard and or other types of cellular networks although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Note that the different guided wavelengths and are in one exemplary embodiment 21.5 mm for port while the length of the guided wavelength for port is 23.1 mm. Of course one of skill in the art should realize that these lengths can be adjusted. The overall length of the dipole is 0.37 in one exemplary generalized non limiting embodiment. The CPW to CPS transition is chosen to act as a balun because of its uniplanar structure. It is also bent by 90 degrees at the CPS side such that the three dipoles can be integrated together orthogonally to form a tri polarized antenna as illustrated in . It is worth mentioning that the bend is chamfered to avoid high current density concentrating at the bending discontinuity . The chamfer can be from 35 degrees to 70 degrees but in one exemplary generalized non limiting embodiments the chamfer is about 45 degrees.

To achieve the same resonance frequency at 2.5 GHz for the three dipoles the lengths of dipole and dipole are tuned to 21.5 mm and 23.1 mm respectively in one exemplary generalized non limiting embodiment. It should be noted that dipole is offset from the intersecting point of dipole and dipole so that a slot can be cut at for assembling antenna as shown in . Slot is 3.2 mm wide in one exemplary generalized non limiting embodiment. In other exemplary generalized non limiting embodiments slot can be between 2 mm and 4.4 mm. Alternatively in still other exemplary generalized non limiting embodiments slot can be between 1.3 mm and 5.1 mm. In addition to obtain better mutual coupling among the elements dipole is made to be the mirror image of dipole and dipole such that the dipoles and are orthogonal.

As shown in the antenna includes a port a port and a port that are provided to communicate as described below. Antenna includes a coaxial feed point in which a coaxial or other type of cable can be attached in order to transmit or receive from or to a communication framework . For example antenna can couple with a LAN or WAN along with a plurality of remote computers having associated memory storage . The exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the innovation includes a computer processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a generalized non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer processor further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject innovation.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the innovation.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM. It is appreciated that the innovation can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as the remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to the local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the orthogonal antenna .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

In one or more embodiments communication framework can operate using multiple input multiple output MIMO type communication. In one particular embodiment communication framework can operate in accordance with an IEEE 802.11n standard. In a MIMO type embodiment communication framework can utilize one of antenna for MIMO type and or smart antenna type communication for example where several RF transceivers are arranged to operate in a MIMO type mode. In one particular embodiment communication framework can utilize one of antenna to implement MIMO type communications using three MIMO communication channels with antenna for example where a first MIMO communication channel can be utilized on port a second MIMO communication channel can be utilized on port and a third MIMO communication channel can be utilized on a port .

In another embodiment communication framework can utilize additional MIMO channels with two or more antennas at least some of which can be a cross polarized antenna or an orthogonal antenna such as antenna . In embodiments where multiple antennas such as antenna are utilized two MIMO channels can be utilized on for each corresponding one of antenna although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In an alternative embodiment communication framework can implement a spatial division multiple access SDMA system smart antenna system and or a multiple input multiple output MIMO system although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Processor can operate to provide baseband and or media access control MAC processing functions. Processor can comprise a single processor and or alternatively can comprise a baseband processor and or an applications processor although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Processor can couple to memory which can comprise volatile memory such as DRAM non volatile memory such as flash memory and or alternatively can include other types of storage such as a hard disk drive although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Some portion or all of memory can be included on the same integrated circuit as processor and or alternatively some portion and or all of memory can be disposed on an integrated circuit and or other medium for example a hard disk drive that is external to the integrated circuit of processor or the computer although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. An optical disk drive in communication to the bus via an interface is provided in one embodiment to provide additional storage over other storage already provided.

The measured S parameters of the antenna of are shown in in a graph where in Sare as defined above with reference to . As seen from the figure the worst case mutual coupling at 2.58 GHz is 21 dB at . It can be observed that the return losses S S and S of the three half slots are similar to each other since the antennas are symmetric about the center point. illustrates the difference between no scratching off of the material and the scratching off of material on the S parameters.

The measured radiation patterns along the xy plane of the antenna of are shown in on graph . It is observed that the far field patterns are irregular at irregular areas and do not resemble that of a full slot antenna. This is because there is a sharp discontinuity for the current path at the end of the half slot. However as the half slot antenna has linearly polarized fields and three half slot antennas are located along the x y and z axes respectively the antenna of can therefore radiate and receive signals along three orthogonal planes. The gain and efficiency of the port are measured and are found to be 4.8 dB and 80 respectively.

A system would have an ideal diversity performance if the signal correlation coefficients are zero and the mean received signal to noise ratios are equal. In case of practical system using maximum ratio combining at the receiver a condition for good diversity action is 

where is the upper bound of the signal correlation coefficient between antenna i and antenna j and are the radiation efficiencies of antenna i and antenna j respectively. From the above expression the maximum values of the signal correlation coefficients of the proposed antennas are computed using the measured data and the results are summarized in Table I below. As seen from the table the upper bounds of the correlation coefficients of the proposed antennas do not exceed the criteria given. Hence it can be concluded that both of the herein described antennas have excellent diversity performance.

To determine the capacity gain of the herein described exemplary non limiting tri port antennas an experimental measurement was performed of the MIMO channel capacity using a 4 4 MIMO antenna test bed. The test bed provides one with frequency flat MIMO channel estimates with an accuracy of approximately 2 at 2.55 GHz. The flat fading MIMO capacity can then be determined from these estimates.

In the measurement setup a linear arrangement of four dipoles with element separation of half wavelength is placed at the transmitter side while the Antenna Under Test AUT is placed at the receiver and the 3 3 MIMO channel estimates are extracted. The measurements were performed in a laboratory which resembles a rich scattering environment the channel statistics are approximately Rayleigh distributed with no line of sight transmission path. is a graph of the capacity estimates. From the results it can be observed that the herein described exemplary generalized non limiting tri port antennas provide channel capacities close to the theoretical 3 3 MIMO capacity as the three plots are all clustered together generally at . This demonstrates that that the herein described exemplary generalized non limiting tri port antennas can be used in a MIMO wireless communication system. One reason for the capacity loss is due to the mutual coupling between elements.

Herein described are designs for three port antennas including three mutually perpendicular radiating elements using dipole and half slot antennas. Because of the perpendicular configuration the mutual coupling between the antenna elements in the herein described antennas is less than 18 dB. By exploiting polarization diversity the herein described antennas can transmit information through three independent channels. Measurement results demonstrate that the herein described antennas possess good diversity gain and the MIMO channel capacity is close to that as predicted by theory.

Device can be virtually any electronic device where data can be stored. Examples of such electronic devices can include a computer a cellular phone a digital phone a video device e.g. video playing and or recording device a smart card a personal digital assistant PDA a television an electronic game e.g. video game a digital camera stand alone or integrated with a cellular phone an electronic organizer an audio player and or recorder an electronic device associated with digital rights management Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA cards trusted platform modules TPMs Hardware Security Modules HSMs set top boxes secure portable tokens Universal Serial Bus USB tokens key tokens secure memory devices with computational capabilities devices with tamper resistant chips and the like.

Because at least a portion of the communication between the device and the tri port antenna is wireless a security layer is provided in one exemplary generalized non limiting embodiment. The security layer can be used to cryptographically protect e.g. encrypt data as well as to digitally sign data to enhance security and unwanted unintentional or malicious disclosure. In operation the security component or layer can communicate data to from both the antenna and the retrieval component device .

An encryption component can be used to cryptographically protect data during transmission as well as while stored. The encryption component employs an encryption algorithm to encode data for security purposes. The algorithm is essentially a formula that is used to turn data into a secret code. Each algorithm uses a string of bits known as a key to perform the calculations. The larger the key e.g. the more bits in the key the greater the number of potential patterns can be created thus making it harder to break the code and descramble the contents of the data.

Most encryption algorithms use the block cipher method which code fixed blocks of input that are typically from 64 to 128 bits in length. A decryption component can be used to convert encrypted data back to its original form. In one aspect a public key can be used to encrypt data upon transmission to a storage device. Upon retrieval the data can be decrypted using a private key that corresponds to the public key used to encrypt.

A signature component can be used to digitally sign data and documents when transmitting and or retrieving from the device . It is to be understood that a digital signature or certificate guarantees that a file has not been altered similar to if it were carried in an electronically sealed envelope. The signature is an encrypted digest e.g. one way hash function used to confirm authenticity of data. Upon accessing the data the recipient can decrypt the digest and also re compute the digest from the received file or data. If the digests match the file is proven to be intact and tamper free. In operation digital certificates issued by a certification authority are most often used to ensure authenticity of a digital signature.

Still further the security layer can employ contextual awareness e.g. context awareness component to enhance security. For example the contextual awareness component can be employed to monitor and detect criteria associated with data transmitted to and requested from the device . In operation these contextual factors can be used to filter spam control retrieval e.g. access to highly sensitive data from a public network or the like. It will be understood that in aspects the contextual awareness component can employ logic that regulates transmission and or retrieval of data in accordance with external criteria and factors. The contextual awareness employment can be used in connection with an artificial intelligence AI layer .

The AI layer or component can be employed to facilitate inferring and or determining when where how to dynamically vary the level of security. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event s and data source s .

The AI component can also employ any of a variety of suitable AI based schemes in connection with facilitating various aspects of the herein described innovation. Classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. The AI layer can be used in conjunction with the security layer to infer changes in the data being transferred and make recommendations to the security layer as to what level of security to apply.

For example a support vector machine SVM classifier can be employed. Other classification approaches include Bayesian networks decision trees and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

Additionally a sensor can be employed in conjunction with the security layer . Still further human authentication factors can be used to enhance security employing sensor . For instance biometrics e.g. fingerprints retinal patterns facial recognition DNA sequences handwriting analysis voice recognition can be employed to enhance authentication to control access of the storage vault. It will be understood that embodiments can employ multiple factor tests in authenticating identity of a user.

The sensor can also be used to provide the security layer with generalized non human metric data such as electromagnetic field condition data or predicted weather data etc. For example any conceivable condition can be sensed for and security levels can be adjusted or determined in response to the sensed condition.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the innovation can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the present innovation pertains to any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes which can be used in connection with optimization algorithms and processes performed in accordance with the present innovation. The present innovation can apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage. The present innovation can also be applied to standalone computing devices having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities for generating receiving and transmitting information in connection with remote or local services and processes.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices can have applications objects or resources that can implicate the optimization algorithms and processes of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment.

It can also be appreciated that an object such as can be hosted on another computing device etc. or etc. Thus although the physical environment depicted can show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment can alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. any of which can employ a variety of wired and wireless services software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many of the networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any of the infrastructures can be used for exemplary communications made incident to optimization algorithms and processes according to the present innovation.

In home networking environments there are at least four disparate network transport media that can each support a unique protocol such as Power line data both wireless and wired voice e.g. telephone and entertainment media. Most home control devices such as light switches and appliances can use power lines for connectivity. Data Services can enter the home as broadband e.g. either DSL or Cable modem and are accessible within the home using either wireless e.g. HomeRF or 802.11A B G or wired e.g. Home PNA Cat 5 Ethernet even power line connectivity. Voice traffic can enter the home either as wired e.g. Cat 3 or wireless e.g. cell phones and can be distributed within the home using Cat 3 wiring. Entertainment media or other graphical data can enter the home either through satellite or cable and is typically distributed in the home using coaxial cable. IEEE 1394 and DVI are also digital interconnects for clusters of media devices. All of these network environments and others that can emerge or already have emerged as protocol standards can be interconnected to form a network such as an intranet that can be connected to the outside world by way of a wide area network such as the Internet. In short a variety of disparate sources exist for the storage and transmission of data and consequently any of the computing devices of the present innovation can share and communicate data in any existing manner and no one way described in the embodiments herein is intended to be limiting.

The Internet commonly refers to the collection of networks and gateways that utilize the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols which are well known in the art of computer networking. The Internet can be described as a system of geographically distributed remote computer networks interconnected by computers executing networking protocols that allow users to interact and share information over network s . Because of such wide spread information sharing remote networks such as the Internet have thus far generally evolved into an open system with which developers can design software applications for performing specialized operations or services essentially without restriction.

Thus the network infrastructure enables a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as an example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. maintain the data that is then replicated to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can be processing data or requesting services or tasks that can implicate the optimization algorithms and processes in accordance with at least one generalized non limiting embodiment.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the optimization algorithms and processes of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment can be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s can be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

Thus illustrates an exemplary networked or distributed environment with server s in communication with client computer s via a network bus in which the present innovation can be employed. In more detail a number of servers etc. are interconnected via a communications network bus which can be a LAN WAN intranet GSM network the Internet etc. with a number of client or remote computing devices etc. such as a portable computer handheld computer thin client networked appliance or other device such as a VCR TV oven light heater and the like in accordance with the present innovation. It is thus contemplated that the present innovation can apply to any computing device in connection with which it is desirable to communicate data over a network.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. Servers etc. can also serve as clients etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned communications can be wired or wireless or a combination where appropriate. Client devices etc. can or cannot communicate via communications network bus and can have independent communications associated therewith. For example in the case of a TV or VCR there can or cannot be a networked aspect to the control thereof. Each client computer etc. and server computer etc. can be equipped with various application program modules or objects etc. and with connections or access to various types of storage elements or objects across which files or data streams can be stored or to which portion s of files or data streams can be downloaded transmitted or migrated. Any one or more of computers etc. can be responsible for the maintenance and updating of a database or other storage element such as a database or memory for storing data processed or saved according to at least one generalized non limiting embodiment. Thus the present innovation can be utilized in a computer network environment having client computers etc. that can access and interact with a computer network bus and server computers etc. that can interact with client computers etc. and other like devices and databases .

As mentioned the innovation applies to any device wherein it can be desirable to communicate data e.g. to a mobile device. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the present innovation i.e. anywhere that a device can communicate data or otherwise receive process or store data. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the present innovation can be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction. Thus the present innovation can be implemented in an environment of networked hosted services in which very little or minimal client resources are implicated e.g. a networked environment in which the client device serves merely as an interface to the network bus such as an object placed in an appliance.

Although not required at least one generalized non limiting embodiment can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the component s of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the innovation can be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing at least one generalized non limiting embodiment includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer can also include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. For example computer could include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through user input and associated interface s that are coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem can also be connected to the system bus . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which can in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which can be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via the user input interface of input or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in a remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

While the present innovation has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various Figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present innovation without deviating therefrom. For example one skilled in the art will recognize that the present innovation as described in the present application can apply to any environment whether wired or wireless and can be applied to any number of such devices connected via a communications network and interacting across the network. Therefore the present innovation should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

Various implementations of the innovation described herein can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Thus the methods and apparatus of the present innovation or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the innovation. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device.

Furthermore the disclosed subject matter can be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer or processor based device to implement aspects detailed herein. The terms article of manufacture computer program product or similar terms where used herein are intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick . Additionally it is known that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN .

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components e.g. according to a hierarchical arrangement. Additionally it should be noted that one or more components can be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the various flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below can include or consist of artificial intelligence or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

While the present innovation has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present innovation without deviating therefrom.

While exemplary embodiments refer to utilizing the present innovation in the context of particular programming language constructs specifications or standards the innovation is not so limited but rather can be implemented in any language to perform the optimization algorithms and processes. Still further the present innovation can be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage can similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present innovation should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

