---

title: Cigarette customization apparatus and associated method
abstract: An apparatus for customizing an as-formed cigarette is provided, wherein the as-formed cigarette has a cylindrical rod configuration defining a longitudinal axis, and includes a filter rod portion and a contiguous tobacco rod portion. Such an apparatus comprises a feeder unit configured to feed an as-formed cigarette, from a plurality of as-formed cigarettes, to a register position. An imprinting unit is configured to interact with the as-formed cigarette in the register position so as to imprint at least one of an alphanumeric character and a graphical character thereon. An associated method is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08171941&OS=08171941&RS=08171941
owner: R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 08171941
owner_city: Winston Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070226
---
Aspects of the present invention are directed to smoking articles such as cigarettes and more particularly to an apparatus and associated method for customizing as formed cigarettes.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 186 to Veluz PCT Publication No. WO 2006 064371 to Baneijea and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 226 932 filed Sep. 14 2005 to Coleman III et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper in order to provide a so called filtered cigarette. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter or mouth end of the cigarette.

Various attempts to alter the visual attributes of cigarettes have been proposed. For example there have been attempts to alter the color of the wrapping materials that provide the wrapping material of the tobacco rod e.g. cigarettes marketed under the trade name More by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company possess cigarette rod wrapping papers exhibiting a brown color and tipping materials used to attach the tobacco rod to the filter element e.g. tipping materials have been printed or otherwise formed so as to possess a cork appearance and or to possess at least one circumscribing ring . In addition there have been attempts to alter the general appearance of the filter elements of cigarettes. See for example the types of cigarette filter element formats configurations and designs set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 663 to Schultz U.S. Pat. No. 4 508 525 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 646 763 to Nichols U.S. Pat. No. 4 655 736 to Keith U.S. Pat. No. 4 726 385 to Chumney Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 377 630 filed Mar. 16 2006 to Crooks et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The sensory attributes of cigarette smoke can be enhanced by applying additives to tobacco and or by otherwise incorporating flavoring materials into various components of a cigarette. See Leffingwell et al. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . For example one type of tobacco flavoring additive is menthol. See Borschke 19 p. 47 70 1993. Various proposed methods for modifying the sensory attributes of cigarettes have involved suggestion that filter elements may be used as vehicles for adding flavor to the mainstream smoke of those cigarettes. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. proposes the placement of adsorbent and flavor releasing materials in a cigarette filter. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0020420 to Xue et al. proposes the placement of fibers containing small particle size adsorbents absorbents in the filter. U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. propose manners and methods for the placement of a flavor containing pellet in each cigarette filter. Other representative types of cigarette filters incorporating flavoring agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 972 335 to Tiggelbeck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 082 098 to Owens Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 643 205 to Redding et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 677 995 to Kallianos et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 715 390 to Nichols et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 729 391 to Woods et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 768 526 to Pryor U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. See also the types of cigarette filter technologies that are discussed in the background art section set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

In any instance it would be highly desirable to provide a smoker with the ability to enhance his her smoking experience such as can be accomplished by providing a filtered cigarette possessing a filter element end having particular design features. That is it would be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing filter end components that are employed in a manner such that the visual appearance of the cigarette is aesthetically pleasing and can be readily customized. It also would be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing selected design features that can be modified or otherwise controlled or customized in a selective manner. Thus there exists a need for a system and method for selectively customizing cigarettes. Such a solution should desirably involve minimal equipment should be relatively simple and cost effective should be portable if necessary and otherwise should not require extensive set up and testing procedures and should facilitate maintenance thereof with ready access to the cigarettes being processed thereby.

The above and other needs are met by aspects of the present invention which in one instance provides an apparatus for customizing an as formed wherein the as formed cigarette has a cylindrical rod configuration defining a longitudinal axis and includes a filter rod portion and a contiguous tobacco rod portion. Such an apparatus comprises a feeder unit configured to feed an as formed cigarette from a plurality of as formed cigarettes to a register position. An imprinting unit is configured to interact with the as formed cigarette in the register position so as to selectively imprint at least one of an alphanumeric character and a graphical character thereon.

Another aspect of the present invention is directed to a method of customizing an as formed cigarette wherein the as formed cigarette has a cylindrical rod configuration defining a longitudinal axis and includes a filter rod portion and a contiguous tobacco rod portion. Such a method comprises feeding an as formed cigarette from a plurality of as formed cigarettes to a register position using a feeder unit. At least one of an alphanumeric character and a graphical character is then selectively imprinted on the as formed cigarette in the register position using an imprinting unit.

Aspects of the present invention thus address the needs identified above and provide significant advantages as further discussed herein.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all aspects of the inventions are shown. Indeed these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Cigarette rods are manufactured using a cigarette making machine such as a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 781 203 to La Hue U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0145866 to Hartman 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and 2005 0076929 to Fitzgerald et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. For example descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction conveyor systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 291 713 to Frank U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The automated cigarette making machines of the type set forth herein provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths.

Various types of cigarette components including tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials blend packing densities and types of paper wrapping materials for tobacco rods can be employed. See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics that are set forth in Johnson Development of Cigarette Components to Meet Industry Needs 52T.S.R.C. September 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 839 to Jakob et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 159 944 to Arzonico et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 530 to Kraker U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005 0016556 to Ashcraft et al. and 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 375 700 filed Mar. 14 2006 to Thomas et al. and Ser. No. 11 408 625 filed Apr. 21 2006 to Oglesby each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most preferably the entire smokable rod is composed of smokable material e.g. tobacco cut filler and a layer of circumscribing outer wrapping material.

Components for filter elements for filtered cigarettes typically are provided from filter rods that are produced using traditional types of rod forming units such as those available as KDF 2 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. Typically filter material such as filter tow is provided using a tow processing unit. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 664 to Siems et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al. Other types of technologies for supplying filter materials to a filter rod forming unit are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker which are incorporated herein by reference.

The filter material can vary and can be any material of the type that can be employed for providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefins such as polypropylene or the like. One filter material that can provide a suitable filter rod is cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow in traditional amounts using known techniques. Other suitable materials or additives used in connection with the construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers.

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Suitable plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers ranging in porosity from about 1 100 CORESTA units to about 26 000 CORESTA units are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 70 M9 95 M9 150 M4 150 M9 240M9S 260 M4 and 260 M4T and from Miquel y Costas as 22HP90 and 22HP150. Non porous plug wrap materials typically exhibit porosities of less than about 40 CORESTA units and often less than about 20 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic as PW646 Wattenspapier of Austria as FY 33060 Miquel y Costas of Spain as 646 and Schweitzer Mauduit International as MR650 and 180. Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate nitrocellulose nitrocellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

Cigarette filter rods can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods then can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles dispersed within cellulose acetate tow e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod produced essentially of flavored plasticized cellulose acetate tow filter material at the other end. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that traditionally have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany. Representative types of filter designs and components including representative types of segmented cigarette filters are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 920 990 to Lawrence et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker U.S. Pat. No. 5 074 320 to Jones et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 838 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 909 to Gentry et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 718 250 to Banerjee et al U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. PCT Publication No. WO 03 009711 to Kim PCT Publication No. WO 03 047836 to Xue et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 226 932 filed Sep. 14 2005 to Coleman III et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

The length of the filter element of each cigarette can vary. Typically the overall length of a filter element is about 20 mm to about 40 mm and often about 25 mm to about 35 mm. For a typical dual segment filter element the downstream or mouth end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm and the upstream or tobacco rod end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm.

Filter elements or filter segment components of combination filters typically are provided from filter rods that are manufactured using traditional types of cigarette filter rod making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 850 301 to Greene Jr. et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0103355 to Holmes 2005 1094014 to Read Jr. and 2006 0169295 to Draghetti each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture. Manners and methods for applying adhesives to tipping materials during automated cigarette manufacture will be apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. For example a filtered cigarette can be tipped with a first layer of tipping material in an essentially traditional manner using a Lab MAX tipping device that is available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and that tipped cigarette can be collected and tipped again using that device e.g. using the device in an essentially traditional manner or in a suitably modified manner to provide a desired pattern of adhesive application in order to provide a filtered cigarette possessing two layers of tipping material.

The first layer of tipping material most preferably extends over the entire length of the filter element and about 2 mm to about 6 mm often about 3 mm to about 5 mm and frequently about 4 mm over the length of the adjacent region of the tobacco rod. The second layer of tipping material most preferably extends over the entire length of the filter element and about 2 mm to about 6 mm often about 3 mm to about 5 mm and frequently about 4 mm over the length of the adjacent region of the tobacco rod.

The tipping material that is used for any of the tipping material layers can vary. In certain preferred aspects the material used to construct both tipping material layers has the characteristics and qualities commonly associated with cigarette tipping materials known in the art. As such both layers can be constructed of the types of material conventionally used as tipping material in the manufacture of cigarettes. Typical tipping materials are papers exhibiting relatively high opacities. Representative tipping materials have TAPPI opacities of greater than about 81 percent often in the range of about 84 percent to about 90 percent and sometimes greater than about 90 percent. Typical tipping materials are printed with inks typically nitrocellulose based which can provide for a wide variety of appearances and lip release properties. Representative tipping papers materials have basis weights ranging from about 25 m mto about 60 g m often about 30 g mto about 40 g m. Representative tipping papers are available as Tervakoski Reference Nos. 3121 3124 TK 652 TK674 TK675 A360 and A362 and Schweitzer Mauduit International Reference Nos. GSR270 and GSR265M2. See also for example the types of tipping materials the methods for combining cigarette components using tipping materials and techniques for wrapping various portions of cigarettes using tipping materials that are set forth in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 377 630 filed Mar. 16 2006 to Crooks et al.

Adhesives used to secure tipping materials to each other or to other filtered cigarette components can vary. Typical exemplary adhesive formulations that are used for application of tipping material to other cigarette components in commercial filtered cigarette manufacturing operations are water based emulsions incorporating mixtures of ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers and polyvinylacetate. Representative adhesives that are useful for applying tipping materials to cigarette components are available as Reference Nos. 32 2049 and 32 2124 from National Starch Adhesives Corp. See also for example Skeist Handbook of Adhesives 2Edition 1977 Schneberger Adhesive in Manufacturing 1983 Gutcho Adhesives Technology Developments Since 1979 1983 Landrock Adhesives Technology Handbook 1985 and Flick Handbook of Adhesives Raw Materials 2Edition 1989 .

Pressure sensitive adhesives can be used to provide for adhesion of the outer tipping material to the remaining components of the cigarette e.g. particularly for manufacture handling packaging shipping storage and initial use of the cigarette as well as for providing the ability to readily release e.g. particularly so that the outer tipping can be readily removed from the cigarette when desired . That is suitable preferred pressure sensitive adhesives provide a satisfactory but temporary bond between the outer tipping material and the remaining components of the cigarette and that adhesive is such that the outer tipping material or a portion thereof can be peeled away and hence removed from the cigarette most preferably without leaving to any significant or readily noticeable degree any adhesive residue on the underlying cigarette components. In addition suitable preferred pressure sensitive adhesives though providing sufficient adhesion so that a double tipped cigarette can be used as desired without adhesive failure i.e. so as to avoid undesirable premature release of portions of the outer tipping from the cigarette is most preferably such that purposeful removal of the outer tipping material does not cause any significant or noticeable structural failure to the underlying cigarette components. That is most preferably after purposeful removal of the outer tipping material the resulting cigarette does not possess any significant visual or structural damage resulting from the presence and removal of that outer tipping material. If desired the outer surface of the underlying first tipping material optionally can be coated with a lacquer or other suitable coating material in order to provide a propensity for substantially all the pressure sensitive adhesive to be removed along with the outer tipping material. Representative pressure sensitive adhesives are commercially available from a wide variety of sources such as 3M Rohm Haas Company and Ashland Specialty Chemical Company. See also for example Satas Handbook of Pressure Sensitive Adhesive Technology 1982 and Satas Advances in Pressure Sensitive Adhesive Technology 2 1995 .

Cigarettes can be air diluted. Tipping materials can be pre perforated or air diluted on line using laser perforation techniques. For cigarettes that are air diluted or ventilated the amount or degree of air dilution or ventilation can vary. Frequently the amount of air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is greater than about 10 percent generally is greater than about 20 percent often is greater than about 30 percent and sometimes is greater than about 40 percent. Typically the upper level for air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is less than about 80 percent and often is less than about 70 percent. As used herein the term air dilution is the ratio expressed as a percentage of the volume of air drawn through the air dilution means to the total volume and air and smoke drawn through the cigarette and exiting the extreme mouth end portion of the cigarette. For certain preferred air diluted cigarettes the cigarettes are air diluted in such a manner that the cigarette exhibits substantially identical levels of air dilution when the second layer is present on the cigarette and when the second layer is removed from the cigarette e.g. by laser perforating relevant regions of a two up cigarette after that cigarette has the second layer of tipping material applied thereto . Examples of technologies for laser perforation of cigarettes may be found for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0103355 A1 to Holmes which is incorporated herein by reference. However such provisions may not provide any opportunity for customizing or personalizing the cigarette being formed.

As such illustrate an apparatus for customizing an as formed cigarette according to one aspect of the present invention the cigarette customization apparatus being generally indicated by the numeral . In one aspect the apparatus comprises a feeder unit configured to feed an as formed cigarette to a register position . An imprinting unit is configured to interact with the as formed cigarette in the register position so as to selectively imprint at least one of an alphanumeric character and a graphical character collectively indicated as element as shown for example in and otherwise referred to herein as character for brevity thereon. The feeder unit and or the imprinting unit may be controlled by a computer device as shown for example in though in some instances each of the feeder unit and the imprinting unit may be controlled by a separate computer device i.e. see feeder computer device in . As previously discussed the as formed cigarette has a cylindrical rod configuration defining a longitudinal axis and includes a filter rod portion and a contiguous tobacco rod portion .

As shown in the feeder unit is configured to feed an as formed cigarette to a register position . In some instances the feeder unit may be configured to select the as formed cigarette from a plurality of as formed cigarettes . The plurality of as formed cigarettes may be disposed for example in a hopper operably engaged with the feeder unit . The hopper may be configured as a receptacle portion of the feeder unit into which the plurality of as formed cigarettes may be manually or automatically fed. In another example the hopper may comprise a cigarette tray see e.g. configured to collect the plurality of as formed cigarettes from a separate cigarette making machine not shown . In such instances the feeder unit may include a receiver not shown configured to receive and interact with the cigarette tray in such a manner that the plurality of as formed cigarettes are released either in bulk or sequentially from the cigarette tray into the feeder device such that an individual as formed cigarette can be fed to the register position . One skilled in the art will appreciate however that the plurality of as formed cigarettes may be provided to the feeder device in many different manners either online or offline with respect to a cigarette making machine as required or otherwise desirable.

Since an as formed cigarette is often better suited to handling in a manner generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis thereof i.e. since the cigarette rod is often wrapped along the length thereof by at least one layer of wrapping paper and since the plurality of as formed cigarettes are often stacked side by side such that the longitudinal axes thereof are all substantially parallel to each other for example with respect to the plurality of as formed cigarettes aspects of a feeder device according to the present invention may be configured to initially separate an individual as formed cigarette from the plurality of as formed cigarettes in a direction substantially perpendicularly to the longitudinal axes thereof. Once an individual as formed cigarette is separated from the plurality of as formed cigarettes the individual as formed cigarette can then be fed by the feeder device to the register position in a suitable manner. For example as shown in the individual as formed cigarette may be fed longitudinally along the axis thereof to the register position by the feeder device . In another example as shown in the as formed cigarette once picked up by the feeder device may be transported to the register position without movement either along or angularly about the longitudinal axis thereof. Though such a feeder device may be configured in many different forms one example of such a feeder device is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 510 616 to Seymour et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

The hopper drum is operably engaged with the feeder device such as for instance beneath the hopper . The hopper drum can thus be indexed or rotated a predetermined amount i.e. angular movement of the hopper drum under control of for example the computer device . As a result the interaction between the hopper and the hopper drum causes an individual as formed cigarette to drop between each adjacent pair of fins such that as the drum continues to rotate when indexed one of the as formed cigarettes is deposited into a channel which extends below the hopper drum and across substantially the entire length of the feeder device along an axis parallel to the axis of rotation of the hopper drum .

A plunger motor is mounted to end plate of the feeder device and may also be controlled by the computer device . When actuated by the computer device i.e. once an individual as formed cigarette is deposited by the hopper drum into the channel the motor rotates a threaded shaft operably engaged with and configured to advance a plunger along the channel . The plunger advances the as formed cigarette along the channel along the longitudinal axis thereof until the as formed cigarette reaches the register position . The travel of the plunger may be determined in many different manners such as for example by a suitable optical contact or proximity type of limit switch sensor or detector operably engaged with the feeder device and or the computer device or . In some instances the register position may be defined outside one of the end plates of the feeder device . In the register position at least a portion of the as formed cigarette is supported by a support in a position approximately parallel to the base . The support may be mounted to the end plate of the feeder device or to the base and is aligned with the channel . In some instances the support may define a support channel not shown for receiving and supporting the as formed cigarette while preventing the as formed cigarette from moving perpendicularly to the longitudinal axis thereof. In operation the as formed cigarette travels smoothly along the cigarette channel to the register position with respect to the support when pushed by the plunger via the plunger motor and travels past the end plate of the feeder device to be supported by the support while being imprinted by the imprinting device .

As shown in the hopper drum is operably engaged with the feeder device such as for instance adjacent to an exit port of the hopper which in turn may be configured to receive the plurality of the as formed cigarettes from a cigarette tray . The hopper drum can thus be indexed or rotated a predetermined amount i.e. angular movement of the hopper drum under control of for example the computer device . As a result the interaction between the hopper and the hopper drum causes an individual as formed cigarette to be received by the drum . The drum then rotates for example to a 12 o clock position at which point the as formed cigarette is disposed in the register position under the imprinting device . Once the as formed cigarette is imprinted by the imprinting device the drum continues to rotate and deposits the imprinted as formed cigarette on a conveyor device which transports the imprinted as formed cigarette to an appropriate collection arrangement not shown .

The imprinting device may be mounted to the feeder device or in another instance the imprinting device may be supported by a separate bracket not shown . In any instance the imprinting device is appropriately supported with respect to the feeder device to be capable of interacting with the as formed cigarette in the register position . For example each of the feeder device and the imprinting device may include complementary alignment elements not shown capable of operably engaging each other. Once engaged the alignment elements are configured to align the imprinting unit with the feeder unit such that the imprinting unit interacts with the as formed cigarette in the register position . One skilled in the art will appreciate however that different arrangements may also be implemented to allow the imprinting device to appropriately interact with the as formed cigarette in the register position . For example a pattern recognition unit not shown may be implemented in conjunction with a movable or otherwise adjustable imprinting unit whereby such a pattern recognition unit first locates the as formed cigarette and the imprinting site thereon and then appropriately guides the imprinting unit to interact with the as formed cigarette in the register position .

Once aligned with the as formed cigarette in the register position the imprinting unit may be further configured to interact with at least one of the filter rod portion and the tobacco rod portion of the as formed cigarette so as to selectively imprint the at least one of an alphanumeric character and a graphical character thereon as shown for example in . The imprinting procedure can be selectively controlled so as to allow for customization and or personalization of one or more as formed cigarettes . In some instances the character may be imprinted only on the filter rod portion only on the tobacco rod portion or on both rod portions i.e. extending over both rod portions . Further the character may be imprinted for example angularly i.e. around the circumference of the as formed cigarette or in other instances the character may be imprinted along the longitudinal axis of the as formed cigarette or in still other instances spirally along the as formed cigarette . As such the imprinting unit may include a single laser imprinting unit capable of being controlled by the computer device to provide the angular imprinting and or the longitudinal imprinting of the character on the as formed cigarette . In other instances however the imprinting unit may comprise a plurality of angularly spaced imprinting elements or laser imprinting units see e.g. A B C in wherein each imprinting element or laser imprinting unit is substantially equidistantly spaced from the longitudinal axis of the as formed cigarette to substantially correspond with a curvature of the rod of the as formed cigarette . The computer device in communication with and capable of controlling each imprinting element or laser imprinting unit may also be configured to selectively imprint a portion of the at least one of an alphanumeric character and a graphical character on at least one of the filter rod portion and the tobacco rod portion by selectively implementing i.e. individually sequentially or simultaneously the plurality of imprinting elements or laser imprinting units. One skilled in the art will also note that the character as a result may extend along the longitudinal axis of about the circumference of or spirally along the as formed cigarette . Further in some instances the support may have a rotation device not shown operably engaged therewith. In such instances the rotation device may be configured to rotate an as formed cigarette in the register position about the axis of the as formed cigarette so as to facilitate for example printing of the character by a single imprinting element in the longitudinal direction i.e. by rotating the as formed cigarette to compensate for the curvature of the rod printing of the character in an angular manner about the circumference of the rod or printing the character in a spiral manner around the circumference of the rod as well as longitudinally with respect thereto.

The at least one of an alphanumeric character and a graphical character or character may be formed by the imprinting unit in many different selective manners within the scope of aspects of the present invention. For example the character may comprise for example a company logo alphabetic letters words numbers symbols graphics or combinations thereof to form for instance a name a phone number an email address a website address a short quote one or more symbols or combinations thereof see e.g. . In some instances the character may also be combined with various shading contrasting underlining bordering other special effects or combinations thereof. In order to imprint the character on the as formed cigarette the imprinting device is configured to be responsive to the computer device such that the character selected by a user and input into the computer device is selectively transferred to the as formed cigarette when the as formed cigarette is in the register position . In one instance the imprinting device may comprise a laser imprinting device such as for example a Videojet 3320 or Focus Series Laser Marking System a Keyence ML G9300 Series Laser Marking System a Domino Laser Head Model No. S200 Red or other suitable model and or series of imprinting device operably engaged with a Model No. DPX 1000 vacuum system. The computer device operably engaged therewith may comprise for example a Laser Controller PC executing Dynamark II operating software and communicating with the imprinting device via an appropriate interface.

In basic operation the plurality of as formed cigarettes is first loaded into the hopper by manual loading or via a cigarette tray disposed so as to feed the plurality of as formed cigarettes into the hopper . At the Laser Controller PC the desired message i.e. character string is entered via the Dynamark II operating software wherein the message may be represented by for example a text message and or a monochrome bitmap image. The bitmap image may be generated on another computer device and then imported into the operating software or the bitmap image may be created via the Dynamark II operating software itself. The message may then be aligned formatted and appropriately sized with respect to the portion of the as formed cigarette on which the message is to be imprinted. More particularly the operating parameters for the Laser Head are entered via the Dynamark II operating software controlling such parameters as Mark Speed in bits per millisecond and Laser On COto vary the intensity of the laser burn on the as formed cigarette which also varies the depth of the laser burn with respect to the paper wrapping the as formed cigarette . Such parameters may be adjusted for instance depending on whether the imprinting of the character is directed to the paper wrapping the filter rod portion or to the paper wrapping the tobacco rod portion .

Once the message and operating parameters have been input into the Laser Controller PC the parameters of the as formed cigarette are entered via the Operator Interface executed on the computer device wherein such parameters vary depending on whether the imprinting of the character is directed to the paper wrapping the filter rod portion or to the paper wrapping the tobacco rod portion and include for example the length of the tobacco rod portion and the total length of the as formed cigarette i.e. in millimeters . The Operator Interface controls for example the operation of the feeder device previously discussed for receiving an as formed cigarette from the hopper and then feeding that as formed cigarette to the register position for interaction with the Laser Head.

In operation the channel sometimes in cooperation with the support maintains the as formed cigarette aligned in the register position while being imprinted by the imprinting device . As shown in after a first as formed cigarette A is imprinted the computer device via the executed software directs the feeder device to feed a second as formed cigarette B to the register position . In doing so the second as formed cigarette B advanced by the plunger displaces the first as formed cigarette A from the support while the second as formed cigarette B is placed in the register position for imprinting thereon by the imprinting device . The displaced imprinted as formed cigarette A may be collected for example by a collector device operably engaged with or otherwise disposed adjacent to the support . This successive displacement process may be selectively continued for any number of cigarettes from the hopper or in other instances may be allowed to continue until the plurality of as formed cigarettes in the hopper is depleted. In such instances once the plurality of cigarettes is depleted from either the hopper or any implemented cigarette tray operation of the feeder device and the imprinting device is halted or placed in a stand by mode pending deposition of additional cigarettes in the hopper . In some instances the apparatus may include a counting device not shown configured to count and provide an indicia of the count of the total number of as formed cigarettes imprinted by the imprinting device .

In some configurations the apparatus may be capable of imprinting for example about 20 cigarettes per minute. However one skilled in the art will appreciate that the apparatus may be readily modified to provide faster or slower processing speeds by for example changing the pitch of the threaded shaft . In this regard the character imprinted on the as formed cigarette may be affected by various parameters associated with the operation of the apparatus . For example print resolution may be controlled by 

The number of characters that may be included on each line of message may be controlled for example by 

In some instances the customized message may include up to 3 lines on the as formed cigarette see e.g. if the as formed cigarette is stationarily maintained in register position during the imprinting process and the message extends along the longitudinal axis of the as formed cigarette . However if the feeder device support is configured to rotate the as formed cigarette during imprinting process while imprinting along the longitudinal axis of the as formed cigarette and or if the imprinting device is configured to imprint around the circumference of the as formed cigarette or spirally along the as formed cigarette more lines may be imprinted. In any instance one aspect involves determining appropriate imprinting parameters such that the character is of sufficient clarity so as to not appear washed out or faded after the imprinting process.

As previously discussed the color of the wrapping materials for the tobacco rod e.g. cigarettes marketed under the trade name More by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company possess cigarette rod wrapping papers exhibiting a brown color and tipping materials used to attach the tobacco rod to the filter element see e.g. wherein tipping materials have been printed or otherwise formed so as to possess a cork appearance a white colored appearance a cinnamon colored appearance and or to possess at least one circumscribing ring may be widely varied. Examples of procedures for producing a printed cigarette wrapping paper for a cigarette making process may be found in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0076929 A1 to Fitzgerald et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. When such wrapping or tipping materials are imprinted by an imprinting device according to aspects of the present invention the laser imprinting device is configured to partially burn the wrapping material or a layer of the wrapping material if the wrapping material includes multiple layers so as to imprint the selected character to provide a suitable contrast with respect to the wrapping material but without burning therethrough. The contrast provided by the interaction between the laser imprinting device and the wrapping material allows the character to be visible legible and facilitates customization personalization of the as formed cigarette . For example interaction of the laser imprinting device with a white wrapping material may produce a brown colored contrasting character while interaction with a brown wrapping material may produce a white colored contrasting character. In some instances the operational parameters of the laser imprinting device may also be varied in cooperation with the wrapping material to provide a different contrasting color of the imprinted character .

According to one aspect implementing an imprinting device as previously discussed herein it was found that variations in particular parameters could cause the laser imprinting device to either burn too lightly such that an unsatisfactory character is provided or to burn too heavily so as to burn through the wrapping material. Parameters such as mark speed and laser on CO were found to be important in this regard. In one embodiment the parameters of the laser imprinting device are selected so as to provide a balance for example between the depth extent of the burn provided by the laser imprinting device versus the contrast achieved with respect to the imprinted character but without changing the performance characteristics of the as formed cigarette . That is for instance the laser imprinting device is configured to provide a sufficient burn for producing the visible legible imprinted character but without providing any further air dilution with respect to the as formed cigarette other than the air dilution purposedly provided for the particular as formed cigarette to obtain the desired performance characteristics thereof. The values of the parameters shown in the following table seemed to provide for a particular set of test conditions an acceptable balance between the appearance of the character and the depth of the burn provided by the laser imprinting device . One skilled in the art will appreciate however that such parameters may change considerably depending on particular conditions encountered in any given cigarette customization process.

One skilled in the art will further appreciate that the customization personalization process discussed herein may occur in a number of different manners. For example such customization personalization may occur at the cigarette making plant factory or laboratory. That is customized personalized cigarettes could be created onsite at the factory i.e. cigarettes produced by a high speed cigarette making machine are stored in a cigarette tray wherein the tray is then engaged with the apparatus which processes imprints the cigarettes and then directs the imprinted cigarettes to a collection device for collection and re traying for later packaging for promotions special offers and or customized sales. In other instances a portable apparatus may allow such customization personalization to be implemented in an aftermarket setting outside the factory or lab environment. For example a portable apparatus could be implemented at brand events i.e. previously packaged cigarettes could be provided by a customer or retailer wherein the cigarettes are unpackaged and loaded into the hopper of the apparatus and whereby the apparatus is configured to process imprint the cigarettes and direct the imprinted cigarettes to a collection device for collection and repackaging and or at cigarette stores i.e. a retailer produces customized personalized cigarettes at the request of a customer wherein the cigarettes are unpackaged and loaded into the hopper of the apparatus and whereby the apparatus is configured to process imprint the cigarettes and direct the imprinted cigarettes to a collection device for collection and repackaging to instantly customize personalize cigarettes for adult smokers. Such customization personalization could be accomplished selectively i.e. a chosen number of cigarettes in bulk i.e. a batch of cigarettes or on a per pack or a per carton basis. In other instances the apparatus could be configured for selective operation by a consumer at a point of sale i.e. the apparatus could be provided as a kiosk where the purchaser of cigarettes could choose to customize the cigarettes of a purchased pack on a self serve basis .

In some instances cigarettes are manufactured such that substantially all of the cigarettes within a lot are of consistent quality. It is highly preferred that cigarettes of a particular lot are comparable to one another in terms of appearance size shape component materials weight tobacco filler particle size distribution tobacco rod firmness smoking properties puff count smoke yield and the like. Preferred cigarettes within a lot each incorporate tobacco filler from a comparable source and the weight of tobacco filler within each cigarette differs by not more that 10 percent more preferably by not more than about 5 percent and most preferably by not more than about 2.5 percent. In a preferred cigarette making operation an operator never touches the cigarette directly with his her hands so as to prevent moisture skin oils or other materials on the operator s hands from soiling or marring the aesthetic appearance of the cigarette.

However in other instances a cigarette may be manufactured for example by providing a selection of tobacco appropriate for use in cigarettes allowing a customer to select a tobacco or blend of several tobaccos assembling the selected tobacco or blend of tobaccos substantially simultaneously into a plurality of cigarettes having substantially consistent quality including at least consistent density and tobacco mass and providing at least some of the plurality of cigarettes to the customer. Such a method may also include packaging the plurality of cigarettes. Alternatively the customer may be allowed to select a plurality of tobaccos or a plurality of tobacco blends wherein assembling a plurality of the cigarettes may include one or more of the plurality of cigarettes having a different tobacco and or blend than other s in the plurality of cigarettes. Further in another alternative the selected tobacco or blend of tobaccos may be provided in the form of tobacco cartridges that may be assembled into cigarettes using for example a cigarette making apparatus. Such cigarette making apparatuses using such methods are described for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2006 0272654 A1 to Barnes et al. US 2006 0272655 A1 to Thomas et al. and US 2007 0006888 A1 to Hicks et al. which are each incorporated herein by reference.

In addition such a cigarette making device may be incorporated within a tobacco specialty retail shop or store. That is at least one such device may be on prominent display within the premises of a retail establishment specializing in high quality or premium tobacco products. Such a shop or store may have a name that corresponds to the brand name of tobacco products available for sale within that shop or store. For example such a cigarette making device can be employed to manufacture cigarettes for commercial sale in a tobacco retail outlet such as the establishment operating as Marshall McGearty Tobacco Lounge at 1553 N. Milwaukee Avenue Chicago Ill. The shop or store preferably includes an inviting atmosphere comfortable lounge areas or appropriate places to sit and enjoy the smoking of tobacco products a high quality air handling or air conditioning system and locations to purchase tobacco products. A customer within such a shop or store can talk with a tobacconist about the cigarettes that are manufactured in that retail establishment. The packaging filter materials cigarette paper materials tobacco components including the selection of tobacco types and grade tobacco blends and casing and top dressing components can be high quality in terms of sensory properties and appearance. Locating a cigarette making device within such a shop or store allows the customer within such an establishment to experience the manufacture of cigarettes and enjoy cigarettes that are freshly made in his her presence. For example that customer can smell the aroma of different tobaccos within the store and can view the manufacture of cigarettes expressly for him her. As one example a customer may choose between tobacco blends such as those incorporated into Marshall McGearty brand styles identified as The Standard Karmelita Oriental Rose Malawi Kings Cutlass Samsun Straights Virginia Four Corners The Empress The Earl North Star Aegean and Muse. The selected blend s may then be manufactured into cigarettes by Marshall McGearty Tobacco Artisans using the cigarette making apparatus. In this environment using multi sensory inputs e.g. sight smell the customer can make an informed decision on his her selection of different tobaccos and or tobacco blends to be loaded into a cigarette making apparatus to manufacture cigarettes in his her presence. Thus embodiments of a cigarette customization apparatus according to the present invention may also be utilized in such a retail setting that provides a customer with an aesthetic experience and an individually selected product.

In any instance as formed cigarettes imprinted according to embodiments of the present invention aside from being re packaged as detailed for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2006 0272654 A1 to Barnes et al. US 2006 0272655 A1 to Thomas et al. and US 2007 0006888 A1 to Hicks et al. previously incorporated herein by reference may also be randomly distributed or be packaged with non imprinted as formed cigarettes. For example the imprinted as formed cigarettes could be combined with other as formed cigarettes whether imprinted or not using a method and apparatus as detailed for instance in International Publication No. WO2006 016154 A2 to Ancona et al. In such a manner the imprinted cigarettes may be used for example for purposes of a contest i.e. the holder of a pack of cigarettes having an imprinted cigarette therein may be the winner of a prize or in any other manner where the presence of an imprinted cigarette may distinguish the holder thereof.

Many modifications and other aspects of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present invention can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

