---

title: Endless belt and production method thereof, intermediate transfer belt, and image forming apparatus
abstract: The present invention provides an endless belt containing a conductive agent and a polyimide resin whose imidation ratio at an outer circumference surface of the belt and that at an inner circumference surface of the belt are mutually different, and a method of producing the endless belt, an intermediate transfer belt having the endless belt, and an image forming apparatus having the endless belt.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07645520&OS=07645520&RS=07645520
owner: Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
number: 07645520
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070619
---
This application is based on and claims priority under 35 USC 119 from Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 334225 filed in Dec. 12 2006.

The invention relates to an endless belt and a method of producing the same an intermediate transfer belt and an image forming apparatus.

In an electrophotography apparatus image forming apparatus first charges are formed on a photoreceptor using an electrically conductive material modulated image signals are converted to an electrostatic latent image by laser beam and the like then the electrostatic latent image is developed with charged toner to give a toner image. Then this toner image is transferred onto a recording medium directly or via an intermediate transfer body obtaining an image.

In an image forming apparatus adopting a method of primarily transferring a toner image on a photoreceptor onto an intermediate transfer body then secondarily transferring the toner image on the intermediate transfer body onto a recording medium such as paper and the like what is called an intermediate transfer mode an intermediate transfer belt is used as the intermediate transfer body.

For the purpose of imparting conductivity to a polyimide material carbon black particles having conductivity are dispersed in a polyimide resin. It is well known that variation in resistance of a polyimide endless belt owing to voltage may be suppressed by enhancing dispersibility of carbon black.

When such a polyimide endless belt containing a dispersed conductive material is used as the intermediate transfer body a high resistant layer is provided as an effective means on a belt shaped intermediate surface layer for conducting multicolor printing of high image quality.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided an endless belt comprising a conductive agent and a polyimide resin whose imidation ratio at an outer circumference surface of the belt and that at an inner circumference surface of the belt are mutually different.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention will be illustrated in detail referring to drawings below. Members having common functions and actions are endowed with the same marks throughout all figures and duplicated descriptions are omitted in some cases.

An endless belt according to the first exemplary embodiment is constituted of a single polyimide resin layer containing a conductive agent as shown in . The outer circumference surface and the inner circumference surface of the endless belt have mutually different surface resistivity together with mutually different imidation ratios of a polyimide resin. In this exemplary embodiment the imidation ratio of a polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface is lower than that at the inner circumference surface. Additionally the surface resistivity at the outer circumference surface is lower than that at the inner circumference surface.

The endless belt according to this exemplary embodiment has for example a region A in which the imidation ratio increases continuously from the outer circumference surface side toward the inner circumference surface side of the belt in the range of 50 or less of the thickness and a region B in which the imidation ratio is constant from the region A toward the inner circumference surface thereafter. Specifically the imidation ratio of a polyimide resin increases continuously from the outer circumference surface side toward the inner circumference surface side of the belt and becomes constant thereafter as shown for example in .

Additionally a molecular structure of a tetracarboxylic acid residue and a diamine compound residue constituting the polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface and that at the inner circumference surface are mutually the same and a composition ratio of the tetracarboxylic acid residue to the diamine compound residue constituting the polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface and that at the inner circumference surface are mutually the same.

That is the endless belt according to this exemplary embodiment has a single layer structure and has no clear boundary face even if the imidation ratios and surface resistivity of a polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface and that at the inner circumference surface are mutually different.

The features that molecular structures of a tetracarboxylic acid residue and a diamine compound residue constituting a polyimide resin are the same and that a composition ratio of the tetracarboxylic acid residue to the diamine compound residue is the same may be investigated as described below.

From this belt a specific portion is cut out or polished to manufacture a test specimen. This test specimen is heated and hydrolyzed in a strong base aqueous solution in an amount of 10 times or more. Here a strong base such as sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide calcium hydroxide and the like is dissolved in water to prepare the basic aqueous solution to be used. The concentration of this strong base aqueous solution is appropriately selected in the range of 5 by weight or more and 30 by weight or less.

After hydrolysis the polyimide resin is decomposed into polyamic acid further into a diamine compound and tetracarboxylic acid. From the hydrolysis liquid tetracarboxylic acid and diamine compound are extracted in a liquid phase using chloroform. The extraction liquid is subjected to qualitative quantitative analyses by liquid chromatography and solution peaks of the corresponding tetracarboxylic acid and diamine compound are used as standards and compared thus the structures of the diamine compound residue and the tetracarboxylic acid residue and the content ratios of the diamine compound residue to the tetracarboxylic acid residue contained in the polyimide resin may be determined.

 Tetracarboxylic acid residue denotes a tetravalent organic group for example corresponding to R Rand Rin the formulae 1 and 2 described later connected by four carboxylic acids or connecting groups formed by them . On the other hand diamine compound residue denotes a di valent organic group for example corresponding to Rand Rin the formulae 1 and 2 described later connected to N or NH .

The imidation ratio of a polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface is desirably 50 or more and 95 or less more desirably 60 or more and 90 or less further desirably 70 or more and 85 or less. On the other hand the imidation ratio of a polyimide resin at the inner circumference surface is desirably 60 or more and 100 or less more desirably 70 or more and 100 or less further desirably 90 or more and 100 or less.

The difference between the imidation ratio of the polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface and the imidation ratio of the polyimide resin at the inner circumference surface is desirably 5 or more and 20 or less more desirably 10 or more and 20 or less further desirably 15 or more and 20 or less.

The region in which the imidation ratio of a polyimide resin changes from the outer circumference surface toward the inner circumference surface is desirably a region of 50 or less of the thickness from the outer circumference surface more desirably 40 or less of the thickness further desirably 30 or less of the thickness. Specifically for example the region in which the imidation ratio of a polyimide resin changes is desirably a depth of 50 m or less toward the thickness direction from the outer circumference surface more desirably a depth of 40 m or less further desirably a depth of 30 m or less hypothesizing the thickness is 100 m.

On the other hand the surface resistivity at the outer circumference surface and the surface resistivity at the inner circumference surface differ mutually and the common logarithm value thereof is desirably 9 log or more and 13 log or less more desirably 11.5 log or more and 12.5 log or less further desirably 10 log or more and 12 log or less.

The difference between the surface resistivity at the outer circumference surface and the surface resistivity at the inner circumference surface is in terms of common logarithm value desirably larger than 0.5 log more desirably larger than 1.0 log . The upper limit of this difference is desirably 4.0 log or less.

The method of producing the endless belt according to this exemplary embodiment will be illustrated below.

The endless belt according to this exemplary embodiment may be produced for example as described below. The endless belt may be produced via a process of applying a polyimide precursor on a metal mold to form a coating film a process of drying the coating film and then calcining the film to form a polyimide resin film and a process of performing a hydrolysis treatment on one surface of the polyimide resin film.

First the polyimide precursor will be described. As the polyimide precursor for example polyamic acid compositions described below are mentioned. The polyamic acid compositions have for example a constitution containing a polymer containing a polyamic acid structure a coating solvent and a tertiary amine as a catalyst. If necessary additives such as a carboxylic anhydride conductive agent dispersing agent and the like may also be contained.

The compositions of polyimide resins its precursor are only examples and the precursor is not limited to them. For example polyimide resin analogous materials may also be used. As the polyimide resin analogous material polymer materials containing an imide skeleton in a polymer main chain structure may be used. Specific examples include polyamideimide resins obtained by copolymerizing trimellitic acid instead of tetracarboxylic acid in a precursor composition described later to allow a polymer main chain structure to have an amide group and an imide group together polyimide polyamic acid copolymers containing an amic acid residue remaining by partially performing an imidation reaction by controlling the reaction condition for polyamic acid. When a polyamideimide resin is used for example trimellitic acid derivatives such as trimellitic anhydride and the like are used as raw materials instead of tetracarboxylic dianhydride described later. On the other hand in the case of a polyimide polyamic acid copolymer tetracarboxylic dianhydride described later is used.

The polymer containing a polyamic acid structure is a polymer which may be a polyimide precursor and includes polyamic acids and polyamic acid polyimide copolymers.

The polyamic acid includes suitably a polyamic acid of the following formula 1 . The polyamic acid polyimide copolymer includes suitably a polyamic acid polyimide copolymer of the following formula 2 .

In the formula 1 Rrepresents a tetravalent organic group and Rrepresents a divalent organic group. While in the formula 2 Rrepresents a tetravalent organic group Rrepresents a divalent organic group Rrepresents a tetravalent organic group and Rrepresents a divalent organic group.

Here divalent organic groups R Rand Rrepresent residual structures obtained by removing two amino groups from the corresponding diamine compounds. Tetravalent organic groups R Rand Rrepresent residues obtained by removing four carbonyl groups from the corresponding tetracarboxylic acid compounds.

The polyamic acid is obtained by polymerizing tetracarboxylic dianhydride and diamine compound of equimolar amount in an organic polar solvent. The polyimide polyamic acid copolymer is synthesized by polymerizing a polyamic acid and then performing partial imidation reaction.

The tetracarboxylic dianhydride which may be used in production of a polyamic acid is not particularly restricted and any of aromatic and aliphatic compounds may be used.

Examples of the aromatic tetracarboxylic dianhydride include pyromellitic dianhydride 3 3 4 4 benzophenonetetracarboxylic dianhydride 3 3 4 4 biphenylsulfonetetracarboxylic dianhydride 1 4 5 8 naphthalenetetracarboxylic dianhydride 2 3 6 7 naphthalenetetracarboxylic dianhydride 3 3 4 4 biphenyl ether tetracarboxylic dianhydride 3 3 4 4 dimethyldiphenylsilanetetracarboxylic dianhydride 3 3 4 4 tetraphenylsilanetetracarboxylic dianhydride 1 2 3 4 furantetracarboxylic dianhydride 4 4 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenyl sulfide dianhydride 4 4 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenyl sulfone dianhydride 4 4 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenoxy diphenylpropane dianhydride 3 3 4 4 perfluoroisopropylidenediphthalic dianhydride 3 3 4 4 biphenyltetracarboxylic dianhydride bis phthalic phenylphosphine oxide dianhydride p phenylene bis triphenylphthalic dianhydride m phenylene bis triphenylphthalic dianhydride bis triphenylphthalic 4 4 diphenyl ether dianhydride bis triphenylphthalic 4 4 diphenylmethane dianhydride and the like.

The aliphatic tetracarboxylic dianhydride includes aliphatic or alicyclic tetracarboxylic dianhydrides such as butanetetracarboxylic dianhydride 1 2 3 4 cyclobutanetetracarboxylic dianhydride 1 3 dimethyl 1 2 3 4 cyclobutanetetracarboxylic dianhydride 1 2 3 4 cyclopentanetetracarboxylic dianhydride 2 3 5 tricarboxycyclopentylacetic dianhydride 3 5 6 tricarboxynorbornane 2 acetic dianhydride 2 3 4 5 tetrahydrofurantetracarboxylic dianhydride 5 2 5 dioxotetrahydrofural 3 methyl 3 cyclohexene 1 2 dicarboxylic dianhydride bicyclo 2 2 2 oct 7 ene 2 3 5 6 tetracarboxylic dianhydride and the like and aliphatic tetracarboxylic dianhydrides having an aromatic ring such as 1 3 3a 4 5 9b hexahydro 2 5 dioxo 3 furanyl naphtho 1 2 c furan 1 3 dione 1 3 3a 4 5 9b hexahydro 5 methyl 5 tetrahydro 2 5 dioxo 3 furanyl naphtho 1 2 c furan 1 3 dione 1 3 3a 4 5 9b hexahydro 8 methyl 5 tetrahydro 2 5 dioxo 3 furanyl naphtho 1 2 c furan 1 3 dione and the like.

The tetracarboxylic dianhydride is preferably an aromatic tetracarboxylic dianhydride and further pyromellitic dianhydride 3 3 4 4 benzophenonetetracarboxylic dianhydride and 3 3 4 4 biphenylsulfonetetracarboxylic dianhydride are suitably used.

The diamine compound which may be used in production of a polyamic acid is not particularly restricted providing it is a diamine compound having two amino groups in the molecule structure.

Examples thereof include aromatic diamines such as p phenylenediamine m phenylenediamine 4 4 diaminodiphenylmethane 4 4 diaminodiphenylethane 4 4 diaminodiphenyl ether 4 4 diaminodiphenyl sulfide 4 4 diaminodiphenyl sulfone 1 5 diaminonaphthalene 3 3 dimethyl 4 4 diaminobiphenyl 5 amino 1 4 aminophenyl 1 3 3 trimethylindan 6 amino 1 4 aminophenyl 1 3 3 trimethylindan 4 4 diaminobenzanilide 3 5 diamino 3 trifluoromethylbenzanilide 3 5 diamino 4 trifluoromethylbenzanilide 3 4 diaminodiphenyl ether 2 7 diaminofluorene 2 2 bis 4 aminophenyl hexafluoropropane 4 4 methylene bis 2 chloroaniline 2 2 5 5 tetrachloro 4 4 diaminobiphenyl 2 2 dichloro 4 4 diamino 5 5 dimethoxybiphenyl 3 3 dimethoxy 4 4 diaminobiphenyl 4 4 diamino 2 2 bis trifluoromethyl biphenyl 2 2 bis 4 4 aminophenoxy phenyl propane 2 2 bis 4 4 aminophenoxy phenyl hexafluoropropane 1 4 bis 4 aminophenoxy benzene 4 4 bis 4 aminophenoxy biphenyl 1 3 bis 4 aminophenoxy benzene 9 9 bis 4 aminophenyl fluorene 4 4 p phenyleneisopropylidene bisaniline 4 4 m phenyleneisopropylidene bisaniline 2 2 bis 4 4 amino 2 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenyl hexafluoropropane 4 4 bis 4 4 amino 2 trifluoromethyl phenoxy octafluorobiphenyl aromatic diamines having two amino groups connected to an aromatic ring and having a hetero atom other than a nitrogen atom of the amino group such as diaminotetraphenylthiophene aliphatic diamines and alicyclic diamines such as 1 1 metaxylylenediamine 1 3 propanediamine tetramethylenediamine pentamethylenediamine octamethylenediamine nonamethylenediamine 4 4 diaminoheptamethylenediamine 1 4 diaminocyclohexane isophoronediamine tetrahydrodicyclopentadienylenediamine hexahydro 4 7 methanoindanylenedimethylenediamine tricyclo 6 2 1 0 undecylenedimethyldiamine 4 4 methylenebis cyclohexylamine .

The diamine compound includes preferably p phenylenediamine 4 4 diaminodiphenylmethane 4 4 diaminodiphenyl ether 4 4 diaminodiphenyl sulfide and 4 4 diaminodiphenyl sulfone.

As the polyamic acid desirably those containing an aromatic tetracarboxylic dianhydride and an aromatic diamine are preferable.

Examples of the organic polar solvent to be used in a reaction for producing this polyamic acid include sulfoxide solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide diethyl sulfoxide formamide solvents such as N N dimethylformamide N N diethylformamide acetamide solvents such as N N dimethylacetamide N N diethylacetamide pyrrolidone solvents such as N methyl 2 pyrrolidone N vinyl 2 pyrrolidone phenol solvents such as phenol o m or p cresol xylenol phenol halide catechol ether solvents such as tetrahydrofuran dioxane dioxolane alcohol solvents such as methanol ethanol butanol cellosolves such as butylcellosolve or hexamethylphosphoramide butyrolactone and the like and it is desirable that these solvents are used singly or in admixture further aromatic hydrocarbons such as xylene toluene may also be used. The solvent is not particularly restricted providing it dissolves polyamic acids and polyamic acid polyimide copolymers.

The solid content of a polyamic acid solution is not particularly restricted and for example it is preferably 5 by weight or more and 50 by weight or less further preferably 10 by weight or more and 30 by weight or less.

The reaction temperature in polymerizing a polyamic acid is for example 0 C. or higher and 80 C. or lower.

The polyamic acid polyimide copolymer is obtained by converting at least a part of a polyamic acid structure in a polyamic acid into an imide group by a dehydration cyclization reaction by a method of heat treatment of the above described polyamic acid to cause imidation or a chemical imidation method of allowing a dehydrating agent and or a catalyst to act.

The heating temperature in the method by heat treatment is for example usually 60 C. or higher and 200 C. or lower desirably 100 C. or higher and 170 C. or lower.

On the other hand in the chemical imidation method a dehydrating agent and or a catalyst is added into a polyamic acid solution and an imidation reaction is progressed chemically. The dehydrating agent is not particularly restricted providing it is a monovalent carboxylic anhydride. For example one or more compounds selected from acid anhydrides such as acetic anhydride propionic anhydride trifluoroacetic anhydride butanoic anhydride and oxalic anhydride may be used. The amount of the dehydrating agent to be added is preferably 0.01 mol or more and 2 mol or less based on 1 mol of repeating units in the polyamic acid.

As the catalyst one or more compounds selected from pyridine picoline collidine lutidine quinoline isoquinoline tertiary amines such as triethylamine may be used however the catalyst is not limited to them. The amount of the catalyst to be added is preferably 0.01 mol or more and 2 mol or less based on 1 mol of a dehydrating agent to be used.

This chemical imidation reaction is carried out by adding a dehydrating agent and or a catalyst into a polyamic acid solution and if necessary heating the solution. The reaction temperature of dehydration cyclization is usually 0 C. or higher and 180 C. or lower desirably 60 C. or higher and 150 C. or lower.

Though not particularly restricted providing partial imidation is attained the composition ratio of an imidated structure to an unreacted amic acid structure is preferably 0 100 mol mol to 80 20 mol mol . When the composition ratio of an imide group to an amic acid group is over 80 20 mol mol there is a possibility of insolubilization of a polyamic acid polyimide copolymer.

Though the dehydrating agent and or catalyst acted on a polyamic acid polyimide copolymer may not be removed these may be removed by the following method. As the method of removing the acted dehydrating agent and or catalyst heating under reduced pressure or reprecipitation method may be used. The heating under reduced pressure is carried out in vacuo at temperatures of 80 C. or higher and 120 C. or lower to distill off a tertiary amine to be used as a catalyst an unreacted dehydrating agent and a hydrolyzed carboxylic acid. The reprecipitation method is carried out by using a poor solvent which dissolves a catalyst unreacted dehydrating agent and hydrolyzed carboxylic acid but does not dissolve a polyamic acid polyimide copolymer and adding reaction liquid into the poor solvent of large excess amount. The poor solvent is not particularly restricted and water alcohol solvents such as methanol and ethanol ketone solvents such as acetone and methyl ethyl ketone hydrocarbon solvents such as hexane and the like may be used. The polyamic acid polyimide copolymer to be deposited is after filtration and drying dissolved again in a solvent such as butyrolactone and N methyl 2 pyrrolidone.

The solid content of the polymer containing a polyamic acid structure in the polyamic acid composition is preferably 10 by weight or more for obtaining thickness desirable as a belt material. This solid content is desirably 15 by weight or more and its upper limit is 50 by weight.

Examples of the coating solvent include sulfoxide solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide diethyl sulfoxide formamide solvents such as N N dimethylformamide N N diethylformamide acetamide solvents such as N N dimethylacetamide N N diethylacetamide pyrrolidone solvents such as N methyl 2 pyrrolidone N vinyl 2 pyrrolidone phenol solvents such as phenol o m or p cresol xylenol phenol halide catechol ether solvents such as tetrahydrofuran dioxane dioxolane alcohol solvents such as methanol ethanol butanol cellosolves such as butylcellosolve or hexamethylphosphoramide butyrolactone and the like and it is desirable that these solvents are used singly or in admixture further aromatic hydrocarbons such as xylene toluene may also be used. The solvent is not particularly restricted providing it dissolves polyamic acids and polyamic acid polyimide copolymers.

The coating solvent may be used in previous polyamic acid synthesis as a synthesis solvent. The synthesis solvent may be substituted by the coating solvent after polyamic acid polymerization. Substitution of the solvent may be carried out by any one of a method of adding a predetermined amount of solvent to a polyamic acid solution to perform dilution a method of after reprecipitation of a polymer performing redissolution of a polymer in a predetermined solvent and a method of adjusting a composition by adding a predetermined solvent while gradually distilling the solvent off.

Though the solid content of a polyamic acid composition is not particularly restricted a range for manifesting suitable viscosity is selected depending on easiness of performing a coating process in producing a polyimide endless belt. The viscosity which is optimum for coating is in general desirably 1 Pa s or more and 100 Pa s or less and the solid content giving such viscosity is desirably 10 by weight or more and 40 by weight or less based on 100 parts by weight of a coating solvent for example organic polar solvent .

The tertiary amine acts as a catalyst for an imidation reaction and for example one or more compounds selected from pyridine picoline collidine lutidine quinoline isoquinoline and triethylamine may be suitably used.

Regarding the content of the tertiary amine the amine may be added for example in an amount of 0.1 part by weight or more and 30 parts by weight or less based on 100 parts by weight of resin components in a polyamic acid composition.

The carboxylic anhydride acts as a dehydrating agent in an imidation reaction and promotes an imidation reaction. The carboxylic anhydride includes acetic anhydride trifluoroacetic anhydride propionic anhydride butanoic anhydrides oxalic anhydride and the like and of them acetic anhydride is suitable. These may be used singly or in combination of two or more.

The content of a carboxylic anhydride may be for example 0.1 parts by weight or more and 30 parts by weight or less based on 100 parts by weight of resin components in a polyamic acid composition.

As the conductive agent powders powders having a primary particle size of less than 10 m are preferable and powders having a primary particle size of 1 m or less are further desirable having conductivity for example volume resistivity is less than 10 cm applicable in the following descriptions or semiconductivity for example volume resistivity is 10 cm or more and 10 cm or less applicable in the following descriptions may be used and the conductive agent is not particularly restricted providing desired electric resistance is obtained and examples thereof include carbon blacks such as Ketjen black acetylene black metals such as aluminum and nickel metal oxide compounds such as tin oxide potassium titanate and the like. These may be used singly or in combination. Of them acidic carbon black having pH of 5 or less may be desirably added.

As the conductive agent ion conductive substances such as LiCl and conductive polymers such as polyaniline polypyrrole polysulfone polyacetylene may also be added. These may be used singly or in combination.

When a conductive polymer is used as the conductive agent the conductive polymer to be contained is present for example in the form of dissolution and or dispersion in an organic polar solvent. The particle size of the dispersed conductive polymer particle is desirably 10 m or less more desirably 5 m or less further desirably 1 m or less.

Additionally though the content of a conductive polymer in a polyamic acid component is not particularly restricted the content of a conductive polymer is particularly desirably 1 part by weight or more and 40 parts by weight or less when the content of a polyamic acid resin is 100 parts by weight.

The acidic carbon black may be produced by imparting a carboxyl group quinone group lactone group hydroxyl group or the like to the surface by an oxidation treatment of carbon black. This oxidation treatment may be carried out by an air oxidation method of contacting with air under a high temperature for example 300 C. or higher and 800 C. or lower atmosphere to cause a reaction a method of reacting with a nitrogen oxide or ozone under ambient temperature for example 25 C. applicable in the following descriptions a method of carrying out air oxidation at high temperatures for example 300 C. or higher and 800 C. or lower and then carrying out ozone oxidation at low temperatures for example 20 C. or higher and 200 C. or lower and the like.

Specifically acidic carbon black may be produced by for example a contact method. This contact method includes a channel method gas black method and the like. Also acidic carbon black may be produced by a furnace black method using a gas or oil as a raw material. If necessary a liquid phase oxidation treatment with nitric acid and the like may be carried out after performing these treatments.

Though acidic carbon black may be produced by a contact method it is usually produced by a furnace method of sealed mode. In a furnace method only carbon black of high pH and low volatile matter is usually produced however the above mentioned liquid phase oxidation treatment may be performed on the carbon black to control pH. Thus carbon black produced by a furnace method and of which pH is controlled to 5 or lower by a post process treatment may also be applied.

The pH value of acidic carbon black is for example 5.0 or less and desirably 4.5 or less more desirably 4.0 or less.

Here an aqueous suspension of carbon black is prepared and pH thereof is measured by a glass electrode. pH of acidic carbon black may be controlled by conditions such as treating temperature and treating time in an oxidation treatment process.

It is suitable that acidic carbon black contains volatile components in a proportion of for example 1 or more and 25 or less desirably 2 or more and 20 or less more desirably 3.5 or more and 15 or less. The proportion of the volatile component is a value determined according to the method described in JIS K6211 1982 .

Specific examples of acidic carbon black include PRINTEX 150T pH 4.5 volatile content 10.0 by weight SPECIAL BLACK 350 pH 3.5 volatile content 2.2 by weight SPECIAL BLACK 100 pH 3.3 volatile content 2.2 by weight SPECIAL BLACK 250 pH 3.1 volatile content 2.0 by weight SPECIAL BLACK 5 pH 3.0 volatile content 15.0 by weight SPECIAL BLACK 4 pH 3.0 volatile content 14.0 by weight SPECIAL BLACK 4A pH 3.0 volatile content 14.0 by weight SPECIAL BLACK 550 pH 2.8 volatile content 2.5 by weight SPECIAL BLACK 6 pH 2.5 volatile content 18.0 by weight COLOR BLACK FW200 pH 2.5 volatile content 20.0 by weight COLOR BLACK FW2 pH 2.5 volatile content 16.5 by weight and COLOR BLACK FW2V pH 2.5 volatile content 16.5 by weight manufactured by Degussa Corporation and MONARCH 1000 pH 2.5 volatile content 9.5 by weight MONARCH 1300 pH 2.5 volatile content 9.5 by weight MONARCH 1400 pH 2.5 volatile content 9.0 by weight MOGUL L pH 2.5 volatile content 5.0 by weight and REGAL 400R pH 4.0 volatile content 3.5 by weight manufactured by Cabot Corporation.

It is desirable that the content of the carbon black is 20 parts by weight or more and 40 parts by weight or less based on 100 parts by weight of a polyamic acid in a polyamic acid composition.

As the dispersing agent any kind of dispersing agents selected from those of low molecular weight high molecular weight and cationic anionic nonionic agents may be used. As the dispersing agent nonionic polymers are most desirably used.

The nonionic polymer includes poly N vinyl 2 pyrrolidone poly N N diethyl acrylazide poly N vinylformamide poly N vinylacetamide poly N vinylphthalamide poly N vinylsuccinic amide poly N vinylurea poly N vinylpiperidone poly N vinylcaprolactam poly N vinyloxazoline and the like and single or several nonionic polymers may be added. According to an aspect of the invention poly N vinyl 2 pyrrolidone is desirably contained since dispersibility of carbon black is enhanced.

In a polyamic acid composition the content of a nonionic polymer is desirably 0.2 parts by weight or more and 3 parts by weight or less based on 100 parts by weight of a polyamic acid.

Here one example of the method of forming a polyimide resin layer using a polyamic acid composition as a precursor of the above mentioned polyimide resin will be illustrated in detail below.

First for example the above mentioned polyamic acid composition is prepared as described below. First a polyamic acid solution which is a precursor of a polyimide resin obtained by polymerizing a tetracarboxylic dianhydride and a diamine component in an organic solvent is added into a poor solvent such as methanol to cause deposition of a polyamic acid which is purified by reprecipitation. The deposited polyamic acid is filtrated and then re dissolved into a solvent such as butyrolactone to obtain a polyamic acid solution.

To the polyamic acid solution a predetermined amount of tertiary amine and if necessary carboxylic anhydride are added and the mixture is stirred for dissolution thereof obtaining a polyamic acid composition.

Next this solution is allowed to contain a conductive agent such as carbon black in a proportion of 5 parts by weight or more and 60 parts by weight or less in total based on 100 parts by weight in terms of dry weight of a polyamic acid resin.

Here examples of the method of dispersing this conductive agent and crushing its agglomerate include but not limited to physical means such as stirring by a mixer and stirrer parallel roll ultrasonic dispersion and chemical means such as introduction of a dispersing agent.

Next this solution is applied on the inner surface or outer surface of a metal mold. As the metal mold a cylindrical metal mold is preferable and instead of the metal mold molding dies made of various conventionally known materials such as resins glass ceramic may be preferably used as the molding die. Further provision of a glass coat or ceramic coat on the surface of a molding die and use of a silicone or fluorine based releasing agent may also be selected. Further a film thickness controlling metal mold having regulated clearance for a cylindrical metal mold is inserted in the cylindrical metal mold and moved in parallel to exclude an excess solution to eliminate irregularity in thickness of a solution on the cylindrical metal mold. If the thickness of a solution has been controlled in a stage of application of a solution on the cylindrical metal mold there is particularly no need for use of the film thickness controlling metal mold.

Next this cylindrical metal mold carrying thereon an applied polyamic acid solution is placed under a heating or vacuum atmosphere and dried for volatilization of 30 by weight or more desirably 50 by weight or more of the content solvent.

Further this metal mold is heated at 200 C. or higher and 450 C. or lower to progress an imide conversion reaction. The imidation temperature varies depending on the kinds of raw material tetracarboxylic dianhydride and diamine however should be set at temperatures realizing completion of imidation. When imidation is insufficient a mechanical property and electric property are poor. If a case of imidation of a polyamic acid solution not imidated and a case of imidation of a polyamic acid solution partially imidated are compared the partially imidated polyamic acid may be completely imidated at temperatures as low as about 50 C. or higher and 200 C. or lower if the kinds of imides are identical though varying depending on the partial imidation ratio and the like.

A hydrolysis treatment is performed on the outer circumference surface or the inner circumference surface outer circumference surface in this exemplary embodiment of the resulting polyimide resin film. Specifically for example contact with an alkali solution is performed. Further the hydrolysis treatment may be carried out also by contact with water vapor.

As the alkaline solution basic solution aqueous solutions are mentioned prepared by dissolution into water of basic compounds such as hydroxides or carbonates of alkali metals for example lithium sodium potassium and alkaline earth metals magnesium calcium . As the basic compound sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide are suitable. The concentration of the basic compound in the alkaline solution is selected for example in the range of 0.1 by weight or more and 20 by weight or less.

The temperature of the hydrolysis treatment with an alkaline solution is for example in the range of 20 C. or higher and 100 C. or lower. As the hydrolysis treatment time levels for obtaining an intended physical property are selected in the range of 10 seconds or more and 24 hours or less.

By this the imidation ratio of the treated surface lowers and the alkali solution is impregnated from the treated surface and the imidation ratio increases continuously from the treated surface toward the thickness direction. In addition the molecular structure of the tetracarboxylic acid residue and the diamine compound residue constituting the polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface and that at the inner circumference surface are mutually the same and the composition ratio of the tetracarboxylic acid residue to the diamine compound residue constituting the polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface and that at the inner circumference surface are mutually the same. Thus a belt of single layer constitution containing no clear boundary surface is obtained.

As the method of lowering the imidation ratio is not limited to the above mentioned hydrolysis and there is also a method in which at least one of amine catalysts and dehydration catalysts is allowed to contact to carry out the treatment. Examples of this amine catalyst include pyridine picoline quinoline isoquinoline and the like. As the dehydration catalyst phthalic anhydride propionic acid butanoic acid and the like are mentioned.

It is advantageous to allow an acidic solution to come into contact with the treated surface on which a hydrolysis treatment has been performed with an alkali solution. It is advantageous to wash the hydrolyzed surface with pure water to remove an alkali solution before treatment with an acidic solution. Additionally solvents miscible with water such as alcohols may also be used together in addition to the above described pure water.

On this treated surface on which a hydrolysis treatment has been performed with an alkali solution a polyimide resin is hydrolyzed to form a metal salt of polyamic acid. Therefore the polyamic acid metal salt is substituted by a polyamic acid using an acidic solution.

As the acidic solution mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid nitric acid sulfuric acid are used. The concentration of the acidic solution is selected for example in the range of 0.1 by weight or more and 20 by weight or less.

The treatment with an acidic solution amic oxidation treatment is conducted for example at temperatures in the range of 20 C. or higher and 100 C. or lower. On the other hand in the treatment with an acidic solution amic oxidation treatment for example levels for obtaining an intended physical property are selected in the range of 10 seconds or more and 24 hours or less.

Thereafter the surface of the polyimide resin film is washed with pure water then moisture is dried and the resin is detached from the metal mold. Thus an intended polyimide endless belt may be obtained. On the resultant polyimide endless belt if necessary slit processing of an edge punching perforating processing tape winding processing and the like are further performed in some cases.

The endless belt according to this exemplary embodiment described above may be used in various applications such as intermediate transfer belts and transfer delivery belts in image forming apparatuses of electrophotography mode such as electrophotography copying machines laser beam printers facsimiles and composite devices thereof.

In this exemplary embodiment described is an exemplary embodiment in which the imidation ratio of a polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface is lowed than that at the inner circumference surface and the surface resistivity at the outer circumference surface is lower than that at the inner circumference surface however the exemplary embodiment is not limited to this and an exemplary embodiment in which the imidation ratio of a polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface is higher than that at the inner circumference surface and the surface resistivity at the outer circumference surface is higher than that at the inner circumference surface is also permissible. This exemplary embodiment has for example a region in which the imidation ratio increases from the inner circumference surface side of the belt toward the outer circumference surface side in a range of 50 or less of the thickness and a region in which the imidation ratio is constant from the above mentioned region toward the outer circumference surface thereafter and for example this exemplary embodiment may be realized by performing the above mentioned hydrolysis treatment on the inner circumference surface of the belt.

In this exemplary embodiment an exemplary embodiment of single layer constitution is explained however an exemplary embodiment may also be realized in which the outer circumference surface and the inner circumference surface of the endless belt have mutually different surface resistivity together with mutually different imidation ratios of a polyimide resin due to a lamination constitution. This exemplary embodiment may be realized by first producing a polyimide endless belt base material and forming a polyimide resin surface layer whose imidation ratio and surface resistivity thereof are different from those of this polyimide endless belt base material on the polyimide endless belt material.

In the description above an exemplary embodiment containing a conductive agent in a belt is explained however the exemplary embodiment is not limited to this and exemplary embodiments containing no conductive agent may also be permissible. Belts thus containing no conductive agent may be used in various applications such as delivery belts and fixing belts in image forming apparatuses of electrophotography mode such as electrophotography copying machines laser beam printers facsimiles and composite devices thereof.

The image forming apparatus according to the second exemplary embodiment has photoreceptor drums BK Y M and C as shown in and in rotation along arrow A direction electrostatic latent images corresponding to image information are formed on the surfaces of the drums by a known electrophotography process not shown .

Around the photoreceptor drums BK Y M and C developing devices to corresponding to colors of black BK yellow Y magenta M and cyan C respectively are provided and the electrostatic latent images formed on the photoreceptor drums BK Y M and C are developed by respective developing devices to to form toner images. Therefore for example an electrostatic latent image formed on the photoreceptor drum Y corresponds to yellow image information and this electrostatic latent image is developed by the developing device including yellow Y toner and a yellow toner image is formed on the photoreceptor drum Y.

An intermediate transfer body is an intermediate transfer belt in the form of belt so arranged as to get into contact with the surfaces of the photoreceptor drums BK Y M and C and mounted under tension on several rolls to and rotates along an arrow B direction.

As the intermediate transfer body a polyimide endless belt according to the first exemplary embodiment described already is applied.

Un fixed toner images formed on the above mentioned photoreceptor drums BK Y M and C are transferred onto the surface of the intermediate transfer body sequentially from the photoreceptor drums BK Y M and C at respective primary transferring positions at which the photoreceptor drums BK Y M and C are in contact with the intermediate transfer body so that respective colors overlap.

At the primary transferring positions corona discharging devices to which prevent charging on contact regions before transfer by shielding members to for preventing action of transfer electric field on unnecessary regions of the intermediate transfer body are mounted on the rear surface side of the intermediate transfer body and by applying voltage having polarity opposite to charging polarity of the toner on the corona discharging device to the un fixed toner images on the photoreceptor drums BK Y M and C are electrostatically attracted to the intermediate transfer body . As this primary transferring unit not only corona discharging devices but also conductive rolls and conductive brushed applied with voltage may be used providing electrostatic force is utilized.

The un fixed toner image thus primarily transferred to the intermediate transfer body is transferred to a secondary transfer position facing a transfer route of a recording medium by rotation of the intermediate transfer body . At the secondary transfer position a secondary transferring roll and a backface roll in contact with the rear surface side of the intermediate transfer body are placed sandwiching the intermediate transfer body .

The recording medium delivered from a paper feeding part at predetermined timing by a feeding roller is inserted and passed through between the secondary transferring roll and the intermediate transfer body . In this operation voltage is applied between the above mentioned secondary transferring roll and roll and the un fixed toner image maintained on the intermediate transfer body is transferred onto the recording medium at the above mentioned secondary transfer position.

The recording medium carrying thereon the transferred un fixed toner image is peeled from the intermediate transfer body and fed by a delivery belt into between a heating roll and a pressing roll of a fixing device having the heating roll and pressing roll provided in facing positions and a fixation treatment of the un fixed toner image is performed. In this case an apparatus constitution having simultaneous transfer and fixation processes by which a secondary transfer process and a fixation process are conducted simultaneously is also possible.

For the intermediate transfer body a belt cleaning apparatus is provided. This cleaning apparatus is placed so that it may get into contact with and disengage from the intermediate transfer body and is spaced from the intermediate transfer body until secondary transfer is performed.

The constitution of the image forming apparatus according to this exemplary embodiment is not limited to the above mentioned exemplary embodiment and example image forming apparatuses having if necessary known units such as an image holding member a charging units for charging the surface of an image holding member an exposing units for exposing the surface of the image holding member to form an electrostatic latent image a developing units for developing the latent image formed on the surface of the image holding member with a developer to form a toner image a transfer units for transferring the toner image on a transferring material a fixing units for fixing the toner image on the transferring material a cleaning units for removing the toner and trashes adhered to the image holding member and a charge removing units for removing the electrostatic latent image remaining on the surface of the image holding member are permissible.

In the image forming apparatus of this constitution an endless belt according to the first exemplary embodiment may be applied according to the constitution of the image forming apparatus as a belt to be used for a transferring units of secondary transfer mode utilizing an intermediate transfer belt or as a belt to be used for a fixing units of belt mode utilizing a fixing belt.

Here one example of apparatus constitutions is shown in which an endless belt of the first exemplary embodiment is applied to a fixing belt in a fixing units of belt mode.

For example a constitution is mentioned using an image fixing apparatus having at least one or more driving members an endless belt fixing belt which is driven rotatable by the one or more driving members and a pressing member in which the surface of any one driving member of the one or more driving members and the outer circumference surface of the endless belt form a press contact part by the pressing member which is placed in contact with the inner circumference surface of the endless belt and press the outer circumference surface of the endless belt toward the surface of the driving member and an un fixed toner image is fixed on the surface of the recording medium by passing the recording medium keeping thereon the un fixed toner image through the press contact part while heating wherein an endless belt of the first exemplary embodiment is used as the endless belt.

The fixing means may have other constitutions and functions if necessary in addition to the above described constitutions and functions and for example a lubricant may be applied on the inner circumference surface of an endless belt. As the lubricant known lubricants in the form of liquid for example silicone oil and the like may be used. The lubricant may be applied continuously via a felt and the like provided in contact with the inner circumference surface of an endless belt.

It is preferable that the fixing units may control pressure distribution along the axis direction of an endless belt at a press contact part by the pressing member. For example when a lubricant is used the existing condition of the lubricant applied on the inner circumference surface may be arbitrarily controlled such as pushing the lubricant toward one edge of an endless belt and collecting the lubricant at the center part by regulating the pressure distribution. As a result it is possible for example that excess lubricant is collected to one edge of an endless belt and recovered and that the lubricant is allowed to move to the center part of an endless belt thereby preventing pollution in the apparatus due to leakage of the lubricant from the edge of an endless belt.

This control of pressure distribution is particularly useful when a lubricant is used and further when irregular roughness in the form of streak is imparted to the inner circumference surface of an endless belt to be used. In this case control of the existing condition of the lubricant applied on the inner circumference surface becomes easier by regulating the pressure distribution at a press contact part in view of also the direction of a streak of the irregular roughness in the form of streak.

The image forming apparatus according to the third exemplary embodiment has units Y M C and Bk a recording paper transferring body delivery belt transfer delivery belt transferring rolls Y M C and Bk a recording paper delivery roll and a fixing units as shown in . As this recording paper transferring body delivery belt an endless belt according to the first exemplary embodiment is used.

In the units Y M C and Bk photoreceptor drums Y M C and Bk as image holding members are provided in rotatable fashion with predetermined peripheral velocity along the arrow clockwise direction. Around the photoreceptor drums Y M C and Bk placed are charging units Y M C and Bk exposing units Y M C and Bk developing units of respective colors yellow developing unit Y magenta developing unit M cyan developing unit C black developing unit Bk and photoreceptor cleaners Y M C and Bk respectively.

The units Y M C and Bk are placed in parallel against the recording paper delivery belt in the order of units Y M C and Bk however proper orders may be set depending on the image formation method such as an order of units Bk Y C and M.

The recording paper delivery belt is rotatable at the same peripheral velocity as the photoreceptor drums Y M C and Bk along arrowed counterclockwise direction by supporting rolls and and parts of the recording paper delivery belt situated at intermediate positions between the supporting rolls and are placed so as to come into contact with the photoreceptor drums Y M C and Bk respectively. The recording paper delivery belt is provided with a belt cleaning apparatus .

Transferring rolls Y M C and Bk are placed at positions which are inside of the recording paper delivery belt and face portions of contact between the recording paper delivery belt and the transferring rolls Y M C and Bk respectively. Transfer regions for transferring toner images to recording paper transferring material P via the recording paper delivery belt are formed between the photoreceptor drums Y M C and Bk and the transferring rolls Y M C and Bk.

A fixing device is so placed that the recording paper P is delivered to the fixing device after passing through respective transferring regions between the recording paper delivery belt and the photoreceptor drums Y M C and Bk.

The recording paper P is delivered to the recording paper delivery belt by a recording paper delivery roll .

In the unit Y the photoreceptor drum Y is driven to rotate. A charging unit Y is driven in conjunction with the photoreceptor drum Y thereby charging the surface of the photoreceptor drum Y with predetermined polarity and potential. The photoreceptor drum Y having the charged surface is then exposed in image like fashion by the exposing unit Y to form an electrostatic latent image on its surface.

Subsequently the electrostatic latent image is developed by the yellow developing unit Y. Then a toner image is formed on the surface of the photoreceptor drum Y. The toner may be a one component system or a two component system and in this exemplary embodiment it is a two component system.

The recording paper P is electrostatically adsorbed onto the recording paper delivery belt and delivered to the transferring region and the recording paper P passes through the transferring region formed between the photoreceptor drum Y and the transferring roll Y and the toner image is transferred sequentially onto the outer circumference surface of the recording paper P by electric field formed by transfer bias applied from the transferring roll Y.

Thereafter the toner remaining on the photoreceptor drum Y is cleaned and removed by the photoreceptor drum cleaner Y. The photoreceptor drum Y is subjected to the subsequent transferring cycle.

The recording paper P onto which toner images have been transferred by the transferring rolls Y M C and Bk is further delivered to the fixing device and fixation is performed. By the above described procedure a desired image is formed on the recording paper.

In the third exemplary embodiment an endless belt in the first exemplary embodiment is used as the transfer delivery belt and a delivering body such as recording paper is delivered however the exemplary embodiment is not limited to delivery of recording paper and the endless belt may be applied to delivery also of delivering bodies other than recording paper for example media made of plastic for example OHP sheet and the like cards plates and the like.

In the description above an exemplary embodiment of applying an endless belt according to the first exemplary embodiment to a belt member intermediate transfer belt transfer delivery belt and the like for image forming apparatuses is mentioned. However the exemplary embodiment is not limited to this and for example it is also possible to apply an endless belt according to the first exemplary embodiment to the belt in a transferring apparatus having the belt for delivering a delivering body such as for example a sheet.

All publications patent applications and technical standards mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent application or technical standard was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The invention will be illustrated by the following examples however the invention is not limited to these examples at all.

In a flask equipped with a stirring rod thermometer and dropping funnel 1977.6 g of N methyl 2 pyrrolidone hereinafter abbreviated as NMP in some cases is poured while passing a nitrogen gas dried over phosphorus pentaoxide. The liquid temperature is raised up to 60 C. then 200.2 g 1.0 mol of 4 4 diaminodiphenyl ether is added to cause dissolution. After confirmation of dissolution 294.2 g 1.0 mol of 3 3 4 4 biphenyltetracarboxylic dianhydride is added while maintaining the solution temperature at 60 C. and the mixture is dissolved by stirring. After confirmation of dissolution of the tetracarboxylic dianhydride stirring is further continued while maintaining at 60 C. to carry out a polymerization reaction of a polyamic acid. The reaction is performed for 24 hours to obtain a polyamic acid solution PAA 1 having a solid content of 20 by weight.

Into 500 g of the polyamic acid solution PAA 1 0.5 g of polyvinyl 2 pyrrolidone manufactured by BASF Japan Ltd. Luvitec K17 hereinafter abbreviated as PVP in some cases as a nonionic polymer is added to cause dissolution. 25.0 g of oxidation treated carbon black SPECIAL BLACK 4 manufactured by Degussa pH 4.0 volatile content 14.0 hereinafter abbreviated as CB in some cases as a dried conductive agent is added and the mixture is treated in a ball mill for 6 hours to cause dispersion of carbon black to obtain a CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 1 . Its composition is shown below.

A CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 2 is obtained in the same manner as for preparation of the CB dispersed polyamic acid solution A 1 excepting the CB amount is changed. Its composition is shown below.

A CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 3 is obtained in the same manner as for preparation of the CB dispersed polyamic acid solution A 1 excepting the CB amount is changed. Its composition is shown below.

The above mentioned CB dispersed polyamic acid solution A 1 is applied uniformly on the outer surface of a cylindrical SUS metal mold having an outer diameter of 90 mm and a length of 450 mm. A fluorine based releasing agent is previously applied on the surface of this cylindrical metal mold to improve releasability after belt formation.

Next a drying treatment is conducted for 30 minutes at a temperature of 120 C. while the metal mold is rotated. After the drying treatment a calcination treatment is conducted for about 30 minutes at a temperature of 300 C. in a clean oven to progress an imidation reaction. Thereafter the metal mold is allowed to cool at room temperature and a resin is removed from the metal mold to obtain an intended polyimide endless belt base material B 1 .

The resulting polyimide endless belt base material B 1 is mounted on the outer surface of a cylindrical resin pipe having an outer diameter of 90 mm. For preventing invasion of treating liquid from the edge of the belt the belt edge is pasted with a tape to the cylindrical resin pipe. The polyimide endless belt base material B 1 and the cylindrical resin pipe are immersed in a sodium hydroxide aqueous solution sodium hydroxide aqueous solution prepared by compounding 5 parts by weight of sodium hydroxide in 100 parts by weight of water heated at 70 C. A hydrolysis treatment is performed for 30 minutes then the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 and the cylindrical resin pipe are taken from the sodium hydroxide aqueous solution and washed with pure water. Thereafter the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 and the cylindrical resin pipe are immersed in a hydrochloric acid aqueous solution hydrochloric acid aqueous solution prepared by compounding 5 parts by weight of hydrogen chloride in 100 parts by weight of water and treated at 25 C. for 30 minutes. They are taken out from the hydrochloric acid aqueous solution and washed with pure water. The belt is detached from the cylindrical resin pipe then dried for 30 minutes in a drying machine at 120 C. to obtain an intended polyimide endless belt C 1 .

The resulting polyimide endless belt C 1 is subjected to the following evaluations. The results are shown in Table 1. Additionally the molecular structures of a tetracarboxylic acid residue and a diamine compound residue constituting a polyimide resin at the outer circumference surface and the inner circumference surface and the composition ratio of the tetracarboxylic acid residue to the diamine compound residue are measured according to the above descriptions to find that they are identical. Also for polyimide endless belts C 2 to C 6 described later the same result is obtained.

For measurement of belt thickness an eddy current mode thickness meter CTR 1500E manufactured by SANKO ELECTRONIC LABORATORY CO. LTD is used and measurement is repeated 5 times for the same sample and the average value thereof is used as belt thickness.

As a result the thicknesses of the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 before hydrolysis and the polyimide endless belt C 1 after hydrolysis are 80 5 m and 80 5 m respectively that is the same value.

From the resultant polyimide endless belt ten test specimens of 150 mm 15 mm are prepared. The belt thickness is adjusted to 80 m by variously controlling conditions in coating.

According to JIS C5016 the number of reciprocating bending times until breakage of the test specimen is measured. The average value of the results of the ten test specimens is used as the evaluation result of bend resistance. As the measurement machine a MIT knead fatigue resistance tester MIT DA manufactured by Toyo Seiki Seisaku Sho Ltd. is used.

As a result the evaluation result of bend resistance is 4500 times. The polyimide endless belt C 1 after hydrolysis has sufficient strength and flexibility which may be used without problems for a belt application.

On the resulting polyimide endless belt a voltage of 100 V is applied under 22 C. 55 RH environments using a cylindrical electrode UR probe of HIRESTA IP manufactured by Mitsubishi Petrochemical Co. Ltd. cylindrical electrode C has an outer diameter of 16 mm ring shaped electrode part D has an inner diameter of 30 mm and an outer diameter of 40 mm and the current value after 10 seconds is measured using R8340A manufactured by Advantest Corporation and the surface resistivity s of belt outer surface rear surface are calculated from the current value and from this value a common logarithm value log s log of the surface resistivity is calculated.

Specifically the surface resistivity may be measured according to JIS K6911 1995 using the above mentioned cylindrical electrode as an electrode for measurement.

The method for measuring surface resistivity is described using drawings. is a schematic plan view of a cylindrical electrode and is a schematic sectional view thereof. The cylindrical electrode shown in and has a first voltage application electrode A and a plate insulator B. The first voltage application electrode A has a cylindrical electrode part C and a cylindrical ring shaped electrode D having an inner diameter larger than the outer diameter of the cylindrical electrode C and surrounding the cylindrical electrode part C with constant clearance. A belt T is sandwiched between the plate insulator B and the cylindrical electrode C and the ring shaped electrode D of the first voltage application electrode A and voltage V V is applied between the cylindrical electrode C and the ring shaped electrode D of the first voltage application electrode A and current I A flowing in this operation is measured and the surface resistivity s of the belt T may be calculated by the following formula 1 .

Here in the following formula 1 d mm represents the outer diameter of the cylindrical electrode C and D mm represents the inner diameter of the ring shaped electrode D and represents circular constant.

In measurement of surface resistivity current I A is measured 10 seconds after application of voltage V V . Formula 1 

As a result s of the outer circumference surface on which a hydrolysis treatment is applied of the polyimide endless belt C 1 is lower than that of the un treated surface.

The imidation ratio of a polyimide endless belt is measured by infrared absorption spectrum measurement of a polyimide resin. As the measurement apparatus microscope FT IR FT 530 manufactured by Horiba Ltd. is used and measurement is effected by reflected light spectrum of a belt sample.

In the case a polyimide resin composed of 3 3 4 4 biphenyltetracarboxylic dianhydride as a tetracarboxylic anhydride and 4 4 diaminodiphenyl ether as a diamine compound the imidation ratio may be calculated by the formula 2 shown below using a ratio of the absorbance derived from a carbonyl group present in an imide group at 1780 cm Abs1780 to the absorbance of a benzene ring at 1500 cm Abs1500 as an internal standard in the measured infrared absorption spectrum. Imidation ratio Abs1780 Abs1500 100 Formula 2 

Here a polyamic acid A 1 containing no CB is applied on a glass base plate then dried at 120 C. for 30 minutes then treated at 400 C. for 1 hour to complete an imidation reaction and the ratio of the absorbance at 1780 cm Abs1780 to the absorbance at 1500 cmof thus obtained polyimide film sample is represented by K in the formula 2 K Abs1780 400 C. calcination Abs1500 400 C. calcination 0.27 . Such K value corresponds to 100 imidated substance of the corresponding polyimide resin.

Also in a polyimide resin of different chemical composition K value for the polyimide chemical composition is calculated by the absorbance derived from a benzene ring as an internal standard and the absorbance derived from an imide group then the imidation ratio under each belt production condition may be calculated in the same manner as in the previous example.

From the polyimide endless belt a test specimen of 100 mm 100 mm is cut out and the imidation ratios of both the outer circumference surface inner circumference surface are measured. Thereafter the outer surface of the polyimide endless belt is polished by No. 1000 sand paper. The thickness after polishing is measured and the imidation ratio is measured again. By repeating this operation profile of the imidation ratio along the belt depth direction is calculated. The measured values are shown in Table 1.

As a result it is confirmed in the polyimide endless belt C 1 that the imidation ratio at the outer circumference surface on which a hydrolysis treatment is performed and the imidation ratio on the non treated surface inner circumference surface are different and the imidation ratio changes increases continuously toward the depth direction thickness direction from the treated surface.

The polyimide endless belt obtained as an intermediate transfer belt is mounted on remodeled DocuCentreColor2220 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. altered to process speed 250 mm sec primary transfer current 33 A and 50 half tone of Cyan and Magenta is output at low temperature and low humidity 10 C. 15 RH on 5000 pieces of C2 paper manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. and concentration irregularity and spot defect on the 5000 th image are visually evaluated based on the following standards. The evaluation standards are as described below.

As a result the polyimide endless belt C 1 after hydrolysis shows that concentration irregularity is A level and spot defect is A level.

A polyimide endless belt base material B 2 is produced in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 excepting the CB dispersed polyamic acid solution A 1 is used and the calcination time is changed as shown in Table 1. A polyimide endless belt C 2 is obtained in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt C 1 excepting the polyimide endless belt base material B 2 is used and evaluations are conducted in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 1.

Polyimide endless belts C 3 C 4 are obtained in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt C 1 excepting the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 is used and the hydrolysis treatment times are changed as shown in Tables 1 2 respectively and evaluations are conducted in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Tables 1 to 2.

Polyimide endless belt base materials B 3 B 4 are produced in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 excepting the CB dispersed polyamic acid solutions A 2 A 3 are used respectively. Polyimide endless belts C 5 C 6 are obtained in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt C 1 excepting the polyimide endless belt base materials B 3 B 4 are used and evaluations are conducted in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 2. For the polyimide endless belt C 6 the hydrolysis treatment conditions are changed as shown in Table 2.

Polyimide endless belts C 7 C 8 are obtained in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt C 1 excepting the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 is used and the hydrolysis treatment conditions are changed as shown in Table 3 and evaluations are conducted in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 3.

A polyimide endless belt base material B 8 is produced in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 excepting the above mentioned CB dispersed polyamic acid solution A 1 is used and the thickness is 50 m.

Further the CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 1 is coated on its surface as a surface layer having a thickness of 30 m and calcined under calcination conditions shown in Table 4 to produce a laminated polyimide endless belt C 9 .

The resulting polyimide endless belt base material C 9 is subjected to the physical property evaluation in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 4.

The single layer polyimide endless belt base materials B 1 B 3 B 4 are evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 5.

A polyimide endless belt base material B 5 is produced in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 excepting the above mentioned CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 1 is used and the thickness is 60 m.

Further the CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 3 is coated on a surface of the polyimide endless belt base material B 5 as a surface layer having a thickness of 20 m to produce a laminated polyimide endless belt Y 1 .

The resulting polyimide endless belt base material B 5 and the polyimide endless belt Y 1 are subjected to the physical property evaluation in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 6.

A polyimide endless belt base material B 6 is produced in the same manner as for the polyimide endless belt base material B 1 excepting the above mentioned CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 2 is used and the thickness is 60 m.

Further the CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 1 is coated on a surface of the polyimide endless belt base material B 6 as a surface layer having a thickness of 20 m to produce a laminated polyimide endless belt Y 2 .

The resulting polyimide endless belt base material B 6 and the polyimide endless belt Y 2 are subjected to the physical property evaluation in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 6.

The CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 3 is coated on the surface of the above mentioned polyimide endless belt base material B 6 as a surface layer having a thickness of 20 m to produce a laminated polyimide endless belt Y 3 .

The resulting polyimide endless belt Y 3 is subjected to the physical property evaluation in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 6.

A cylindrical SUS metal mold having an internal diameter of 90 mm and a length of 450 mm and having an inner surface treated with a releasing agent is prepared and the CB dispersed polyamic acid composition A 1 obtained in Example 1 is applied on the inner surface uniformly.

Next the metal mold is rotated for 30 minutes at a speed of 100 rpm at room temperature to allow carbon black in the coated film to unevenly distribute on the surface outer surface by centrifugal force. Thereafter a drying treatment is conducted for 30 minutes at a temperature of 120 C. while the metal mold is rotated. After the drying treatment a calcination treatment is conducted for about 30 minutes at a temperature of 300 C. in a clean oven to progress an imidation reaction. Thereafter the metal mold is allowed to cool at room temperature and a resin is removed from the metal mold to obtain an intended polyimide endless belt base material B 7 .

The resulting polyimide endless belt base material B 7 is subjected to the physical property evaluation in the same manner as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 6.

It is found from the above mentioned results that the polyimide endless belt base materials B 1 B 3 and B 4 composed of a single layer structure have the same imidation ratio along the belt depth direction and show excellent thickness uniformity bend resistance and dependence of surface resistivity on voltage however have a tendency of deterioration of copy image quality as compared with the polyimide endless belts C 1 to C 6 .

The laminated polyimide endless belts Y 1 Y 2 and Y 3 have a result that uniformity of coating of a surface layer is not obtained and thickness uniformity is poor. In the polyimide endless belts Y 1 Y 2 and Y 3 having nonuniform thickness parts of small thickness and laminated boundary surface parts make a breaking base point and a tendency of decreasing bending times by MIT knead fatigue resistant tester MIT DA is observed. When the laminated polyimide endless belts Y 1 Y 2 or Y 3 is mounted on an electrophotography apparatus charge generated by a release discharge phenomenon occurring between belt paper in operation accumulates on a boundary face part thus a tendency is observed that both concentration irregularity and spot defect are poorer than those of the polyimide endless belts C 1 to C 6 .

In the resultant polyimide endless belt base material B 7 there is a tendency that though the surface resistivity value on the outer circumference surface is smaller as compared on the inner circumference surface in plane uniformity is poor since the amount of carbon black increases at the surface part. The surface part tends to be scratched in handling the belt which comes out as a defect in mounting on an electrophotography apparatus.

It is found from the above mentioned results that the polyimide endless belts C 1 to C 6 according to this example have a single layer structure obtained by hydrolyzing the outer circumference surface of a polyimide endless belt base material show high strength as a belt have predetermined resistivity as an intermediate transfer belt and have both reduced concentration irregularity and reduced spot defect when mounted on an electrophotography apparatus.

Therefore it is understood that when the polyimide endless belt of this example is used as an intermediate transfer belt charge generated by a release discharge phenomenon occurring between belt paper in operation may be eliminated quickly. Thus it is understood that deterioration of belt properties with the lapse of time generated by repetition of the release discharge phenomenon may be suppressed and an excellent printing image quality is obtained. Further it is understood that by preventing accumulation of static charge on the belt surface adhesion of dust and the like may be suppressed thereby preventing printing troubles and an excellent copy image quality including no defects may be manifested.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments of the present invention has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not limited to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. The exemplary embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments and with the various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

