---

title: Broadcast viewing system
abstract: In a broadcast viewing system including a television receiver A and a recording/reproducing device B, the television receiver A and the recording/reproducing device B are connected by an HDMI cable. By using a remote control device C on the recording/reproducing device B side, a setting data required for viewing a broadcast is requested by using a control signal from the recording/reproducing device B side, and subsequently, the television receiver A replies with the setting data required for viewing a broadcast to the recording/reproducing device B by a control signal by using data required for viewing a broadcast set in the television receiver A side in advance through the HDMI cable. This simplifies the operation of setting for viewing a television program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08384831&OS=08384831&RS=08384831
owner: Sharp Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08384831
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070514
---
The present invention relates to a broadcast viewing system and particularly relates to a broadcast viewing system including a digital broadcast receiver and a recording reproducing device.

As the newest standard with general versatility for connecting a plurality of digital household electric appliances the HDMI standard has been defined. In the HDMI standard CEC Consumer Electronics Control protocol is used. By using the CEC protocol coordination of the devices connected by the HDMI cables is designed.

Table 1 shows examples of CEC commands and the CEC commands are broadly divided into a common code which is provided for keeping general versatility and is common without depending on each appliance or vender and a unique code unique to a vender for allowing the degree of freedom which the vender can uniquely define.

For example a digital broadcast receiver TV and a recording reproducing device recorder are connected with the HDMI cable and by using the CEC protocol command reservation of the recorder can be made by an operation from the digital broadcast receiver side.

Table 2 is a table showing necessary setting items for viewing broadcasts. Setting relating to an area such as an area code and a prefecture code and individual setting of a terrestrial analog broadcast channel and individual setting of a digital broadcast channel in accordance with necessity are performed.

Individual setting of the terrestrial analog broadcast channel includes a channel for selecting a station for example when pressing a key of 1 of a remote control for example any one of 1 62 and C13 C63 a channel displaying when pressing the key of 1 of the remote control for example any one of 1 62 and C13 C63 whether or not the channel corresponding to the 1 key of the remote control and has no program is skipped when pressing an up down station selection key and fine tune data of frequency used for station selection when pressing the key of 1 of the remote control.

Individual setting of a digital broadcast BS CS110 degrees terrestrial digital channel includes whether the service of selecting a station when pressing the key of 1 of the remote control for example is assigned or not and the service ID for selecting a station when pressing the 1 key of the remote control when it is assigned. These are the information necessary for viewing an analog broadcast and a digital broadcast. By setting these items in the devices processing of viewing of a broadcast and the like is made possible.

However each of the products which have been announced up to now has the problem of requiring to make similar settings in the setting items for viewing as shown in Table 2 by using a remote control Z and a remote control W for both a liquid crystal television and a DVD recorder when a digital broadcast receiver X such as a liquid crystal television for example and a recording reproducing device Y such as a DVD recorder are connected with the HDMI cable as shown in and a program is viewed.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a broadcast viewing system including a first device and a second device which are capable of two way communication characterized in that a request signal for setting data required for viewing a broadcast from the aforesaid second device is received and when data corresponding to the requested data is set in a memory of the aforesaid first device control of sending the aforesaid data set in the aforesaid memory to the aforesaid second device from the first device is conducted.

Further there is provided a broadcast viewing system including a first device and a second device which are connected based on the HDMI standard characterized in that a request signal for setting data required for viewing a broadcast from the aforesaid second device is received and when data corresponding to the requested data is set in a memory of the aforesaid first device control of sending the aforesaid data set in the aforesaid memory to the aforesaid second device from the first device is conducted.

According to the above described broadcast viewing system when the second device makes request for receiving the data required for viewing a broadcast from the first device of the connection destination the data corresponding to the request is transferred from the first device and is stored in the second device.

It is preferable to include a remote control device which is used for the aforesaid second device and has a request button for the setting data required for viewing for sending the request signal for the setting data required for viewing a broadcast to the aforesaid first device. By only the operation of one request button of the remote control device data setting operation for viewing in the second device can be started. The button may be provided in the remote control device on the first device side.

The setting data required for viewing the broadcast set in the aforesaid memory can include at least any one of data relating to an area and data relating to individual setting of a channel of a broadcast. By setting these data basic setting relating to viewing of the broadcast can be made.

It is preferable that as the aforesaid data relating to individual setting of the channel of the broadcast a channel individual setting situation list including assignment setting of the channel to the aforesaid remote control key is created and is stored in the aforesaid memory. It is preferable that a flag concerning whether or not user setting is made to the aforesaid remote control key is capable of being set in the aforesaid channel individual setting situation list.

For example in the case of an analog broadcast the number of channels and the number of number buttons 1 to 12 of the remote control key are substantially the same and therefore different channels can be respectively assigned to the remote control key. At this time by adding a flag for discriminating whether user setting is made or not to each of number buttons a mark for need of data transfer is provided at the time of data transfer. Specifically based on the setting of the aforesaid flag out of data stored in the aforesaid memory only the aforesaid remote control key with the user setting being made is selected and the data can be sent.

Combination of the aforesaid remote control key and a service ID corresponding to the channel of the broadcast may be capable of being set in the aforesaid channel individual setting situation list. For example since the number of channels is large in the case of a digital broadcast it is preferable to make it possible to set as the combination of the remote control key and the service IDs corresponding to the channels of a broadcast. It is preferable to make it possible to select the service ID by operation from the remote control at the time of data request. A flag concerning whether user setting is made or not to the combination of the aforesaid remote control key and the aforesaid service ID is capable of being set in the aforesaid channel individual setting situation list.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a first device in a broadcast viewing system including the first device and a second device which are connected based on the HDMI standard characterized in that a request signal for setting data required for viewing a broadcast from the aforesaid second device is received and when data corresponding to the requested data is set in a memory control of sending the aforesaid data set in the aforesaid memory to the aforesaid second device is conducted. Further there is provided a second device in a broadcast viewing system including a first device and the second device which are connected based on the HDMI standard characterized in that a request signal for setting data required for viewing a broadcast is sent to the aforesaid first device and when data corresponding to the requested data is set in a memory of the aforesaid first device control of receiving the aforesaid data set in the memory and setting the aforesaid data in a memory of itself is conducted.

Further the present invention may be a broadcast viewing system including a television receiver and a recording reproducing device which are connected based on the HDMI standard characterized in that a request signal for setting data from either of the aforesaid television receiver or the aforesaid recording reproducing device is received and when data corresponding to the requested data is set in a memory in a device of a request destination control of sending the aforesaid data which is set to a device of a request source from the device of the request destination is conducted. It is preferable that by selecting a channel setting copy function from HDMI control function selection and pressing a decision button on a menu screen of the aforesaid television receiver data transfer processing based on a channel individual setting situation setting list is started.

According to the present invention the setting operation for viewing can be simplified. Further by providing the set flags the data size at the time of transfer can be reduced.

A . . . digital broadcast receiver B . . . DVD recorder . . . antenna . . . digital broadcast receiving part . . . HDMI interface part . . . HDMI signal processing part . . . decoder . . . remote control photoreceptor . . . control part CPU . . . storage part . . . speaker . . . display . . . audio signal processing part . . . video signal processing part . . . antenna . . . digital tuner . . . HDMI signal processing part . . . control part . . . remote control photoreceptor . . . storage part HDD . . . HDMI interface part . . . electronic program table acquiring part . . . optical disk drive part . . . operation part

Hereinafter a broadcast viewing system according to an embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to the drawings with an example of a system based on the HDMI standard. is a diagram showing one configuration example of a broadcast viewing system according to the present embodiment. is a functional block diagram showing one configuration example of a liquid crystal television device hereinafter called digital broadcast receiver capable of receiving a digital broadcast which is an example of a connection source electronic device of the system shown in . is a functional block diagram showing one configuration example of a DVD recorder recording reproducing device which is one example of a connection destination electronic device of the system shown in .

The above described Table 1 shows examples of the CEC command code . As shown in Table 1 the CEC commands include common codes in the HDMI standard and the unique code which is unique to a vender. Here the vender unique codes include the codes relating to transfer of menu setting program information a special remote control key detailed error information and the like. More specifically the reservation function of the recorder allows setting with the degree of freedom by a vender.

As shown in a digital broadcast receiver A has an antenna a digital broadcast receiving part including a tuner of a digital broadcast an HDMI interface part an HDMI signal processing part a decoder a remote control photoreceptor an audio signal processing part which performs processing of an audio signal a speaker which outputs sound based on the audio signal after processing a video signal processing part which performs processing a video signal a display which outputs video based on the video signal after processing a control part CPU which controls each of these function blocks through a bus line and a storage part which stores a program for performing the following processing and the other information.

As shown in a DVD recorder B has an antenna a digital tuner an HDMI signal processing part a control part a remote control photoreceptor a storage part HDD an HDMI interface part an electronic program table acquiring part an optical disk drive part such as a DVD and an operation part .

As a mode different from the mode in the setting data is requested by using a control signal from the television receiver A side by using the remote control device on the television receiver A side and subsequently the recording reproducing device B can also reply with the setting data by the control signal by using the data set in the recording reproducing device B side in advance through the HDMI cable to the television receiver A. It is preferable to make both the methods possible.

Hereinafter the content of the processing of channel setting will be described more concretely. The contents of these tables are stored in for example the storage part and the storage part .

Table 3 is the channel individual setting of the terrestrial analogue broadcast and is the table showing an example of the setting content in the television receiver side for example. In the example shown in Table 3 when the remote control keys are 1 to 12 the station selection channels 1 to 62 C13 to 63 the display channels 1 to 62 C13 to 63 the skip setting skip or not skip fine tune data fine tune of frequency and set flag unset or set 0 or 1 may be suitable which are assigned to the respective remote control keys to are set by setting by a user or automatic setting.

Table 4 is the table showing an example of the channel individual setting situation list of the terrestrial analog broadcast. Here how the setting is made on the television receiver side is shown. As shown in Table 4 whether the default value or already set is shown with respect to the remote control keys to as the setting situation. By tabling the setting situation like this it can be easily discriminated whether setting is made at the television receiver side or the one of the default value when a request is sent from the recording reproducing device side. When the request of transfer of the setting data is sent from the recording reproducing side the data size to be transferred can be made small by transferring only the set items. Alternatively by limiting the request from the recording reproducing device side to the request corresponding to the remote control key which is already set by sending the data shown in Table 4 to the recording reproducing device side the communication amount can be made small and the time required for communication can be made short.

Table 5 is the table of the digital broadcast BS CS110 degrees terrestrial digital channel individual setting and the table corresponding to Table 3. Table 6 is the digital broadcast BS CS110 degrees terrestrial digital channel individual setting situation list and is the table corresponding to Table 4. Table 5 shows an example of BS as the network classification but the table also includes similar data about CS and terrestrial digital. Tables 5 and 6 are the similar tables to Tables 3 and 4 and therefore explanation of them will be omitted.

Next the flow of the processing in the setting situation shown in these tables will be described with reference to the drawings. are flowcharts showing the flow of the processing seen from the television receiver side. For example when in the menu display screen of the television the channel setting copy function is selected in the HDMI control function selection and a decision button is pressed the following processing is started.

The processing is started in step S and in step S it is determined whether or not a request comes from the recording reproducing device side to the television receiver for example. When the request comes YES the flow goes to step S and it is asked whether or not the request is area code setting and the television receiver replies with area code setting to the recording reproducing device step S . In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether the request is prefecture code setting. When the request is the prefecture code Yes the television receiver replies with the prefecture code setting to the recording reproducing device in step S.

In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether the request is zip code setting. When the request is the zip code setting Yes the television receiver replies with the zip code setting to the recording reproducing device in step S. In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether the request is area identification setting. When the request is the area identification setting Yes the television receiver replies with the area identification setting to the recording reproducing device in step S. After the reply the flow returns to step S. The same will apply hereinafter.

Next in the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether the request is terrestrial analog broadcast channel individual setting relating to a remote control key X . When the request is the terrestrial analog broadcast channel individual setting Yes the television receiver replies with the terrestrial analog broadcast channel individual setting to the recording reproducing device in step S. In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether the request is BS digital broadcast channel individual setting relating to the remote control key X . When the request is the BS digital broadcast channel individual setting Yes the television receiver replies with the BS digital broadcast channel individual setting to the recording reproducing device in step S.

Next in the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether the request is CS110 degrees digital broadcast channel individual setting relating to the remote control key X . When the request is the CS110 degrees digital broadcast channel individual setting Yes the television receiver replies with the CS110 degrees digital broadcast channel individual setting to the recording reproducing device in step S. In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether the request is terrestrial digital broadcast channel individual setting relating to the remote control key X . When the request is the terrestrial digital broadcast channel individual setting Yes the television receiver replies with the terrestrial digital broadcast channel individual setting to the recording reproducing device.

In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether or not the request is terrestrial analog broadcast channel individual setting situation list. When the request is the terrestrial analog broadcast channel individual setting situation list Yes the television receiver replies with the terrestrial analogue broadcast channel individual setting situation list to the recording reproducing device. In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether or not the request is BS broadcast channel individual setting situation list. When the request is the BS broadcast channel individual setting situation list Yes the television receiver replies with the BS broadcast channel individual setting list to the recording reproducing device in step S.

In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether or not the request is a CS110 degrees digital broadcast channel individual setting situation list. When the request is the CS110 degrees digital broadcast channel individual setting situation list Yes the television device replies with the CS110 degrees digital broadcast channel individual setting situation list to the recording reproducing device in step S. In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and it is determined whether or not the request is a terrestrial digital broadcast channel individual setting situation list. When tlie request is the terrestrial digital broadcast channel individual setting situation list Yes the television receiver replies with the terrestrial digital broadcast channel individual setting situation list to the recording reproducing device. In the case of NO in step S the flow goes to step S and reply with an error indicating that the reply to the request is undefined.

As described above according to the present embodiment the television receiver receives the request from the recording reproducing device and makes the reply based on the contents described based on the above described tables whereby the setting on the television receiver side can be reflected on the recording reproducing device side.

