---

title: Print system including image-forming apparatus for providing workflow
abstract: An image-forming apparatus is capable of communicating with a server apparatus for performing a workflow. The image-forming apparatus includes a receiving unit configured to receive definition information of a flow defined in a workflow from the server apparatus and a control unit configured to control display of a screen of the image-forming apparatus based on the flow definition information received by the receiving unit. The image-forming apparatus further includes a notification unit configured to notify the server apparatus of a completion of the flow by the image-forming apparatus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08441665&OS=08441665&RS=08441665
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08441665
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20071205
---
The present invention relates to a print system including an image forming apparatus e.g. multi function product .

In recent years various kinds of workflow systems have been proposed and put into practical use for the purpose of automating business processing clarifying business processing procedures and facilitating storing monitoring browsing of business processing results. In some of these systems a workflow system is constructed in an application server and a user performs business processing in the workflow system via a client using a PC.

On the other hand an application execution environment typified by a Java registered trademark environment may be implemented in MFPs Multi Function Products . If a program that operates in such an environment is developed it is possible to generate an application using functions provided by an MFP. For example it is possible to generate an application utilizing functions such as scanning printing and sending receiving of faxes which are functions provided by the MFP. Furthermore it is also possible to generate an application with which system coordination is performed by communicating with a server via a network.

According to Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2006 053891 a system has been proposed in which processing can be progressed using the operation unit of an MFP in accordance with a workflow system for managing operation steps of an operator in a centralized copy room and a print center. In this proposal one job copy job scan job print job bookbinding job etc. of an MFP is linked with a corresponding step of a workflow. This is a feature in a POD Print On Demand workflow and is suitable for a workflow system to perform progress management of operations performed by the MFP one by one.

However in the above described example of the related art one step of the workflow is linked with one job of the MFP. For this reason only the processing screen of a certain job can be shown on the operation unit screen of the MFP. Furthermore since the example of the related art has little power of expression it is not possible to provide to a user an operation screen that gives guidance regarding a complex operation flow involving a plurality of steps. As a result the following problems arise.

A first problem is that operation using a plurality of functions of an MFP which is an image forming apparatus may not be realized in cooperation with a workflow system provided by a server apparatus. For example there may be a case in which in one step a subflow is started a user prints a document and the print result is faxed by the user.

A second problem is that the display screen transition of the MFP may not be set in cooperation with a workflow system provided by a server apparatus. For example a case is assumed in which in one step a user starts a subflow in order to perform a scan process. A certain user may demand a screen transition such as a scan instruction screen a preview screen and a transmission completion screen. On the other hand another user may demand a screen transition such as a scan instruction screen and a transmission completion screen. Regeneration of an application of the MFP for each demand of the user can take time and effort and lead to increased cost which is undesirable.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to an image forming apparatus capable of communicating with a server apparatus for performing a specific workflow. The image forming apparatus includes a receiving unit configured to receive definition information of a flow defined in a workflow from the server apparatus a control unit configured to control display of a screen of the image forming apparatus based on the definition information of the flow received by the receiving unit and a notification unit configured to notify the server apparatus of a completion of the flow by the image forming apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference characters designate the same or similar parts throughout thereof.

Embodiments of the present invention will be described below in detail with reference to the attached drawings.

In reference numeral denotes a multi function product hereinafter abbreviated as an MFP . Reference numeral denotes a network that mediates communication among devices. Reference numeral denotes a server computer used as an application server or the like. Reference numeral denotes a personal computer hereinafter abbreviated as a PC used as a client or the like. Reference numeral denotes a gateway device used when connection with an intranet the Internet or the like is to be made. The segment of the network in which each device described herein is located is not particularly limited. As long as communication among devices is possible even in any arrangement topology the present system can be implemented.

A controller unit centrally controls the fixing unit the paper discharging unit the finishing unit and the scanner unit. The controller unit also controls the reception of a network interface . A NET is a network communication path that corresponds to the network in . In a memory unit various kinds of programs including an application are stored and a program is read and executed by the controller unit . Furthermore flow definition information containing screen transition information can also be stored in the memory unit . In an embodiment the memory unit is formed as a memory map shown in to be described later .

The application server stores screen transition information which is an example of flow definition information in the HDD . Information stored in the HDD is transmitted as necessary to the MFP via the network interface unit by using the CPU . The CPU executes a program. A Web server the application server a database and a file system are stored in the HDD and these are read or executed by the CPU. Of course these may be stored in separate computers not shown and may be centrally controlled.

Reference numeral denotes a framework for an application executed in the virtual machine . Reference numeral denotes an application programming interface hereinafter abbreviated as an API provided by the framework . Reference numerals and each denote an application executed in the framework . Services that are commonly necessary function modules that are often used a library group that is necessary to control each function of an MFP by accessing the controller unit and the like are provided in advance in the framework . As a result by using the API it is possible to efficiently develop and execute an application . An application A has for example a browser function or controls a communication function with a server. The application A also interprets and displays the information of and controls the screen transition of . Furthermore the application A detects various instructions facsimile transmission printing and transmission of a file to the server input from the user interface of the application A. Then by using the API and the framework the application A calls the controller unit. As a result an API corresponding to facsimile transmission printing or transmission of a file to the server is called and the OS is controlled as necessary. In response the MFP performs facsimile transmission printing or transmission of a file to the server.

When a flow is started in response to a detection of an instruction the flow begins from draft . It is assumed that the draft process is completed by performing a predetermined input operation by a supervisor using the client PC . Then the workflow proceeds to a step of request. There is also a case in which a portion or the whole of step of request corresponding to step of a certain flow definition is desired to be processed using the MFP . It is possible for the supervisor to define the screen transition definition of the application in the MFP as a subflow definition . The subflow definition is an example of definition information. The subflow definition includes screen transition specification information denoted as and the like. On the other hand when step of order corresponding to step of a flow definition is processed using the MFP the screen transition definition of the application in the MFP is defined as a subflow definition . The subflow definition contains screen transition specification information and the like. In the subflow definition the scan functions of the MFP can be used and in the subflow definition the print functions and the facsimile functions of the MFP can be used. Combinations of screen transition can also be defined. That is in one step of a certain flow definition the use function of the application in the MFP and the screen transition can be easily changed.

Definition information such as the flow definitions and is stored in the table . Definition information such as steps and is stored in the table . Definition information such as the subflow definitions and are stored in the table . Screen transition specification information in the subflow is stored in the table . These pieces of definition information are managed by the workflow management module and are loaded when the workflow is performed and used.

On the first scan start screen it is shown that a color mode a resolution and a file format can be specified. These correspond to and in respectively and will be described in detail later.

The MFP accesses the application server in order to receive work item list information. For example when the user inputs a user ID and a password from the operation unit of the MFP these are transmitted to the application server . The application server searches the database system by using a user name as a key. As a result a list of work items corresponding to the user is obtained and is transmitted to the MFP . Then the operation unit of the MFP displays a screen denoted as . Reference numeral denotes a screen for displaying information on a list of work items awaiting processing which can be processed by the user using the MFP. Reference numeral denotes a control panel for displaying a list of work items waiting to be processed. Reference numerals and each denote a work item waiting to be processed.

A work item at the time of execution which corresponds to step of the flow definition is assumed to be the work item . A work item at the time of execution which corresponds to step of the flow definition is assumed to be the work item .

When a control button is pressed the processing of the work item is started and the screen transitions to a scan instruction screen . That is the execution screen of the screen transition specification information is denoted by . The screen transition specification information corresponds to a sub process element of the subflow definition XML . The sub process element includes a screen element a guidance element an option settings element a forward element and a backward element . The screen element specifies the screen . The guidance element specifies a guidance message . The option settings element specifies a display specification of an option setting control panel . The forward element specifies calling of a scan function specified by the function element when the control button is pressed and has a transition destination screen in the target element. That is after the control button is pressed the scan function is called and the screen transitions to the screen corresponding to the sub process element in which the id attribute has a value of 002 . Furthermore when the scan function is to be called a set value selected by the option setting control is used. The backward element has a transition destination screen when the control button is pressed in the target element. That is after the control button is pressed the screen transitions to the screen corresponding to the home .

Hereinafter in a similar manner the screen transition specification information becomes the screen at the time of execution in such a manner as to correspond to the sub process element and controls the transition destination when the control button or is pressed. The screen transition specification information becomes the screen at the time of execution in such a manner as to correspond to the sub process element and controls the transition destination when the control button is pressed.

The screens at the time of execution which correspond to the screen transition specification information and of the subflow definition are screens and respectively. As described above by only changing the subflow definition it is possible to change the screen transition of an application in the MFP and functions to be used in one step.

The application server sends back information on the list of work items to the MFP S . On the basis of the received list information the MFP displays in a list work items and for the logged in user on the screen of S . In the MFP pressing of the control buttons and of is waited for. In the MFP when the pressing of a button is detected a process is performed for selecting a work item S . Then the MFP transmits a request for obtaining a subflow definition corresponding to the selected work item to the application server S . The application server searches the tables and of for the subflow definition information corresponding to the selected work item S .

For example when the selected work item is a work item in a request step in the transportation fee request flow a search is performed in the following procedure. In the table a flow definition ID in the transportation fee request flow is 1 . In the request step a step ID is 2 . This is recognized when the control button is pressed by using a prestored workflow definition. When a search for a record in which the flow definition is 1 and the step ID is 2 is performed in the table the fact that a subflow ID is 1 is found.

When a record in which the subflow ID is true that is 1 is found in the table it is found that the subflow definition name is scan transmission . Furthermore when a record in which the subflow ID is 1 is searched for in the table three records in which the substep ID is 1 2 or 3 are found. The subflow definition information obtained from the tables and is formed as the subflow definition XML of and is sent back to the MFP S . The MFP receives the subflow definition XML parses it and obtains necessary control information S . The control information of the subflow definition represents the subflow definition of and control information necessary for the screen transition of and . On the basis of the obtained control information the MFP allows the screen to transition to application screens and of which correspond to the screens of and respectively S and S . On the application screen of when the execution of the subflow is completed the MFP transmits the notification of the subflow completion to the application server S . When the application server receives the notification of the subflow completion the application server performs a process for completing the processed work item S . As a result since a certain step is completed as a result of processing using the MFP the workflow proceeds to the next step. That is when the application server receives the subflow completion report from the MFP the application server performs the following processing. That is the flow definition information of is referred to and the state transitions to the step of approve next to the step of request . The state transition is managed by a workflow engine. When the state transitions to the approval step the owner of the work item is changed to a user such as a manager. If the button is pressed the screen changes to the screen .

With reference to it is detected in step that a subflow is started. Then preparations are made for transmitting a subflow screen in which three screen transitions of are defined from the application server to the MFP . Then when the application server detects that a work item corresponding to the subflow has been selected screen transition information in which the prepared screen transition is defined is transmitted to the MFP . An example of the flow definition information is screen transition information. In the MFP a screen is displayed. Then the screen transition information is referred to and business form data to be previewed is identified. For example business form data is received by the MFP from the database of the application server and is displayed on a panel of . The user indicates and selects panels and and performs print setting such as a color mode full color red black three colors monochrome and both sided one sided and the like. This has been defined in the screen transition information and information received from the application server is used. At this point when the pressing of the button of a print button is detected printing output is performed using the MFP by using the above described print setting. Then the screen automatically transitions to a screen . A guidance showing a technique of facsimile transmission that is described in the screen transition information in advance is displayed. Destination information is displayed together with the guidance information. The user may autograph or affix a seal on the output printing paper or fill in a predetermined form. If necessary here the presence or absence of a receipt and a voucher attached separately is described. Then the filled in printing paper and the necessary voucher are placed in the reading holder of the MFP . This destination information is confirmed and a facsimile transmission button is pressed. If a button is pressed the screen goes back to the screen . Then the printing paper placed by the user is read and a facsimile is transmitted to the destination written in the destination information contained in the screen transition information. If there are originals of vouchers and receipts they may be sent by mail to a predetermined section offline separately together with the printing paper transmitted by facsimile. When the facsimile transmission is completed it is defined in the screen transition information that the screen automatically transitions from the screen to the screen . When a button or is pressed to return to a list the MFP requests the application server to transmit a work item list screen. The MFP displays the received or already received list screen.

In accordance with an embodiment the MFP which is an image forming apparatus that communicates with the application server which is an example of a server apparatus that performs a specific workflow has been disclosed. The image forming apparatus may be an MFP a facsimile apparatus or a printer. The MFP has the network interface for receiving the flow definition information defined in a specific workflow step from the server apparatus. The controller unit controls the display of the screen of the operation unit of the image forming apparatus in accordance with the received flow definition information.

The controller unit controls the display of the screen transition in accordance with the flow definition information.

UI may be displayed and presented on the UI unit of the MFP such that the flow definition information can be edited.

The controller unit displays a control screen that is displayed as a user interface of an application that can be executed in the MFP in accordance with the flow definition information.

The controller unit displays a screen based on the definition information of the subflow in the MFP and notifies the application server of the completion of the subflow corresponding to the definition information when a specific input occurs via the screen.

By using a facsimile a printer electronic mail and the file transfer function of the MFP processing defined by the definition information of the specific subflow is performed.

The flow definition information contains information for displaying a screen for printing data and a screen for performing facsimile transmission in response to the completion of printing on the basis of an instruction given via the screen. Furthermore the notification unit may notify the completion in response to the completion of facsimile transmission .

The flow definition information contains information for displaying a screen for instructing print setting a print preview screen of data that is set via the screen and a screen of an instruction part for transmitting a previewed image to the server apparatus .

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all modifications equivalent structures and functions.

This application claims the benefit of Japanese Application No. 2006 344280 filed Dec. 21 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

