---

title: Switch circuit for magnetic-induction interface
abstract: A switch circuit is provided for conditional communication within a magnetic-induction interface, including first and second control nodes, a data input and output nodes, a parallel circuit, and first and second control nodes. The parallel circuit includes a pair of legs, each leg connecting to the data input and data output nodes. Each leg has a connector to a condition. Each control node is connected to the corresponding connector. The condition is one of the interface is connected and the interface is disconnected. The parallel circuit enables communication between the data input and output nodes only in response to the condition being that the interface is disconnected. The pair of leg includes first and second legs. The first leg includes a first MOSFET and a first diode. The first MOSFET has a first source, a first gate and a first drain. The second leg includes a second MOSFET and a second diode. The second MOSFET has a second source, a second gate and a second drain. The first and second diodes are connected to the data input node. The first and second sources are connected to the first and second diodes, respectively. The first and second gates are connected to the first and second control nodes, respectively. The first and second drains are connected to the data output node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07679423&OS=07679423&RS=07679423
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07679423
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071219
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 60 879 208 with a filing date of Dec. 21 2006 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to a switch circuit for a magnetic induction interface. In particular magnetic induction interfaces provide for data and or power transmission between devices.

Conventional switch circuits yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a switch circuit that enables communication upon disconnection with the magnetic inductance interface but not otherwise.

As such the switch circuit provides for conditional communication within a magnetic induction interface. In particular this switch circuit includes first and second control nodes a data input and output nodes a parallel circuit and first and second control nodes. The parallel circuit includes a pair of legs each leg connecting to the data input and data output nodes. Each leg has a connector to a condition. Each control node is connected to the corresponding connector.

The condition is one of the interface is connected and the interface is disconnected. The parallel circuit enables communication between the data input and output nodes only in response to the condition being that the interface is disconnected. Specifically the parallel circuit includes first and second legs. The first leg includes a first MOSFET and a first diode.

The first MOSFET has a first source a first gate and a first drain. The second leg includes a second MOSFET and a second diode. The second MOSFET has a second source a second gate and a second drain. The first and second diodes are connected to the data input node. The first and second sources are connected to the first and second diodes respectively. The first and second gates are connected to the first and second control nodes respectively. The first and second drains are connected to the data output node.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Electrical power and data can be transferred between military instruments that have an appropriate interface employing magnetic inductance. Such instruments discussed in further detail for exemplary operations may be used to serve specific functions whose information must be shared to satisfy intended objectives. Interfaces preferably enable expeditious mechanical connection and disconnection with minimal operator attention devoted to initiate communication across the instruments.

The United States Marine Corps currently employs handheld laser range finders for locating a selected target. These rangefinders use a digital magnetic compass to measure the earth s magnetic field to determine magnetic azimuth to provide a Marine the azimuth and range to the target. The rangefinder is connected to equipment that provides global positioning system GPS information e.g. a Precision Lightweight GPS Receiver PLGR referred to as a Receiver herein. The range and azimuth measurements are passed to the Receiver i.e. PLGR which calculates the target s GPS position.

The azimuth measurement accuracy for the laser range finder is about seven milliradians which provides a target position accuracy of 25 meter circular error of probability CEP at a range of five kilometers. This does not include the error from the difference between magnetic north and true north commonly quoted as being 0.5 7.7 miles earthwide. Inclusion of this error degrades target position accuracy by increasing uncertainty to 38 meter CEP at five kilometers.

Additionally the magnetic compass is susceptible to changes in the earth s magnetic field caused by deposits of metal in the earth as well as vehicles power lines water pipes etc. The Enhanced Targeting Acquisition and Location System ETALS eliminates the dependence on the Earth s magnetic field by incorporating a gyrocompass. One example of ETALS is a tripod mounted system that uses a Miniature Azimuth Gyro compassing Unit MAGU or Gyro to measure the earth s rotation thereby providing a true north measurement. This gyroscopic compass or Gyro may be shut off to conserve power after establishing the true north direction thereupon an encoder is read to measure heading.

The Leica Vector 21 identified as E10487B AN PEQ 21B is designated the Common Laser Range Finder CLRF or Rangefinder can accurately laze i.e. illuminate by laser a tank sized target at ten kilometers. This Rangefinder CLRF is available from Vectronix Inc. in Leesburg Va.

A dovetail mechanism designed to fit the Army s AN PVS 6 MiniEye Safe Laser Infrared Observation Set MELIOS rangefinder was used as an initial basis for the CLRF to MAGU interface. The subsequent dovetail mechanism has been designated the Dovetail Adaptable MAGU Interface DAMI referred to as Dovetail Adaptor herein.

Unlike MELIOS the CLRF has an ergonomic contoured bottom that complicates proper alignment with the optical axis of the Rangefinder. Hence the DAMI i.e. Dovetail Adaptor is designed to maintain the bore sight misalignment in non volatile memory and transfer this information whenever the CLRF i.e. Rangefinder attaches to the MAGU i.e. Gyro . The Dovetail Adaptor includes two circuit boards range board for the CLRF and gyro board for the MAGU and two halves of a transformer pair to inductively transfer data and power between the CLRF i.e. Rangefinder and the MAGU i.e. Gyro .

The gyro board representing the Gyro side of the Dovetail Adaptor may detect proximity of and provide power to the range board from the Gyro. The gyro board also provides the main controller of the transformer interface. The gyro board may transmit power and data signals to the range board via two separate transformers one each for communications and power. Each transformer consists of two halves with each half mounted in the Dovetail Adaptor.

Each circuit board includes a micro controller unit MCU . Each controller i.e. MCU contains an analog to digital converter ADC a digital to analog converter DAC a universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART random access memory RAM flash memory timers and a Programmable Counter Array PCA or counter. Data transfer employs a parallel resonance arrangement to minimize the power consumption. In contrast power transfer uses series resonance to maximize power transfer between the boards.

The PCA connects to a detector and a bipolar motor . The DAC and the detector connect to the amplifier for determining the presence of the Rangefinder. The PCA and the detector connect to a second amplifier which connects to a grounded parallel resistor capacitor RC circuit . The detector and the bipolar motor also connect to the RC circuit . The chip connects to an 8 pin oscillating 555 timer which is in turn connected to a third amplifier in a series RC circuit .

The range board further includes first and second devices designated U B and designated U A as well as a switch circuit . Each device represents a silicon p channel metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET . The first device connects to the chip . The second device connects in parallel to the switch circuit to a first connector RS 232 port to the CLRF i.e. Rangefinder directly. The UART and the switch circuit connect in parallel to a second connector RS 232 port for the PLGR i.e. Receiver . The power transformer connects to a power supply .

The Rangefinder connects to the RS 232 port to communicate with the Receiver. The range board contains the switch circuit to conditionally connect and disconnect data signals through the Receiver port based on connectivity with the Rangefinder port .

The switch circuit disconnects data signals through the Receiver port during attachment of the Rangefinder to an operating Gyro as the transformers provide this functionality. However the switch circuit enables the data signals to pass through the Receiver port when either the Gyro is unpowered or else the Rangefinder is detached from the Gyro. Thus the switch circuit is open when powered and closed when unpowered.

The first control node attaches to a grounded R8 resistor having 1 M . The second control node connects to reference of 7 1 volts during Rangefinder connection and 0 volt while the Rangefinder remains detached. The second control node attaches to a grounded R9 resistor having 1 M .

A gated parallel circuit is disposed between the input data node and the output data node . Each small signal device within the circuit represents a MOSFET on each leg of a connection loop between the data nodes . The first device is designated Q being a 2SK3064 silicon n channel MOSFET. The second device is designated Q being a 2SJ0536 silicon p channel MOSFET.

This gated circuit includes a first diode connected to a source S of Q and a second diode connected to a source of Q. The first and second diodes orient in directions respectively towards the data input and output nodes . The gate G for Q connects to the first control node . The gate for Q connects to the second control node . The drain D for both devices Q and Q connect together at the output data node that denotes the Receiver port . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize alternate devices besides diodes and MOSFETs for the gated circuit to accomplish the objectives described herein.

When the Rangefinder i.e. CLRF is disconnected from the Gyro i.e. MAGU the gate voltage Vfrom the control nodes to the sources of Q and Q is 0 volt or ground. The signal voltage Vlevels for standard RS 232 from the input data node is 3 volts to 25 volts for logic 0 and 3 volts to 25 volts for logic 1 with typical values being about 6 volts. The data input node from the Rangefinder provides the following relations 

Upon connecting the Rangefinder to the Gyro the range board may receive a signal through the data transformer. A half wave rectifier taps off a modest amount of power to produce a gate voltage of approximately 6 volts 6 volts for Q and 6 volts for Q. The data input node from the Rangefinder provides the following relations 

For the devices used in the switch circuit the gate voltage Vcan be 2 volts for the n channel MOSFET Q and 2 volts for the p channel MOSFET Q to insure that its gate turns on. Each of the diodes has a voltage drop of 0.410 volt on the source connection between the corresponding MOSFETs Q and Q and the input data node .

Thus as long as the input signal remains within 8.410 volts the switch circuit blocks data out to the Receiver port represented by the data output node . However if the input voltage Vdrops below the gate voltage Vby 2.410 volts or more the switch circuit does not block data to the Receiver port represented by the data output node .

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

