---

title: Audio processing system
abstract: An audio processing system controls an audio input signal. The audio processing system includes a signal analyzer that detects content information and source information corresponding to the audio input signal. The system generates an analyzed audio signal. A signal processor receives the analyzed audio signal and generates a processed audio signal based on the content information and/or source information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08019454&OS=08019454&RS=08019454
owner: Harman Becker Automotive Systems GmbH
number: 08019454
owner_city: Karlsbad
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20070430
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from European Patent Application No. 06 010674.7 filed May 23 2006 which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to audio systems. In particular this disclosure relates to a system for controlling audio signals in a vehicle.

Drivers and passengers of vehicles receive audio information from various audio source devices in the vehicle. The devices such as a navigation system may provide direct information to the occupants such as verbal navigational instructions or messages. The devices such as a radio or CD player may also provide non direct information such as music news and programming.

The driver may be overloaded with audio information and noise and may not be able to adequately distinguish important audio information from less important audio information. Important information may include the route guidance information. Less important information may include music. Such driver overload may distract to the driver and may cause the driver to miss desired or important information. Driver overload may create an unsafe or dangerous driving condition. Accordingly there is a need for an audio system that informs the vehicle occupants of the relative importance of various audio information provided by the audio source devices.

An audio processing system controls an audio input signal. The audio processing system includes a signal analyzer that detects content information and source information corresponding to the audio input signal. The system generates an analyzed audio signal. A signal processor receives the analyzed audio signal and generates a processed audio signal based on the content information and or source information.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

The signal analyzer may receive audio input signals from each of the source devices . The signal analyzer may be a multi channel input device capable of receiving and analyzing input signals from the plurality of source devices . The signal processor may receive the output signals analyzed audio signals from the signal analyzer and process the multiple audio signals. The signal processor may connect to one or more loudspeakers and provide audio output signals processed audio signals to the respective loudspeakers. The loudspeakers may include a front left loudspeaker a front right loudspeaker a rear left loudspeaker and a rear right loudspeaker . The vehicle environment may contain a greater number or fewer number of loudspeakers.

The signal analyzer may determine the content and source of each of the audio input signals . The signal processor may process each of the analyzed audio signals received from the signal analyzer based on the content and source identification of the respective signal. Based on the analyzed content and source identification of each analyzed audio signal the signal processor may modify the respective signal and transmit the processed audio signals to the loudspeakers .

Drivers and passengers of vehicles may receive audio information from the various audio sources in the vehicle such as from the navigation system the wireless telephone the vehicle warning and alert system and the vehicle parking assistance system . Such source devices may provide directed or specific information to the occupants. For example the navigation system may provide verbal navigational instructions or messages to the driver such as turn left at next corner. The vehicle warning system may inform the occupants of a specific condition such as low tire pressure or a particular maintenance condition for example by issuing a tone or a series of tones.

The occupants may also receive non directed information such as music news and other programming from the entertainment devices such as the radio the CD player and the DVD player . The occupants may receive such acoustic information while communicating among each other in the vehicle environment . The vehicle environment may be noisy particularly when the vehicle is traveling at high speeds. Noise may be caused by wind rain engine noise road noise vibration blower fans windshield wipers and other internal or external sources.

The driver may be overloaded with various forms of audio information and noise and may not be able to adequately distinguish between important audio information and audio information of lesser importance. Important or high priority audio information may include the directed information such as the route guidance information provided by the navigation system . Less important audio information may include the non directed information such as music provided by the CD player or programming provided by the radio . Such driver overload may distract the driver and may cause the driver to miss desired or important information. Driver overload may create an unsafe or dangerous driving condition.

The signal analyzer may determine the source of the audio input signal received source identification . Identification of the source of the audio input signal may aid analysis of the content. In one application the source of each audio input signal may be determined based on the location of an input connector to which the audio source device is connected. Alternatively the audio input signals may be connector independent and each audio source signal may include an identification signal such as an encoded identification signal. The encoded identification signal may identify the type or class of audio source device transmitting the signal. The signal analyzer may assign a priority level to the audio input signal based on the source identification. For example an audio input signal received from the navigation device may be assigned a higher priority than an audio input signal and from the radio or CD player.

The signal analyzer may analyze the content of the respective audio input signal to determine the type of information transmitted by the source device . For example the signal analyzer may analyze the spectral envelope or other feature vectors of the signal. Feature vectors may include pitch harmonic content and amplitude of the audio input signal .

The signal analyzer may receive one or more audio input signals from one or more audio source devices simultaneously. For example the signal analyzer may receive audio input signals from the navigation system and the radio . When audio signals from the navigation system are received the signal analyzer may direct the signal processor to transmit the processed audio signals corresponding to the navigation system to the loudspeakers and block the signals corresponding to the radio .

A spectral processing circuit may receive output from the sampling circuit . The spectral processing circuit may process the audio input signals using a Fast Fourier Transform FFT or Discrete Fourier Transform DFT . The spectral processing circuit may transform the signal into a cepstral representation or into a line spectral frequency representation. The spectral processor may generate predictor coefficients based on the received signals and may process the received signals based on frames or blocks of data. Each frame or block of data may contain a predetermined number of samples. The spectral processing circuit may identify the pitch the formants the mean signal power and the spectral envelope of the audio input signals . The spectral processing circuit may include hardware and or software and may include a digital signal processor DSP . The DSP may execute instructions that delay an input signal one or more additional times track frequency components of a signal filter a signal and or attenuate or boost an amplitude of a signal. Alternatively the spectral processing circuit or DSP may be implemented as discrete logic or circuitry a mix of discrete logic and a processor or may be distributed over multiple processors or software programs.

The signal analyzer may analyze the audio input signal and assign or associate a type or class to the signal. The audio input signal may be identified as a verbal message such as a message from the navigation system . The audio input signal may be identified as a tone signal such as a warning tone from the vehicle warning system . The input audio signal may be categorized according to a plurality of different characteristics.

The signal processor processes the analyzed audio signals processed by the signal analyzer . The signal processor may perform specific processing based on information received from the signal analyzer such as source and content information. The signal processor may also perform specific processing based on instructions received by the signal analyzer . The signal processor may route the audio input signals to the loudspeakers for output and or it may process the signals by adjusting the gain tone or other characteristics of the signals. The signal processor may also delay or record the signal or it may direct the signal to one or more specific loudspeakers so that one or more specific occupants may receive output from a specific loudspeaker. The signal processor may block transmission of the corresponding signal and may provide acoustic effects such as reverberation and surround sound. The signal processor may also directly pass the signal to the loudspeakers without modification.

The signal processor may receive and process one or more or all of the audio input signals from the plurality of source devices . Use of some source devices may be mutually exclusive. Output from the radio and the CD player may be active separately in time. When multiple source devices are active simultaneously the signal analyzer may process the corresponding received audio input signals and may provide instructions related to source content to the signal processor regarding each of the corresponding signals.

Based on a type or a class of signal the signal analyzer may instruct the signal processor to record or modify the audio input signal. The signal processor may delay buffer or mute the audio input signal. For example the signal analyzer may recognize that the driver is driving in heavy traffic and should not be distracted. In this circumstance the signal analyzer may instruct the signal processor to temporarily hold buffer or delay signals received from the wireless telephone .

The signal processor may modify the audio input signal based on the content and source of the audio signal determined by the signal analyzer . For example the volume of the processed audio signal directed to one or more specific loudspeakers may be modified based on the content and source of the audio input signal. The content may indicate the importance of the message transmitted. The navigation system may transmit navigational instructions and may also transmit weather updates traffic conditions and other information. The content of the audio input signal transmitted by the navigation system may indicate turn left in 500 meters. Accordingly the signal processor may increase the volume level or the pitch of the processed audio signal to alert the driver that the message is important. If the content of an audio input signal transmitted by the navigation system indicates a more immediate condition such as turn left in 50 meters the signal processor may increase the volume level and or the pitch of the processed audio signal to a greater degree.

The signal processor may use an audio effect. For example the signal processor may add reverberation to the processed audio signal corresponding to the navigation system and the amount of reverberation may be proportional to the analyzed content of the signal such as the distance value contained in the transmission. Thus the signal processor may alter the volume of the signal based on the content of the signal to alert the driver of the importance of the transmission. For example the content of an audio input signal transmitted by the navigation system may indicate turn left now. Accordingly the signal processor may direct the processed audio signal to be output by only the front left and or the rear left loudspeaker . The signal processor or the signal analyzer may include an optional voice recognition system to identify particular content such as the audio signals corresponding to the navigation system .

The content of an audio input signal transmitted by the wireless telephone may include ancillary or meta information such as caller identification information. The signal analyzer may recognize that the driver should receive the call. In this circumstance the signal analyzer may direct the signal processor to transmit the corresponding processed audio signal only to the front left loudspeaker . The signal processor may mute the other speakers.

A plurality of identified caller numbers and or a plurality of dialed numbers may be stored in a table or other memory. Each stored number may correspond to a particular occupant position in the vehicle. For example a plurality of telephone numbers identified by caller identification may correspond to friends family or acquaintances of the driver. When the signal analyzer identifies such a telephone number the signal analyzer may direct the signal processor to route the audio signal corresponding to the wireless telephone only to the front left or driver s side loudspeaker. The processed audio signal may also be modified with respect to volume and tone. Similarly other dialed in telephone numbers may correspond to a particular occupant position. Accordingly when the signal analyzer identifies a dialed in telephone number corresponding for example to the occupant in the left rear seat the signal analyzer may direct the signal processor to route the audio signal corresponding to the wireless telephone only to the left rear loudspeaker .

The parking assistance system may transmit parking instructions to the driver to assist the driver when parking the vehicle in particular when parallel parking. The parking assistance system may transmit specific information to the signal analyzer regarding distance measurements obtained during the parking process. For example the signal processor may direct the processed audio signal to the loudspeaker closest to the driver the front left loudspeaker depending upon the distance measurements obtained. If the signal processor receives information such as that only minimal parking distance remains the signal processor may direct the processed audio signal to a different loudspeaker. This may provide the driver with perceptual cues to aid in the parking process.

The signal processor and or the filters may provide a virtual loudspeaker effect which may cause the occupants to perceive the loudspeaker output from a specific spatial position in the vehicle. The perceived position of the virtual loudspeaker may be moveable. The spatial position of the virtual loudspeaker may be based on the content and or source of the audio input signal. For example if the content of an audio input signal transmitted by the navigation system indicates turn left the signal processor may cause a virtual loudspeaker to be simulated by the left hand driver s side. Alternatively the virtual loudspeaker may appear to move in the vehicle at a pre determined velocity or in a specific direction.

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded in a computer readable medium such as a CD ROM disk flash memory RAM or ROM an electromagnetic signal or other machine readable medium as instructions for execution by a processor. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits including amplifiers adders delays and filters or one or more processors executing amplification adding delaying and filtering instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software.

The logic may be represented in e.g. stored on or in a computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium. The media may comprise any device that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or infrared signal or a semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium includes a magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory i.e. EPROM or Flash memory or an optical fiber. A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which executable instructions are printed as the logic may be electronically stored as an image or in another format e.g. through an optical scan then compiled and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A controller may be implemented as a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instruction sets may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors. The systems may be included in a wide variety of electronic devices including a cellular phone a headset a hands free set a speakerphone communication interface or an infotainment system.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

