---

title: Artificial lateral line
abstract: An artificial sensor comprises at least one substrate, and a plurality of flow sensors disposed on the at least one substrate for providing a plurality of spatial-temporally varying signals representing a hydrodynamic stimulus. The plurality of flow sensors are spatially distributed on the at least one substrate. A processor is coupled to the plurality of flow sensors for receiving the signals and determining spatial-temporal information from the received signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07644624&OS=07644624&RS=07644624
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07644624
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 861 096 filed Jun. 4 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 357 035 issued Apr. 15 2008. This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 817 885 filed Jun. 30 2006 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

This invention was made with Government assistance under Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR Grant No. FA9550 05 1 0459. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Comprehensive flow sensing involves measurement of for example pressure shear stress drag and vortex temperature and three axis flow rates. The spatial and temporal evolution of surface flow features is extremely difficult to obtain due to limitations of convention scientific instruments. Conventional flow sensing instruments are singular point measurement devices only. Some prior devices have large sizes and may change the characteristics of the flow.

Microfabricated flow sensing surfaces with one or more sensing modalities to provide spatial and temporal information would be extremely useful for experimental fluid mechanical studies and for underwater vehicles and platforms for example. It is preferred that such sensors be fabricated using efficient low cost techniques allow integration of signal processing units and be mechanically robust.

An artificial sensor comprises at least one substrate and a plurality of flow sensors disposed on the at least one substrate for providing a plurality of spatial temporally varying signals representing a hydrodynamic stimulus. The plurality of flow sensors are spatially distributed on the at least one substrate. A processor is coupled to the plurality of flow sensors for receiving the signals and determining spatial temporal information from the received signals.

Fish and many underwater animals utilize multimodal sensitive skin that can detect flow pressure distribution electrical potential and field and local vortex. In nature a lateral line is a spatially distributed system of flow sensors found on the body surface of fish and aquatic amphibians. A lateral line for example usually spans the length of the fish s body. Lateral lines form spatial temporal images AC DC of nearby sources based on the sources hydrodynamic signatures.

For example linearly distributed along the lateral line of fish are clustered sensor hair cell bundles embedded in a gel like dome called neuromasts each capable of sensing local flow velocity. Neuromasts can be classified into two types superficial neuromasts as shown in left and canal neuromasts as shown in right . A superficial neuromast is situated on the surface of the fish and responds in proportion to fluid velocity. By contrast a canal neuromast is packaged in fluid filled canals located beneath the surface of the skin. Canal neuromasts provide for example sensor protection a high pass filter and or amplification. The bottom of shows a lateral line periphery of a teleost fish. In superficial neuromasts are represented by dots while canal neuromasts are represented by dots inside shaded strips.

Water flowing past the neuromasts imparts forces to the hair cells and causes haircells to bend with the extent of the bending determined by the speed of the flow. Individual cilia within a sensing node can sense flow rate. In certain species the haircells lie outside of the epidermis. In others they are embedded in sub dermal canals for added protection against wearing and damages.

Exemplary lateral line functions include 1 detection of water flow around the fish body allowing a fish to maintain stability within turbulent currents and 2 detection of distant objects such as obstacles prey and predators using direct or reflected waves. As an integrated flow sensing system such lateral lines form spatial temporal images of nearby sources based on their hydrodynamic signatures and provide mechanosensory guidance for many different behaviors including synchronized swimming in schools predator and obstacle avoidance prey detection and tracking rhetoaxis and holding station behind immersed obstacles in streams.

The lateral line a distant touch sense can complement other sensory modalities such as vision or hearing to increase survivability in unstructured environments. As nonlimiting examples a lateral line may be capable of responding to ocean currents tidal streams river flows eddies current distortions around stationary obstacles currents generated by moving animals predators prey mates or moving body parts.

However such functionalities conventionally have not been provided for artificial structures and or devices. Thus for example underwater devices such as vehicles e.g. submarines robots etc. are blind to hydrodynamic signals. This creates an absence of potentially vital information from use by such artificial structures and or devices and other types of sensing may not address this absence. Nearly all underwater vehicles and surface ships today use sonar and vision for imaging and navigation. Use of sonar however presents problems both active and passive. Visual information may be severely lacking for example where vision is poor e.g. in murky water .

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things a micromachined artificial lateral line for generally mimicking the functional organization and imaging capabilities of the biological lateral line. This allows artificial structures including underwater structures to gather information that conventionally has not been provided. The example artificial lateral line allows a distant touch hydrodynamic imaging capability to critically augment sonar and vision systems for example. Such an artificial lateral line is capable of significantly enhancing human ability to detect navigate and survive in an underwater environment.

Generally an exemplary lateral line includes one or more sensors preferably a plurality of sensors spatially distributed along one or more substrates to provide hydrodynamic signals in the form of electronic signal inputs representing hydrodynamic stimulus. A single sensor may be used to provide temporal information but it is preferred that a plurality of sensors be disposed along one or more substrates to provide spatial and temporal information e.g. spatial temporally varied signals . Plural sensors may be disposed on a substrate in a variety of ways including but not limited to one and two dimensional arrays. Preferably the sensors are monolithically integrated. A processor receives signals from the sensors and determines spatial temporal information based on the signals.

An example artificial lateral line includes a monolithically integrated array of microfabricated flow sensors. Preferably these flow sensors are sized and respectively spaced to approximate flow sensors for a biological counterpart lateral line.

The disposed sensors may be any of various types. One type of exemplary sensor includes hot wire anemometers HWA . An exemplary HWA includes a flow sensing element such as a wire elevated by two cantilevers e.g. pillars where the flow sensing element is made of a material such as but not limited to nickel. Another type of sensor includes artificial haircells. Mixed mode sensors including one or more of HWAs haircells and sensors for pressure flow chemical sensing etc. may also be used. Generally any type of flow sensor providing hydrodynamic signatures may be used. Preferred flow sensors are sensitive in multiple directions and do not significantly interfere with movement e.g. of an underwater vehicle or device on which the sensors are disposed . In certain embodiments the sensors may be packaged or otherwise protected e.g. waterproofed or covered e.g. by an artificial gel .

Further sensors may be provided within artificial neuromasts. Such neuromasts may include for example a plurality of sensors providing a sensing node. The sensors in the sensing node may be for example arranged in an array. The sensing nodes may themselves be spatially distributed along one or more substrates.

One or more signal processors and preferably a central processor may be provided for native signal processing power. Processing algorithms may be provided for evaluating particular spatial and or temporal inputs e.g hydrodynamic stimuli and determining spatial temporal patterns such as hydrodynamic signatures and or providing temporal and or spatial images. Signal conditioners amplifiers A D or D A converters or other apparatus suitably coupled to the sensors and signal processors may be used to process condition and or digitize inputs provided by the sensors. Algorithms may also be provided for making decisions based on such inputs e.g. using a control loop to take action.

An example artificial lateral line can facilitate fundamental studies of biological systems and provide unique sensing and control functions to underwater vehicles and platforms. Such a sensing system may be used for as nonlimiting examples imaging and maneuvering control for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles AUV Intrusion Detection ID systems and hydro robotics. For example underwater vehicles and platforms equipped with example artificial lateral lines can detect intruders e.g. a swimmer based on the hydrodynamic signature thereby allowing improved methods of threat monitoring.

Such lateral lines can for example augment existing artificial sensors including but not limited to those providing sonar and vision capabilities.

Example applications for artificial lateral lines according to embodiments of the present invention are provided herein including functions under biologically relevant scenarios such as localizing a moving target with a flapping part and imaging a hydrodynamic trail for prey capture. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that lateral lines according to embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the specific example applications disclosed herein.

Turning now to an example lateral line includes a linear array of flow sensors analogous to the array of neuromasts along the trunk of many fish. Individual flow sensors may operate on various principles. The sizes of individual sensors and inter sensor spacings are approximately 50 m to 2 mm across biological species. The small dimensions of the sensors are significant as they ensure that they pose minimum interference with the flow field and with each other. Example artificial lateral lines according to the present invention provide miniaturized sensors in dense arrays to provide similar benefits and thus provide the capability to mimic the sizes and functions and organization of the lateral line. A processor coupled to the flow sensors receives the signals and determines spatial temporal information from the received signals.

As a nonlimiting example one or more or all of the individual sensors may be based on a thermal hot wire anemometry HWA principle. Example sensors operating on this principle are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 923 054 and J. Chen and C. Liu Development and characterization of surface micromachined out of plane hot wire anemometer JMEMS 12 979 988 2003 . Hot wire anemometry sensors can exhibit high sensitivity and small dimensions and consequently reduced interference to flow field. An individual HWA includes a sensing element such as a thermal resistive element hot wire suspended over a substrate and operates on the principle of convective heat loss. During operation the thermal resistive element is heated above the ambient temperature using a current. When the element is exposed to a flow media the fluid flow convectively removes heat from the element and causes its temperature to drop and its resistance value to change. This provides a sensory input that can be used by example algorithms.

The hot wire in the HWA does not reside in the substrate plane i.e. the bottom of the boundary layer but rather is elevated above the substrate by two prongs just as some superficial neuromasts in fish are elevated above the skin surface by papillae. An example hot wire includes a nickel filament that is sandwiched by two layers of polyimide which serve as passivation and structural support. The polyimide layers provide passivation and structural support. An example nickel hot wire exhibits a temperature coefficient of resistance a of 4 100 ppm C.

An example process shown in to fabricate arrays of miniature hot wire anemometers shown in uses surface micromachining a technique commonly used in microelectromechanical systems MEMS to create free standing cantilevers. The example process is performed on a silicon wafer with preexisting analog integrated circuitry . Surface micromachining is used to define the HWA including a nickel iron alloy support prong and a nickel polymer composite hot wire sensing element . The resultant elevation corresponds to the design length of the prongs defined by photolithography.

The planar surface micromachining process is followed by a magnetically assisted assembly step that rotates the cantilevers out of plane. Using an example process for assembling the flow sensors out of plane plastic deformation magnetic assembly PDMA as described by example in J. Zou J. Chen C. Liu and J. E. Schutt Aine Plastic Deformation Magnetic Assembly PDMA of Out of Plane Microstructures Technology and Application Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems 10 302 309 2001 many devices can be bent out of plane in parallel with high yield. Further the sensor elements can be monolithically integrated with signal processing electronics as the example process is performed at room temperature and would not cause incompatibility with elements of electronic circuits. Generally in PDMA a magnetic material is formed on a portion of the cantilevers and an external magnetic field is applied to induce plastic deformation in a region of the sensor. At the end of the process the hot wire may be encapsulated by a conformally deposited 2 m thick Parylene film for waterproofing and further structure strengthening.

An example lateral line includes an array of miniature HWAs having dimensions on the same order of magnitude e.g. tens to hundreds of microns tall as biological neuromasts. The elevation over the substrate corresponds to the design length of the prongs defined by the photolithography process. If photolithography is used micromachined HWA sensors can have an example prong length for example from 50 m up to 2 mm. An example HWA has a wire length of 400 m and an elevation of approximately 600 m.

Another example sensor type that may be used as a flow sensor for an artificial lateral line is an artificial haircell. Nonlimiting examples of artificial haircell flow sensors are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 861 096 filed Jun. 4 2004. Example artificial haircells are also described in J. Chen Z. Fan J. Engel and C. Liu Towards Modular Integrated Sensors The Development of Artificial Haircell Sensors Using Efficient Fabrication Methods Proceedings of the 2003 IEEE RSJ Intl. Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems Las Vegas Nev. October 2003 and J. Engel J. Chen D. Bullen and C. Liu Polyurethane Rubber as a MEMS Material Characterization and Demonstration of an All Polymer Two Axis Artificial Haircell Flow Sensor 18IEEE International Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS 2005 Miami Beach Fla. USA January 2005.

Another example artificial haircell described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 809 523 filed Jun. 1 2007 and shown in includes a high aspect ratio e.g. greater than 1 1 and tall e.g. at or above 20 microns cilia like structure i.e. a cilia like artificial hair attached to a movable support . The hair is positioned generally out of plane of the support so that it can receive a force from any of a variety of sources and displace in response to the force. Preferably the hair is made from a polymer material.

In operation displacement of the hair couples the force to the movable support and in turn causes movement in the support. A strain detector is provided on the support to sense displacement of the support. Preferably the strain detector includes one or more piezoresistors formed by doping all of part of the support . Resistors such as Wheatstone bridge resistors are coupled to the strain detector. Such artificial haircells may provide improved directional performance robustness and or velocity sensitivity.

Multimodal sensing arrays are also possible as shown by example in in which an array of HWA and an array of artificial haircells are disposed on a substrate. The arrangement number type etc. of the flow sensors disposed on the substrate can vary as desired.

Similar to lateral lines for fish a sensor in an example lateral line may be disposed as a superficial sensor or as a canal sensor as shown in in which the substrate is covered by a suitable covering . A canal sensor with HWA sensors is shown in . A canal such as a polymer or gel is formed within a covering and the array of sensors is disposed within the canal. Pores may extend from a surface of the covering to the canal for allowing fluid flow.

Example artificial lateral lines according to embodiments of the present invention have been used for hydrodynamic testing under biologically relevant scenarios. In exemplary methods we have established the performance and functionality of an example artificial lateral line by recording the spatial temporal response to a nearby dipole source. The dipole is simple and yet ubiquitous in the underwater world. For example when a fish swims its tail causes a dipolar near field flow in addition to a wake behind it. It has been found that certain predators can accurately localize and attack a prey that is nearby e.g. at a distance equivalent to one or two fish body lengths away solely by using its lateral line system to measure the dipole field associated with the prey.

Inspired by fish behaviors the spatially distributed response from the example lateral line array can be used to identify the exact location of a moving dipole source. Example algorithms are provided according to embodiments of the present invention to assist in localization and tracking of vibrational dipole sources underwater. Using such algorithms allows accurate tracking of the trajectory of a moving dipole source.

The location of a dipole source is encoded in the location and amplitude of the apex. According to embodiments of the invention example signal processing algorithms are provided based on maximum likelihood analysis. Example algorithms compare the pattern of the signal received by the array with the expected pattern at all positions and it selects the best match as the estimate of the actual dipole location. Particular example algorithms can predict the location of the dipole even when the apex lies outside of the length of the lateral line.

With an artificial lateral line including micromachined e.g. MEMS sensors such as but not limited to the example 16 element array of finely spaced hot wire flow sensors fast efficient and robust algorithms can be used to analyze complex spatial temporal input from the sensor array for perception of hydrodynamic activities. According to embodiments of the present invention algorithms are provided that complement a sensor such as the example artificial lateral line system for a complete biomimetic hardware software solution.

The density of the example HWA sensor offers high performance in terms of sensitivity. For example a fabricated MEMS HWA can sense flow on the order of 10 mm sec. Such a sensor also provides a desired frequency range. Most hydrodynamic dipoles oscillate at low frequencies 

Pressure and velocity distributions respectively can be described according to an abridged version of an acoustic dipole model as 

Equation 1 relates the scalar pressure field of a dipole in the local flow region to the dipole diameter a the density the observation distance r and angle the angular frequency as well as the dipole s initial vibrational velocity amplitude U. Equation 2 describes the local fluid flow velocity vector field as a function of the initial velocity position and dipole diameter. The position of the observation point as well as the coordinate description is shown in .

The spatial distribution of the magnitude of vibratory flow velocity in response to an oscillating dipole as predicted by Equations 1 2 is shown in left as a function of distance away from the dipole. right shows the experimental response of an exemplary HWA to a dipole stimulus as a function of distance away from the dipole. In the oscillating direction of the dipole is shown and the dipole is shown as a filled in circle. In both cases the axis of the dipole course oscillation is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the lateral line. The experimental output of the HWA sensor matches pertinent profile information predicted by the theoretical model such as the peak and the slope of the main lobe. The peak of the center lobe always coincides with the projected center of the oscillating dipole on the lateral line. As the distance between the oscillating dipole and the lateral line increases the magnitude of the center lobe decreases and the width of the center lobe increases. The difference between the two profiles noticeably the side lobe regions can be attributed to the direction sensitivity of the HWA sensor.

Examples of signal processing algorithms are provided according to embodiments of the present invention which can be used to predict a location of a dipole. Example algorithms are based on a template training approach a modeling approach and or a heuristic approach. These example approaches operate on empirical data that is collected by the sensor array. Example algorithms based on these three approaches have been evaluated for accuracy computational complexity and ease of implementation. A description of each approach now follows.

The template training approach relies on a simple template training method whereby an algorithm uses a template as a model and then compares the collected raw data to the template to make a decision. Within this approach two subcategories arise. Training can be done with the raw data or with a model developed from the raw data a modeling approach . In example template training and modeling methods a minimum mean squared error MMSE algorithm is used. It has been shown that for independent identically distributed Gaussian noise at each sensor a reasonable assumption for electronic noise this is also a maximum likelihood estimator MLE .

In an example method for training with raw data two data sets were collected and used. The first data set was called the training data set. The second data set was called the experimental data set. Systematic measurements were made including dipole measurements taken at each vertex in a grid scanning two body lengths of the sensor array along its axis and one body length away from it as shown in . Distance away from the array normal to the array was designated as the y axis whereas distance along parallel to the array was designated as the x axis. Spatial distribution of the magnitude of flow velocity fluctuation was collected from the lateral line for the dipole source located at each grid point vertex with individual grid points 1 mm apart as shown in . In an experiment four dipole measurements were taken at each fixed position i.e. at each specified grid point. These four measurements were averaged and the averaged value was recorded at each grid point vertex . A matrix of these averaged values formed the training data set.

In the second data set experimental data set experimental runs were recorded as the dipole source was mechanically swept along various paths or patterns. In the y axis is the distance away from the sensor array represented by filled in circles at the bottom. The x axis is the distance along parallel to the sensor array. Of the experimental data sets one experimental data set is along the x axis horizontal sweep another is along the y axis vertical sweep and the third was a composite step curve.

For each integer position on the y axis within the relevant scope a training matrix was created with rows being the horizontal integer positions 31 positions along the array and with columns being the sensor outputs 16 sensors averaged over four dipole measurement runs. Effectively there were 9 positions 5 13 mm inclusive vertically leading to 9 training matrices. These were coalesced into a combined three dimensional matrix indexed by vertical position first called the training data set as mentioned above. Each of the experimental data sets included an m by n matrix where m is the number of experimental positions and n is the number of sensor outputs.

A minimum mean squared error MMSE estimator was used as the principal algorithm for the template training and modeling approaches. We assume that we have a calibrated data training set such as the created data set described above to be used as a template. We also are assumed to have an experimental data set. Generally for a set of sensor readings corresponding to a particular position k in the experimental data set a search is performed through the template x y grid. When the error between the experimental data set under consideration and a particular template is minimal the x and y coordinates corresponding to that template constitutes the predictive solution. The example algorithm is presented in pseudo code below where A is a correlation factor between the template and data sets for the MMSE algorithm is the error and S is the predictive solution.

The template can be either from the training data or from modeling. Further the example algorithm can be used in an analytical approach an empirical approach or a hybrid mix.

The modeling approach is provided to improve performance and flexibility of the example training algorithms. Equations for theoretical models will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. However some analytical models may not be wholly applicable due to the type of sensor used. Thus an example empirically developed model is provided according to a nonlimiting embodiment of the present invention.

For the MEMS HWA used in the experiment and the visual form of the data it was speculated that a Gaussian mixture model might work well as an empirical model. Gaussian mixtures of the form of Equation 3 were tried.

From Equation 3 the variable k is referred to as the order of the fit. The first order fit suitably approximates the sensor data while higher order fits fine tune the approximation and increase the goodness of fit. shows the approximation of data collected by a single MEMS HWA sensor by Gaussian fits of the first and second order. The first order fit yielded an Rvalue of 0.985 while the second and successive high order fit yielded a 0.997 Rvalue. Polynomial fits were also attempted but were not used due to the complexity of the high order curves needed for a good fit. Often as shown in a ninth order or higher polynomial curve was needed to achieve a fit with an Rvalue of 0.95 less than even a first order Gaussian curve.

Once an applicable curve was chosen e.g. two mixture Gaussian the curve was fit to all 16 columns of sensor training data. Then the fitted model was used as a template for the MMSE algorithm. The example algorithm was designed to predict the position of the dipole to within a millimeter using the Gaussian fit. However to achieve a greater accuracy e.g. nearest tenth of a millimeter simple linear interpolation was used between the points of the fit curve. As with training with the raw sensor data the example MMSE algorithm was used and three experimental runs were conducted as a test of this approach.

The third example approach heuristics includes a set of simple feature identification methods similar to those associated in quantitative data processing imaging and robotics. Many heuristic methods do not have sufficient formal grounding in statistical signal processing. In part due to this such methods are often overlooked because of their simplicity and informality.

Several different types of heuristics are possible non limiting examples of which are shown in . Each of the heuristics is described in terms of the features that heuristic mapped to. A peak fit heuristic locates the peak and uses this as a measure of the dipole s actual localization. A Q fit maps a quadratic fit onto a positive half cycle of a curve. A sidelobe zero crossing heuristic uses the sidelobes zero crossings as a localization metric. A base spread heuristic uses the base spanning distance whereas the half spread heuristic uses the half spread as a metric.

An example localization process with a heuristic approach typically involves training or calibration. An example is given below for the half spread heuristic though it will be appreciated that other heuristics operate similarly.

I. Conduct horizontal and vertical sweeps at various distances noting the half spread at each distance. Alternately this could be done theoretically with an analytical expression such as an analytical expression for a dipole model. In an example described herein the response is oriented to a particular sensor and thus the analytical expression is not used.

II. Using the information in step I a linear interpolation is used to gather information for intermediate distances. This interpolation is justified since a linear rate of change can suitably approximate a small dipole traversal.

III. The half spread distance from an experimental run is then matched to the information matrix at hand. This can effectively yield the horizontal and vertical positions given a high Signal to Noise Ratio SNR environment.

An advantage of this approach lies in its simplicity and ease of implementation. Furthermore predictive results using the approach in high SNR cases are accurate. The disadvantage to this approach is that the performance of the algorithm degrades rapidly as the quality of the environment decreases to the point that in a low SNR the results are essentially random.

Experiments were performed by the present inventors to validate the example algorithms described above. The first step was to calibrate the sensors to ensure that all sensors exhibit equal sensitivity and to fine tune the sensors to a common level in software. Due to a preferably fixed spacing of 1 mm between the micromachined sensors each sensor was shifted by 1 mm thereby aligning the waveforms for each training matrix. After the alignment an average was taken of the readings of each position. Each sensor is then calibrated by applying correlation techniques between the averaged and shifted matrices and then normalizing the result to the average. This is done for each of the training matrices. The calibrated data is then rendered in the same form as the training data coalesced into a three dimensional set . shows a series of sensors before and after calibration.

Hydrodynamic experiments were conducted in a custom designed water tank. shows the detailed experimental setup overview and shows local details of a dipole source. The setup included a stage system made by Standa Ltd for translation control a minishaker for vibration generation a sphere to function as a dipole source and a microfabricated HWA sensor array for sensing and detection. Three linear stages were used each perpendicularly mounted to the other. Each of them was operated by a stepper motor which were in turn controlled by a computer through a Labview interface. A joint function of three stages can realize an arbitrary three dimensional movement with accuracy of 2 m in position. A B K minishaker model 4010 was mounted to the stage system. This minishaker can generate sinusoidal vibration along its axis within a frequency range from 2 Hz to 11000 Hz. A 6 mm diasphere is connected to the minishaker through a rod. A PCB accelerometer model 352B10 was attached to the rod to measure acceleration of vibration.

For these experiments water was employed as the working fluid. The sphere vibrated in a direction parallel to the axis of the example sensor array at a fixed frequency of 75 Hz and displacement amplitude of 0.4 mm. For the training approach systematic measurements were made with the dipole source traveling step by step in an area spanning two body lengths of the sensor array along its axis and one body length away from it. Experiments were conducted for the dipole source located at each grid point vertex with individual grid points 1 mm apart and with all grid points evenly distributed over the above area. Four runs were taken at each fixed position i.e. at each specified grid point. For each run time traces of signal outputs from 16 channels sensors were recorded through a computer controlled data acquisition system with a sample rate of 2048 samples sec and a total length of 1024 samples for each channel. Later blind runs were recorded as sweeps in the horizontal and vertical directions or as a composite of sensor values at various positions in the grid. Individual sensor calibration was conducted to accommodate slight differences in sensitivity of each sensor.

We used the template training approach to track the location of the dipole source as it moves through the three representative pathways described above. As shown in the MMSE algorithm accurately predicts the dipole s location along the array in the x axis as well as away from the array y axis in all three cases. The values at the fringes were inaccurate but performance degradation was expected as the signal decayed and the relative noise increased. Statistically the accuracy for predicting the location of the dipole decreases as the distance between the dipole and the lateral line increases. The advantage of MMSE is that it lends itself to a fast real time implementation and emulation of biological systems. The tradeoff however is the processing power and space needed as the predictive space increases.

The modeling approach was used as well to predict the location of the dipole source and tracking its movement and offered similar results to the MMSE algorithm with raw data. Results obtained using this approach are shown in . Prediction for the vertical run was more accurate but distortion of the profile as a whole was more pronounced.

The performance of four heuristics half peak quadratic fit sidelobe and base is shown in . The line in shows the actual location of the dipole. As is shown the accuracy of the heuristic is directly correlated to the SNR level.

In general example algorithms according to embodiments of the present invention allow localization of a dipole source using an array of microscale MEMS sensors and bio inspired approaches. Three example approaches include training modeling and heuristics.

The training approach provided accurate results using the MMSE algorithm. Furthermore the example approach can be implemented in a straightforward manner on both static and real time systems. However the computational power and raw data set should be significantly large when this approach is applied to complex scenarios. The introduction of variables such as dipole orientation vibrational frequency and size or a complicated environment involving multiple dipoles would necessitate the use of a much more complex raw data set. Furthermore while this example approach excels in improving sensor level robustness it is vulnerable to system level changes. For example reducing the number of sensors or leaving gaps to simulate the failure of individual sensors was shown to produce near optimal results. However significant changes in the orientation or the diameter of the dipole require additional data sets to provide more accurate results.

The heuristic approach likewise is relatively easy to implement in both real time and static systems. Furthermore the heuristic approach can handle some degree of error in the environment or on a system level. Another advantage is that the heuristic approach potentially has the largest range since it looks for comparisons and is not bound by the size of a fixed data set grid. However performance of example heuristic approaches is affected by noise as well as vulnerability to clustered sensor level failures.

In contrast the modeling approach is more flexible and robust. Furthermore this approach has the accuracy of the training approach while preserving some of the extended range of the heuristic approach. Example methods use a very accurate Gaussian model for MEMS HWA sensors or analytical model for an ideal dipole. At this accuracy the model closely resembles the underlying data set. Therefore the model achieves comparable accuracy. However using such models introduces difficulty and cost in a system level implementation. This is due to the fact that the raw data sets are pre fitted to a particular model for the particular array which for example requires additional storage as well as the fact that scaling should be done before the approach is initially used.

In other example systems such as but not limited to UUV guidance or intrusion detection a hybrid mix of two or even three approaches would possibly be warranted depending on the application goal and engineering constraints. Different applications such as monitoring and targeting for submarines and ships port and harbor defense intrusion detection and hydro robotics as well as different environmental conditions would call for a fusion of both approaches.

Given the example artificial lateral line and example algorithms we illustrate the capability of this dipole tracking ability using three representative cases. In all tests described below the dipole was confined to move within an area that covers two body lengths along the artificial lateral line and one body length away from it where body length represents the length of the sensor array.

A vibrating sphere was employed to function as a dipole source. A minishaker B K model 4010 was fixed to a motorized 3 axis linear stage system Standa model 8MT175 equipped with computerized motion control through step motors. A sphere of 3 mm in diameter was attached to the minishaker through a 12 gauge needle that served as the dipole source. An example vibrating sphere is shown in . An accelerometer PCB model 352B10 was attached to the base of the needle to measure the acceleration of the dipole. The artificial lateral line the packaged HWA array was mounted on a test fixture rigidly attached to the base of the water tank through a suction cup. For all experiments arrayed HWA sensors were aligned parallel to the vibration axis of the sphere i.e. the dipole source which was operated in sinusoidal mode by the minishaker at a frequency of 75 Hz with displacement amplitude of 0.4 mm.

Theoretical prediction of pressure and pressure gradient felt by a lateral line in response has been made in the past and verified by neuro physiological studies. The spatial distribution of pressure gradient amplitude resembles a Mexican hat profile the magnitude is highest at the projected center of the dipole and diminishes gradually with increasing lateral distance from the center.

The example artificial lateral line was able to record a profile well matched to the theoretical prediction as shown in . This is possible despite the differences between transfer functions of the biological neuromast and the example HWA. It should be noted that the example HWA sensors are subjected to periodic flow sense water particle displacement instead of pressure displacement. However the values of these two differ only by a factor. The example HWA sensor poses another challenge namely it cannot discern the flow polarity and provides a rectified reading of a complex oscillatory flow field. To reconstruct the peak to peak amplitude a derectification technique is used in example methods based on spectrum analysis.

In the first representative case the dipole source is translated stepwise parallel to the artificial lateral line path as shown in path of . The lateral output recorded at each step has identical amplitude with shifting apex as shown in . In the second representative case the dipole source is moved perpendicularly away from the lateral line. The profiles of lateral line output flatten out when the dipole source fades into the distance as shown in . In a third case the dipole traverses in a complex path in the plane of the sensor array. For the three paths predictions are very accurate in most locations and generally become less accurate with increased distance from the sensor array.

In addition to localization of a swimming prey in a dipolar near field following the wake behind the prey can allow a predator to track and eventually localize the prey starting at a much greater distance e.g. a few to a few tens of prey body length . It has been shown that a functional lateral line can be used for wake following.

The wake behind a swimming fish contains organized vortices. Inspired by this we generated a turbulent wake by using a vertically mounted circular cylinder placed in water flow Re 5000 as shown in . The wake includes alternately shed large scale vortices known as a K rm n Street as shown in . The strength of the vortices is similar to those produced by certain freely swimming fish. We find that by using the example artificial lateral line one can identify the signature of a wake and the general direction of the source.

A desktop water tunnel ELD Inc. model 501 with a test section of 150 mm by 150 mm was employed. A cylinder of 25 mm in diameter was vertically fixed in a uniform current at speed of 0.2 m s. The corresponding Reynolds number is approximately 5000. The example artificial lateral line was exposed in the wake behind the cylinder with arrayed HWA sensors perpendicular to the inflow and to the axis of the cylinder. The PC board holding the substrate where sensors resided was tilted at an angle of attack of 5 to suppress flow separation from the leading edge on the sensor side. To correct sensitivity difference among sensors and to correct the non linear response of each individual sensor the sensor array was calibrated under the same condition without the cylinder.

The example artificial lateral line was exposed to the wake to record the spatial distribution of local velocity fluctuation. To cover the desired size of the field of view 3.5D wide and 6D deep with D being the diameter of the cylinder we traversed the sensor array across the wake and stitched multiple images as shown in .

The distribution of rms velocity shows that the example lateral line array is capable of capturing the main feature of the wake dramatic dual peaks with a valley in between in the near wake and decreasing intensity of the peaks further downstream.

The velocity fluctuation was determined using a second method that accentuates peak features with even greater contrast. This method includes extracting the flow velocity amplitude at a characteristic frequency associated with the wake generating source e.g. the vortex shedding frequency from the cylinder. As a result two clearly defined peaks occurred along the entire field of view. We conjecture that this algorithm lowers the background signal by rejecting broadband noise in the fluid.

Example artificial lateral lines have been shown to have significant flow sensing capability. The high velocity sensitivity 200 m s and broad bandwidth 1 KHz enable the artificial lateral line to sense minute variation of diverse hydrodynamic events. The dense arrangement of individual microscale sensors e.g. spacing of 1 mm provides high spatial resolution on both global patterns and local details. Omni directional sensing with high resolution is possible in certain embodiments. Assisted with example algorithms collected information from a sensor array of the example artificial lateral line can be used for localization and tracking of underwater moving objects. Such functionalities endow the example artificial lateral line with the unique sense of distant touch. Equipped with this technique underwater vehicles or objects can gain a new sense in addition to vision and sonar. That in turn can significantly enhance the capability of underwater vehicles and objects of target detection and following as well as collision avoidances especially under circumstances when vision and sonar abilities are limited.

Artificial lateral lines according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention may be useful for as nonlimiting examples comprehensive monitoring of a liquid flow field for underwater vehicles and structures such as autonomous underwater vehicles deep sea drilling stations and military vehicles comprehensive monitoring of flow conditions for aircrafts and unmanned vehicles or more generally as a large sensitive skin for covering an object for providing characterization of a flow field object source localization wave tracking chemical sensing etc.

Example applications of the artificial lateral line can provide a new mode of hydrodynamic sensing including distant touch sensing similar to a lateral line of fish. Stealth identification of underwater objects is possible with high spatial resolution and even stealth imaging without revealing one s presence and or position unlike some imaging based on vision or sonar. Example artificial lateral lines can provide information for control methods for underwater vehicles.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

