---

title: System, method and computer program of managing subscription-based services
abstract: A method of managing subscription-based services is disclosed and includes receiving configuration data from a third-party service provider at a subscription service management system, where the configuration data indicates details of a subscription-based service plan to be fulfilled by the third-party service provider. The method also includes receiving a request from a consumer to receive a service corresponding to the subscription-based service plan, where the request is received at the subscription service management system via an online site. The method also includes activating the service on behalf of the consumer, wherein the consumer is to receive the service during the subscription period. Further, the method includes sending at least one message to the third-party service provider during the subscription period, wherein the at least one message is related to a time-based trigger event associated with the subscription-based service plan.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08458051&OS=08458051&RS=08458051
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08458051
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
Subscription based services allow consumers to enjoy various interests regularly and allow service providers to receive regular service revenues over time. Some service providers may not have the facilities to manage certain aspects of subscription based services such as promotion billing and tracking fulfillment timetables for a large volume of subscription based service plans. This can be particularly true where the service provider desires to provide multiple types of plans to consumers. Further many service providers may not have the capabilities to make their subscription plans visible to consumers. Hence there is a need for an improved system and method of managing subscription based services.

A system to manage subscription based services is disclosed and includes a server system having logic and memory accessible to the logic. The memory includes instructions executable by the logic to receive configuration data from a third party service provider. The configuration data indicates details of a subscription based service plan to be fulfilled by the third party service provider. The memory also includes instructions executable by the logic to receive a request from a consumer for a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. The memory also includes instructions executable by the logic to activate a subscription period associated with the consumer where the consumer is to receive the service in a plurality of service increments during the subscription period. Further the memory includes instructions executable by the logic to send at least one message to the third party service provider during the subscription period where the at least one message is related to a time based trigger event associated with the subscription based service plan.

In another embodiment a routine for managing subscription based services is disclosed and includes receiving configuration data from a third party service provider at a subscription service management system where the configuration data indicates details of a subscription based service plan to be fulfilled by the third party service provider. The routine also includes receiving a request from a consumer to receive a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan where the request is received at the subscription service management system via an online site. The routine also includes activating the service on behalf of the consumer wherein the consumer is to receive the service during the subscription period. Further the routine includes sending at least one message to the third party service provider during the subscription period wherein the at least one message is related to a time based trigger event associated with the subscription based service plan.

In another embodiment a routine for managing subscription based services is disclosed and includes registering with a subscription service management system by providing third party service provider identification data and account data via an account creation interface of an online site. The routine also includes providing details of a subscription based service plan via a subscription based service plan configuration interface of the online site. The routine also includes receiving data indicating an option to selectively offer or not offer the subscription based service plan via the online site.

In another embodiment a routine for managing subscription based services is disclosed and includes receiving data at a subscription system via an interface to a third party service provider. The data indicates a request from a consumer to activate a service associated with a subscription based service plan of the third party service provider. The routine also includes activating the service after the consumer has satisfied a pre defined activation condition associated with the subscription based service plan. The routine also includes sending data to a subscription service management system accessible via an online site where the data sent to the subscription service management system indicates a subscription period associated with the service to be received by the consumer.

In another embodiment a routine for managing subscription based services is disclosed and includes providing a graphical user interface GUI to a consumer via an online site. The GUI includes details of a subscription based service plan associated with a third party service provider. The routine also includes receiving data via the online site indicating a request from the consumer to activate a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. Further the routine includes activating the service after the consumer has satisfied a pre defined activation condition associated with the subscription based service plan wherein the service is to be provided to the consumer in a plurality of service increments during a subscription period.

Referring to a system to manage subscription based services is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a subscription service management system that communicates with a third party service provider subscription system via a network such as the Internet. In a particular embodiment the third party service provider subscription system communicates with subscribers or prospective subscribers such as the consumer via a subscription fulfillment system . The third party service provider subscription system may also communicate with subscribers or prospective subscribers such as the consumer via one or more consumer interfaces .

The subscription service management system is configured to communicate with consumer computing devices such as the consumer computer via the network . In addition the subscription service management system may be configured to communicate with a plurality of financial service providers via one or more financial networks . The subscription service management system may communicate with a third party service provider financial account via one or more of the financial networks . The financial network s may include without limitation credit card networks automated clearinghouse ACH networks clearinghouse interbank payment system CHIPS networks electronic bill presentment and payment EBPP networks electronic funds transfer EFT networks additional financial networks or any combination thereof.

In the embodiment depicted in the subscription service management system is also configured to communicate with one or more security data systems . The security data system s include one or more systems that store identification data financial data background data other data or any combination thereof which can be accessed and used in conjunction with fraud check procedures and similar procedures to verify identities reputations other attributes or any combination thereof with respect to third party service providers and consumers. In one embodiment the subscription service management system communicates with the security data system s via one or more of the financial network s . Alternatively the subscription service management system communicates with the security data system s via a private network or the network . As described in more detail below the subscription service management system may communicate with one or more security data systems to confirm the authenticity of information provided by a potential consumer a third party service provider or any combination thereof.

The subscription service management system is adapted to provide an online site that is accessible to consumers and third party service providers via the network . For example the online site is a website of a seller wholesale or retail. As described further herein the subscription service management system is configured to receive requests from third party service providers requesting that the subscription service management system manage one or more subscriptions to be fulfilled by the third party service providers.

In response to receiving a request from a third party service provider the subscription service management system may determine whether the requesting third party service provider is associated with a subscription management account or other account accessible to the subscription service management system . If the third party service provider is not associated with such an account the subscription service management system prompts the third party service provider to register with the subscription service management system by providing identification data information related to the third party service provider financial account other data or information or any combination thereof.

In addition to establishing or identifying an account for a third party service provider the subscription service management system is adapted to receive configuration data from a third party service provider that is necessary to establish a subscription based service plan that may be selectively offered at the online site provided by the subscription service management system. The configuration data is received via a graphical user interface application programming interface API other interfaces or any combination thereof which the service management system provides via the network . As discussed herein the configuration data includes details of a subscription based service plan to be fulfilled by the third party service provider during a subscription period. In one embodiment a subscription based service plan is fulfilled in a plurality of service increments such as twelve monthly magazine issues or in a single service increment such as a shipping discount service that is renewable annually. In alternative embodiments a subscription based service plan may be fulfilled based upon a set number of items to be purchased independent of time. For example subscription based service plan may be fulfilled upon purchase of five compact discs.

The subscription service management system is adapted to receive configuration data related to a variety of subscription based service plans. For example subscription based service plans offered by third party service providers include but are not limited to a magazine service plan a voice calling service plan a digital video disc DVD rental service plan a music downloading service plan a television programming service plan an insurance plan or any combination thereof. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art any type of subscription based service plan may be utilized with embodiments of the present invention.

As a further example subscription based service plans include a service plan tier such as a bronze silver gold or platinum membership or a preferred or premium customer status an additional service related to a subscription based service plan such as adding a digital video recorder service to a television programming service plan a usage service option such as text messaging a recurring sub subscription option such as adding call waiting or other calling features to a voice calling service plan a separate party sub subscription option such as adding a movie channel or a premium channel sports package to a television programming service or any combination thereof. In a particular embodiment the subscription service management system receives configuration data related to multiple different types of subscription based service plans from a single third party service provider from multiple third party service providers or any combination thereof.

The details of a subscription based service plan that are received as part of the configuration data include for example a plan identifier a plan title a services description a subscription period a number of service increments during the subscription period a time interval between service increments or any combination thereof. Further the details of the subscription based service plan include a customized billing structure specified by the third party service provider. The customized billing structure includes a number of billing increments a time interval between billing increments a payment amount associated with each billing increment an indication of whether billing is to occur before or after each service increment an indication of whether each billing increment is to relate to a current past or future service increment or any combination thereof.

The customized billing structure may also include a discount rule e.g. 10 per year subscription purchased a discount amount a trial offer period e.g. first two months a trial offer service e.g. first three magazine issues a trial offer rule e.g. must provide valid credit card a service threshold after which billing is to begin e.g. first 100 cell phone minutes free one or more accepted payment types an initial payment to activate the service corresponding to the subscription based service plan or any combination thereof.

In addition the details of the subscription based service plan may include a service provider cancellation rule a subscriber cancellation rule a shipping type a shipping cost a shipping restriction e.g. domestic only a valid shipping identification requirement e.g. no P.O. boxes a valid e mail account requirement a maximum number of subscriptions per customer a date on which the subscription based service plan is to be first offered at the online site a date on which the subscription based service plan is no longer to be offered at the online site or any combination thereof.

A subscription based service plan may be an individual plan or may be associated with a family of subscription based service plans offered by one or more third party service providers. The details corresponding to a family of subscription based service plans may include an available subscription upgrade from one plan to another an available subscription downgrade from one plan to another a subscription upgrade rule a subscription downgrade rule or any combination thereof. For instance a shipping service for a family of preferred customer shipping plans offers a periodic fee to be charged to a subscriber based on a number of parcels shipped each year such that the subscriber will receive discounted shipping rates during the time interval. In one example if the subscriber ships one hundred parcels per year the subscriber receives a 10 discount on all shipping costs charged by the carrier in return for a fee of 39.95 per year. On the other hand if the subscriber ships one thousand parcels per year the subscriber receives a 20 discount on all shipping costs charged by the carrier in return for a fee of 59.95 per year. If the number of parcels that the subscriber expects to ship changes the subscriber has an option to upgrade or downgrade to a different subscription plan within the family of plans offered by the carrier.

In another embodiment the details of a subscription based service plan include a number of available concurrently active subscription based service plans. For example a magazine service provider may desire to offer fifty available subscriptions to the same magazine under identical terms. Rather than configuring fifty separate subscriptions the details of the subscription plan indicate that fifty concurrently active subscriptions to the magazine are to be made available using the subscription based service plan details provided by the third party service provider. In addition the details indicate a maximum number of the concurrently active subscriptions available for purchase by a single subscriber a maximum number of all subscriptions offered by the third party service provider to all subscribers a maximum number of all subscriptions offered by the third party service provider that can be purchased by a single subscriber or any combination thereof.

After configuration data related to a subscription based service plan is received at the subscription service management system the subscription based service plan may be offered via the online site. For example the third party service provider is presented with an option to selectively offer or not offer the subscription based service plan via the online site provided by the subscription service management system and the third party service provider sends data to the subscription service management system indicating an election to offer or to not offer the subscription based service plan via the online site. In one embodiment the third party service provider elects to add an identifier of the subscription based service plan or the service corresponding thereto to a searchable catalogue of products services or any combination thereof that is accessible via the online site.

To ensure among other things the security of potential customers and the integrity of the subscriptions services offered by the third party subscription service management system the subscription service management system performs one or more fraud check procedures prior to activating an account associated with the third party service provider prior to offering the subscription based service plan via the online site or any combination thereof. For example the subscription service management system may query the security data system s for data indicating whether the third party service provider the subscription based service plan details of the subscription based service plan or any combination thereof are known to be associated with fraudulent activity or for data indicating whether identification data or financial account information received at the subscription service management system is accurate with respect to the third party service provider that is purportedly submitting the data e.g. whether the party offering the subscription based service plan is posing as a legitimate company . Further the subscription service management system may perform one or more screening procedures to ensure that the subscription based service plan satisfies one or more policies such as policies against offering adult content illegal content or perishable food items e.g. fruit of the month .

As part of offering subscription based services the subscription service management system receives requests from consumers such as the consumer to receive a service corresponding to a subscription based service plan via the online site. For example the consumer uses the consumer computer to submit search criteria to a search engine provided at the online site and search results are returned including identifiers of one or more subscription based service plan s whose identifiers details or any combination thereof match the search criteria. The consumer selects an identifier of the subscription based service plan from a list of search results for instance and the subscription service management system provides for display a graphical user interface GUI to the consumer computer that includes details of the subscription based service plan. The subscription service management system receives data from the consumer computer indicating a request from the consumer to activate the service associated with the subscription based service plan. In one embodiment the GUI includes a selectable indicator of an option to activate the service associated with the subscription based service plan such as a Subscribe Now indicator a Sign Up indicator a Join Now indicator or other indicator and the subscription service management system receives data indicating a selection of the indicator.

In response to the request the subscription service management system activates a service associated with the subscription based service plan for a subscription period during which the consumer will receive the service from the third party service provider according to the details of the subscription based service plan. The subscription period may be selected by the consumer . For example a consumer may request during the month of March that a Book of the Month Club service be activated for the consumer beginning in May. The details of the Book of the Month Club subscription based service plan may indicate that the consumer is to receive a new book each month for one year after the request. Thus a subscription period extending from this May until the following May would be activated and associated with the consumer .

As part of activating a subscription service in response to a consumer request the subscription service management system may initially determine whether the consumer is registered with the online site. If the consumer is not registered with the online site the subscription service management system prompts the consumer to create an account. The subscription service management system receives identification data financial account data billing data shipping data other data or any combination thereof related to the consumer . The subscription service management system may also perform one or more fraud check procedures to verify data received from the consumer computer e.g. by interacting with the security data system s before activating an account associated with the consumer .

In another embodiment the subscription service management system determines whether the consumer has satisfied a pre defined activation condition associated with the subscription based service plan before activating a subscription period selected by the consumer . For instance the subscription based service plan may require the consumer to provide an initial payment or to provide valid credit card or address information prior to activation of the service. The subscription service management system activates the subscription period after it has determined that the consumer has satisfied the activation condition and any fraud check procedures have been completed with respect to the consumer .

Upon activation of a subscription service the subscription service management system sends a notification to the third party service provider subscription system indicating that with the service has been activated with respect to the consumer has been activated. Further the subscription service management system sends account information related to the consumer to the third party service provider subscription system with the notification or with a subsequent notification. Such notifications may be sent to the third party service provider in real time as logs indicating activations corresponding to a pre defined time range in response to a log retrieval command received from the third party service provider at predetermined intervals e.g. nightly or any combination thereof.

In an alternative embodiment the third party service provider elects to not offer the subscription based service plan via the online site. Rather the third party service provider offers the subscription based service plan via one or more of the consumer interfaces . Consumer interfaces include for example an online site a call center an interactive voice response system another consumer interface or any combination thereof that is made accessible to consumers by the third party service provider. Still further a third party service provider may elect to offer a subscription based service plan via both an online site provided by the third party service provider subscription system and via a consumer interface .

In the instance that a subscription based service plan is offered via a consumer interface the third party service provider subscription system receives data from one or more of the consumer interfaces indicating a request from the consumer to receive the service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. The third party service provider subscription system sends data indicating the request and a subscription period associated with the consumer to the subscription service management system . The subscription service management system activates the service during the subscription period in response to the data received from the third party service provider. In another embodiment the third party service provider may offer the subscription based service plan at a website of the third party service provider but the consumer request is received at the subscription service management system for example via a hyperlink that directs the consumer from the third party service provider website to the online site to request activation make payment and the like.

In a particular embodiment a plurality of time based trigger events occur during a subscription period associated with a consumer. For example a subscription based service offered by the third party service provider is fulfilled in a plurality of time based service increments such as twelve monthly magazine issues. Each of the service increments represents a time based trigger event corresponding to the consumer s subscription period. In another example payment for a subscription based service is collected in a plurality of billing increments such as twelve monthly installments. Each of the billing increments represents a time based trigger event corresponding to the consumer s subscription period.

The subscription service management system is adapted to send at least one message related to a time based trigger event to the third party service provider during a subscription period associated with a consumer. The subscription service management system can send such messages to the third party service provider via e mail via simple object access protocol SOAP messaging via other protocols or technologies that facilitate pushing messages to another party or any combination thereof. Alternatively the subscription service management system can provide such messages in response to SOAP messages API calls or other communications received from the third party service provider to pick up or otherwise pull messages from the subscription service management system .

In one embodiment the subscription service management system sends an e mail or other communication to the third party service provider via the third party service provider subscription system informing the third party service provider that a time for a next service increment has been reached will occur within a pre defined time period or has passed. For example the message may state a date time or any combination thereof at which a service increment is to be provided to the consumer. In another illustrative embodiment the subscription service management system sends a message to the third party service stating that a time for a next billing increment has been reached will occur within a pre defined time period or has passed. The message includes for example a date time or any combination thereof at which a next subscription payment is to be collected from the consumer.

The subscription service management system may be adapted to send at least one message related to a time based trigger event to the consumer computer during a subscription period associated with the consumer . In an illustrative embodiment the subscription service management system sends an e mail or other communication to the consumer computer informing the consumer that a time for a next service increment has been reached will occur within a pre defined time period or has passed. The message states for instance a date time or any combination thereof at which a service increment is to be received by the consumer . In another embodiment the subscription service management system sends a message to the consumer computer stating that a time for a next billing increment has been reached will occur within a pre defined time period or has passed. The message includes for example a date time or any combination thereof at which a next subscription payment is to be paid by the consumer.

Messages related to trigger events are sent by the subscription service management system before a time based trigger event after the time based trigger event contemporaneously with the time based trigger event or any combination thereof. In a particular embodiment the subscription service management system places a plurality of service increment messages in a time based queue and each of the messages is automatically sent to third party service providers before contemporaneously with or after the service increment to which the message relates. An example of a time based queue is illustrated in . In one embodiment the plurality of messages are placed in the time based queue at the beginning of a subscription period associated with the consumer and a pre defined time or time interval is assigned to each message. The subscription service management system tracks the subscription period over time and each message is automatically sent when the assigned time occurs or the assigned time interval has expired. Messages related to billing increments and messages related to service increments are placed within a same time based queue or within separate time based queues at the subscription service management system . Messages to be sent to one or more third party service providers and messages to be sent to one or more consumers may be placed within a same time based queue or within separate time based queues at the subscription service management system .

The subscription service management system may be configured to receive subscription payments from consumers via the financial network s . For example the consumer designates a single payment instrument such as a credit card with which all subscription payments are to be paid within a subscription period. At a time associated with each billing increment the subscription service management system sends a request for a subscription payment to a credit card service provider corresponding to the consumer designated credit card via one of the financial network s . In another example the subscription service management system sends a message requesting a subscription payment to the consumer computer at a time associated with each billing increment of the subscription period. The consumer provides data related to a payment instrument in response to each message and the subscription service management system requests payment from a financial service provider corresponding to the payment instrument.

Upon receiving a subscription payment from one of the financial service providers the subscription service management system is adapted to send at least a first portion of the subscription payment to the third party service provider financial account Further the subscription service management system may be adapted to transfer a second portion such as a transaction fee service fee or other amount to another financial account such as a financial account corresponding to a seller associated with the online site provided by the subscription service management system . In a particular embodiment the subscription service management system sends data to the third party service provider for example via the third party service provider subscription system indicating that a portion of at least one subscription payment has been sent to the third party service provider financial account .

The subscription service management system may send notifications to third party service provider systems such as the third party service provider subscription system indicating changes to a subscription period associated with a consumer changes to consumer account information e.g. billing address shipping address financial instrument data or any combination thereof. For example the subscription service management system receives data from the consumer computer indicating a request to terminate a subscription. The subscription service management system sends data to the third party service provider subscription system indicating the termination. Termination notifications may be sent to the third party service provider in real time at the end of a pre defined period e.g. where a consumer cancels a pre paid subscription plan the termination notification could be held until the end of the period when the cancellation actually takes effect as logs indicating all cancellations corresponding to a pre defined time range in response to a log retrieval command received from the third party service provider at predetermined time intervals e.g. nightly or any combination thereof.

Prior to terminating a subscription in response to a consumer request the subscription service management system determines whether the cancellation request meets one or more cancellation rules associated with the subscription based service plan. In one embodiment the subscription service management system can provide a list of possible cancellation reasons and prompt a consumer to select one of the reasons from the list. Upon termination the subscription service management system can collect any fees associated with cancellation cease messaging to the third party service provider the consumer or any combination thereof regarding service increments and billing increments perform other cancellation procedures or any combination thereof.

Metrics data indicating for example historical information related to activations cancellations etc. of subscription periods associated with different subscription based service plans may be provided to third party service providers by the subscription service management system . Such metric information may be limited to subscription based service plans offered by a particular third party service provider or may be information on all subscription based service plans offered via the subscription service management system .

In one embodiment the metrics are correlated in pairs by performing a cohort analysis. For example the metrics can correlate subscription periods activated at a certain time of year with a number of such subscription periods that were cancelled before their expiration. In a particular embodiment the subscription service management system generates and sends recommendations for creating new subscriptions to the third party service provider based on the metrics data. For instance particular metrics may show that subscriptions to exercise magazines that are started in January are canceled at the end of an initial subscription period more often than those started in June. Based on these metrics the subscription service management system may provide a recommendation that the third party service provider configure subscriptions offered to consumers in the month of January to include incentives for consumers to purchase such magazines with a longer subscription period e.g. a 2 year term instead of a 1 year term .

Referring to a second particular embodiment of a system to manage subscription based services is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a subscription service management server system that communicates with consumer computing devices such as the consumer computer via the network such as the Internet. In addition the server system communicates with a plurality of financial service providers via one or more financial networks . Further the server system communicates with a plurality of third party service provider subscription systems via a private data network .

The server system includes processing logic and a memory accessible to the processing logic. The server system includes a single computer server or multiple computer servers that independently or redundantly include processing logic and memory to provide one or more functions associated with managing subscription based services. In an illustrative embodiment the server system includes a network interface that facilitates communication between the server system and the network . In addition the server system includes a financial network interface that facilitates communication between the server system and the financial network s and a private network interface that facilitates communication between the server system and the private data network .

In a particular embodiment the memory includes a plurality of computing components each of which facilitates one or more functions of the server system with respect to managing subscription based services. The components include processor executable instructions. For instance the components include instructions that together comprise one or more software applications or other computer programs. In an alternative embodiment one or more of the components includes hardware logic adapted to perform one or more functions of the server system .

In a particular embodiment the memory includes a subscription configuration component that is executable by the processing logic to receive data from one of the third party service providers indicating a request to configure one or more subscriptions to be fulfilled by the third party service provider and to be managed via the server system . In a particular embodiment the subscription configuration component may be configured such that the server system receives configuration data from the third party service provider via the private data network . The configuration data includes details of a subscription based service plan to be fulfilled by the third party service provider during a subscription period associated with a subscriber. Plan details and other configuration data is stored in association with a subscriber account for instance at a subscription details store .

The memory may include an application programming interface API component that is executable by the processing logic to provide one or more APIs to the third party service provider via the private data network in response to a request to configure a subscription based service plan. Each API is adapted to receive particular details or other configuration data related to the subscription based service plan such as the details and other configuration data described with reference to . An example of an API to receive configuration data is illustrated in .

The memory may include a fraud detection component that is executable by the processing logic to perform one or more fraud check procedures with respect to the third party service provider the subscription based service plan the configuration or any combination thereof prior to establishing a third party service provider account prior to offering the subscription based service plan via the online site or any combination thereof. For example the server system may query the security data system s depicted in and receives data indicating whether the third party service provider the subscription based service plan details of the subscription based service plan or any combination thereof are known to be associated with fraudulent activity or for data indicating whether identification data or financial account information received at the server system is accurate with respect to the third party service provider.

The catalog component may be configured to store a plan name or other identifier associated with the subscription based service plan within a catalog of goods and services that are offered via a online site provided by the server system . The identifier is provided by the third party service provider or assigned by the server system . Further the catalog component may be configured to store a service provider identifier at least some details associated with the subscription based service plan or any combination thereof. The subscription configuration component may be configured such that the server system sends data to the third party service provider presenting an option to selectively offer or not offer the subscription based service plan via the online site and information related to the subscription based service plan can be stored at the catalog component in response to data sent by the third party service provider indicating an election to offer the subscription based service plan via the online site. In an alternative embodiment the catalog component can be combined with the subscription configuration component and can be configured to provide a subscription catalog that includes all plan configuration data and other data objects such as plan names provided by third party service providers.

A website component included in the memory that is executable by the processing logic can be configured such that the server system provides an online site of a seller or other provider via the network . For example a customer using the customer computer accesses the online site via the network using a web browser. In an illustrative embodiment the online site displays offers of products services subscriptions auctions or any combination thereof via one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs .

The website component is executable by the processing logic to receive a request from the customer computer via the online site to view information related to the subscription based service plan. For instance a consumer can view information related to a particular product or service at the online site via a GUI related to the product or service. The GUI includes a recommendation portion identifying additional recommended products and services including the subscription based service plan. The server system receives data indicating a selection of an identifier of the subscription based service plan and provides a GUI displaying information related to the subscription based service plan. The memory may include a recommendation engine component that is executable by the processing logic to access data related to products and services whose identifiers are stored at the catalog component and to determine recommended products services or any combination thereof to provide for display in a recommendation portion of a GUI related to another product or service.

The memory includes a search engine component that is executable by the processing logic and configured such that the server system may receive search criteria via the online site and identify products services or any combination thereof matching the search criteria by accessing data stored at the catalog component . For instance a consumer uses the consumer computer to submit search criteria to a search engine provided via the online site and an identifier of the subscription based service plan is returned with search results that match the search criteria. The consumer selects an identifier of the subscription based service plan from the search results and the server system provides a graphical user interface GUI to the consumer computer that includes information related to the subscription based service plan.

The website component is executable by the processing logic and configured to receive data from the consumer computer indicating a request to activate a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. For example the GUI includes a selectable indicator of an option to activate the service associated with the subscription based service plan such as a Subscribe Now indicator a Join Now indicator or other indicator and the subscription service management system receives data indicating a selection of the indicator.

The website component may be configured such that the server system determines whether the consumer has an account by accessing an account storage that stores general information related to consumer accounts with the online site operator such as names addresses account identifiers payment information account status and other account information. The website component may be executable by the processing logic to prompt the consumer to create an account in response to the consumer request to activate the service if the consumer does not have an account with the seller or other provider. In one embodiment the fraud detection component may be configured such that the server system performs one or more fraud check procedures with respect to the consumer prior to activating an account. In another embodiment the fraud detection component is executable by the processing logic to perform one or more fraud check procedures with respect to the consumer prior to signing a consumer up for a subscription based service plan prior to activating a subscription period associated with the consumer prior to the beginning of each new subscription period associated with the consumer or any combination thereof.

The memory also includes a period tracking component that is executable by the processing logic to activate a subscription period associated with the consumer during which the consumer is to receive the service from the third party service provider. Further the period tracking component is configured such that the server system tracks the subscription period over time and to track time based trigger events related to the subscription period. For example a subscription based service offered by the third party service provider is fulfilled in a single service increment such as a shipping discount service that is renewable annually. A renewal date represents a time based trigger event corresponding to the consumer s subscription period and the period tracking component is executable by the processing logic to determine a date time or any combination thereof at which an action corresponding to the renewal date is to be performed. In another example payment for a subscription based service is collected in single billing increments such as an annual renewal payment. The annual renewal payment date represents a time based trigger event corresponding to the consumer s subscription period and the period tracking component is executable by the processing logic to determine a date time or any combination thereof at which the annual renewal payment is to be collected.

The memory includes a notification component that is executable by the processing logic and which may be configured such that the server system sends a notification to the third party service provider subscription system indicating that a subscription period associated with the consumer has been activated. In one embodiment such a notification includes account information related to the consumer . The notification component is executable by the processing logic to send activation notifications to the third party service provider in real time i.e. as subscription periods are activated with respect to individual consumers . In another embodiment activation notifications are sent as logs indicating all activations corresponding to a pre defined time range. In still another embodiment activation notifications are sent in response to a notification log retrieval command received from the third party service provider. Notification preferences are received as part of configuration data related to a subscription based service plan and the notification component is executable by the processing logic to send or provide activation notifications to the third party service provider according to the preferences.

Further the notification component may be configured such that the server system sends at least one message related to a time based trigger event to the third party service provider during a subscription period associated with a consumer. For example the notification component is executable by the processing logic to send an e mail to the third party service provider regarding a time for a next service increment a time for a next billing increment or any combination thereof. The notification component may also be configured such that the server system sends at least one message related to a time based trigger event to the consumer computer during a subscription period associated with the consumer. For instance the notification component is executable by the processing logic to send an e mail to the third party service provider regarding a time for a next service increment a time for a next billing increment or any combination thereof.

The notification component may be further configured such that the server system sends messages related to trigger events before a trigger event after the trigger event occurs contemporaneously with the occurrence of the trigger event or any combination thereof. For example the notification component may be executable by the processing logic to place a plurality of service increment messages in one or more time based queues when a subscription period is activated and each of the messages is automatically sent before contemporaneously with or after the time based trigger event to which the message relates. An example of a time based queue is illustrated in .

The notification component may also be configured such that the server system sends notifications to the third party service provider indicating changes to a subscription period associated with a consumer changes to consumer account information e.g. billing address shipping address financial instrument data or any combination thereof. Termination notifications may be sent to the third party service provider in real time as logs indicating cancellations corresponding to a pre defined time range in response to a log retrieval command received from the third party service provider at predetermined time intervals e.g. nightly or any combination thereof.

The notification component is executable by the processing logic and is configured to send notification messages via e mail via simple object access protocol SOAP messaging via other protocols or technologies that facilitate pushing messages to the third party service provider or consumer or any combination thereof. Alternatively the notification component can be executable by the processing logic and can be configured to provide such messages in response to SOAP messages API calls e mails or other communications received from the third party service provider or consumer to pick up or otherwise pull messages from the server system .

The memory further includes a payment collection component that is executable by the processing logic and configured such that the server system receives subscription payments from consumers via the financial network s . In an illustrative embodiment the consumer designates a single payment instrument such as a credit card with which all subscription payments are to be paid within a subscription period. At a time associated with each billing increment the payment collection component is executable by the processing logic to send a request for a subscription payment to a credit card service provider corresponding to the consumer designate credit card via one of the financial network s . In another example the payment collection component is executable by the processing logic to send a message requesting a subscription payment to the consumer computer at a time associated with each billing increment of the subscription period. The consumer provides data related to a payment instrument in response to each message and the payment collection component is executable by the processing logic to request payment from a financial service provider corresponding to the payment instrument.

Upon receiving a subscription payment from one of the financial service providers the payment collection component is executable by the processing logic to send at least a first portion of the subscription payment to a financial account of the third party service provider providing the subscription based service plan to which the payment relates. The payment collection component may also be configured such that the server system transfers a second portion such as a transaction fee service fee or other amount to another financial account such as a financial account corresponding to the seller or other provider associated with the online site. The payment collection component may be configured such that the server system sends data to the third party service provider indicating that the subscription payment was received and that a portion of at least one subscription payment has been sent to the third party service provider financial account.

The memory may also include a metrics component that is executable by the processing logic to provide metrics data to the third party service provider. The metrics data indicates for example historical information related to activations cancellations or any combination thereof of subscription periods associated with each of the different subscription based service plans offered by the third party service provider and managed via the server system . In one embodiment the metrics are correlated in pairs by performing a cohort analysis. In a particular embodiment the server system generates and sends recommendations to the third party service provider for creating new subscription based service plans based on the metrics data.

Referring to a third particular embodiment of a system to manage subscription based services is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a third party service provider subscription system that is adapted to communicate with a subscription service management system via a private network . In a particular embodiment the subscription service management system communicates with a third party service provider financial account via one or more financial networks .

The third party service provider subscription system includes processing logic and memory that is accessible to the processing logic . In a particular embodiment the third party service provider subscription system includes a private network interface that facilitates communication between the third party service provider subscription system and the private network . Alternatively a virtual private network VPN interface or an Internet interface having an encrypted connection may be used to facilitate network communication between the third party service provider subscription system and the subscription service management system . The third party service provider subscription system also includes a plurality of consumer interfaces that facilitate communication between the third party service provider subscription system and one or more systems adapted to receive communications from consumers.

For example the third party service provider subscription system includes an interactive voice response IVR interface that can be coupled to an IVR system . A consumer can use a consumer phone to communicate with the IVR system via a voice network . Further the third party service provider subscription system includes a call center interface that can be coupled to a call center . A consumer can use the consumer phone to communicate with an agent at the call center via the voice network . In addition the third party service provider subscription system includes a web interface that can be coupled to a web server . A consumer can use a consumer computer to communicate with a third party service provider website provided by the web server via the Internet .

The memory of the third party subscription system includes a plurality of components each of which can facilitate one or more functions of the server system with respect to managing subscription based services. In a particular embodiment the components include processor executable instructions. The components include for example instructions that together comprise one or more software applications or other computer programs. In an alternative embodiment one or more of the components includes hardware logic adapted to perform one or more functions of the third party subscription system .

In a particular embodiment the memory includes one or more interface components that are executable by the processing logic to receive data via the consumer interfaces . The interface component s are executable by the processing logic to communicate information related to one or more subscription based service plans and to receive requests from consumers to activate one or more services associated with one or more subscription based service plans offered by the third party service provider. Data related to the subscription based service plan s may be stored at a subscription plan store .

The memory may include an activation component that is executable by the processing logic and configured such that the third party subscription system activates services related to the subscription based service plan s offered by the third party service provider in response to the consumer requests. As discussed above activation of a service includes establishing a consumer account starting a subscription period collecting consumer billing and delivery information physical or electronic other activation procedures or any combination thereof.

The memory may include a management communication component that is executable by the processing logic and configured such that the third party subscription system sends and receives data with the subscription service management system . For example the management communication component is executable by the processing logic to communicate identification data and financial account data related to the third party service provider to the subscription service management system . Additionally the management communication component is executable by the processing logic to retrieve details of a subscription based service plan to be managed via the subscription service management system from the subscription plan store and to communicate the details to the subscription service management system .

The management communication component may be configured such that the third party subscription system receives data from the subscription service management system indicating an option to selectively offer or not offer the subscription based service plan via an online site provided by the subscription service management system . For example the management communication component may be configured such that the third party subscription system sends data to the subscription service management system indicating a selection to make the subscription based service plan accessible to consumers via the online site.

In another embodiment the third party service provider has an option to elect to not offer the subscription based service plan via the online site and the management communication component is executable by the processing logic to send data to the subscription service management system indicating a selection to not make the subscription based service plan accessible to consumers via the online site. Rather the third party service provider offers the subscription based service plan via one or more of the consumer interfaces .

The third party service provider subscription system receives data from one or more of the consumer interfaces indicating a request from a consumer to receive a service corresponding to a subscription based service plan. The management communication component may be configured such that the third party subscription system sends data indicating the request and a subscription period associated with the consumer to the subscription service management system . The subscription service management system activates a subscription period associated with the consumer. In a particular embodiment the management communication component is executable by the processing logic to receive one or more notifications or messages from the subscription service management system during the subscription period.

Referring to a particular embodiment of a routine for managing subscription services is illustrated. At block a subscription service management system receives subscription plan configuration data. The configuration data includes details of a subscription based service plan of a third party service provider. As discussed above the subscription based service plan is offered via an online site.

Moving to block the subscription service management system receives a request from a consumer to receive a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan available via the online site which may be an electronic commerce site. In another embodiment the request can be received from the consumer via a web service application programming interface API originating from within a desktop application that is connected to the Internet e.g. Quicken . Proceeding to block the subscription service management system activates the service with respect to the consumer where the consumer receives the subscription based service during a subscription period that may be selected by the consumer. In a particular embodiment the third party service provider fulfills the service requested by the consumer during the subscription period in one or more service increments. Continuing to decision block the subscription service management system determines whether a date time or any combination thereof related to a service increment has been reached. If the subscription service management system determines for example that a date time or any combination thereof related to the service increment has not been reached the routine advances to decision block . Conversely if the subscription service management system determines that the date related to the service increment has been reached the routine proceeds to block and a service increment message is sent to the third party service provider informing the third party service provider that the date at which the service increment is to be provided to the consumer has been reached. The routine then moves to decision block .

At decision block the subscription service management system determines whether a date time or any combination thereof related to a billing increment has been reached. If the subscription service management system determines for example that a date time or any combination thereof related to the billing increment has not been reached the routine advances to decision block . Conversely if the subscription service management system determines that the date and time have been reached the routine proceeds to block and a billing increment message is sent to the third party service provider informing the third party service provider that a date and time at which a subscription payment is to be collected from the consumer has been reached. The routine then moves to decision block .

In alternative embodiments service increment messages billing increment messages or any combination thereof are sent within a pre defined period before or after the date time or any combination thereof at which service increments or billing increments are to occur or have occurred. For example billing increment messages may be sent to a third party service provider a fixed period of time e.g. five days in advance of the date and or time increment has been reached.

Proceeding to decision block the subscription service management system determines whether the subscription period associated with the consumer has ended. If the subscription service management system determines that the subscription period has not ended the routine returns to decision block and continues. On the other hand if the subscription service management system determines that the subscription period has ended the routine terminates as illustrated by block .

Referring to a second particular embodiment of a routine for managing subscription services is illustrated. At block a subscription service management system receives a request from a third party service provider to configure a customized subscription based service plan. Moving to decision block in a particular embodiment the subscription service management system determines whether the third party service provider is registered with the subscription service management system. If the subscription service management system determines that the third party service is registered the routine advances to block . Whereas if the subscription service management system determines that the third party service provider is not registered with the subscription service management system the routine proceeds to block and the subscription service management system obtains identification data and financial account data from the third party service provider. In one embodiment the subscription service management system performs one or more fraud check procedures with respect to the third party service provider after receiving the data.

At block the subscription service management system receives subscription plan configuration data from the third party service provider. Moving to decision block the subscription service management system determines whether the subscription based service plan is to be offered via an online site to which the subscription service management system is accessible. For example the subscription service management system prompts the third party service provider to indicate selection of an option to offer the subscription based services plan via the online site or to not offer the subscription based services plan via the online site.

If it is determined at decision block that the subscription based service plan is to be offered via the online site at block the subscription service management system may add an identifier configuration data or any combination thereof associated with the subscription based service plan to a searchable catalogue and recommendation engine associated with the online site. Advancing to block the subscription service management system receives a request to receive a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan from a consumer via the online site. The routine then moves to block .

Returning to decision block if the subscription service management system determines that the subscription based service plan is not to be offered via the online site the routine proceeds to block . For example the third party service offers the subscription based service plan via a third party service provider website or other consumer interface. At block the subscription service management system receives data from a third party service provider system indicating a consumer request to activate a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. The data includes information related to the consumer such as account information and a subscription period determined for the consumer by the third party service provider system. The routine then moves to block .

Moving to block the subscription service management system activates a subscription period associated with the consumer. In a particular embodiment the third party service provider fulfills the service requested by the consumer during the subscription period in one or more service increments. Continuing to decision block the subscription service management system determines whether an aggregation period ends. If an aggregation period has ended the routine proceeds to block and the subscription service management system sends metrics data the third party service provider. As discussed herein the metrics data can include correlated historical data related to activations cancellations and other aspects of subscription based service plans offered by the third party service provider.

Advancing to decision block the subscription service management system determines whether a date time or any combination thereof related to a service increment has been reached. If the subscription service management system determines for example that a date related to the service increment has not been reached the routine advances to decision block . Conversely if the subscription service management system determines that the date related to the service increment has been reached the routine proceeds to block and the subscription service management system sends a service increment message to the third party service provider informing the third party service provider that the date at which the service increment is to be provided to the consumer has been reached. The routine then moves to decision block .

At decision block the subscription service management system determines whether a date time or any combination thereof related to a billing increment has been reached. If the subscription service management system determines for example that a date and time related to the billing increment have not been reached the routine advances to decision block . Conversely if the subscription service management system determines that the date and time have been reached the routine proceeds to block and the subscription service management system sends a billing increment message to the third party service provider informing the third party service provider that a date and time at which a subscription payment is to be collected from the consumer has been reached. At block the subscription service management system receives a subscription payment and distributes portions of the subscription payment among various accounts such as a third party service provider account and a retailer account. The routine then moves to decision block .

Proceeding to decision block the subscription service management system determines whether the subscription period associated with the consumer has ended. If the subscription service management system determines that the subscription period has not ended the routine returns to decision block and continues. On the other hand if the subscription service management system determines that the subscription period has ended the routine terminates at .

Referring to a third particular embodiment of a routine for managing subscription services is illustrated. At block a subscription service management system provides a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs to a third party service provider via an online site. Moving to block the subscription service management system receives configuration data that includes details of a subscription based service plan via the APIs. At block the subscription service management system screens the subscription plan details for compliance with particular policies such as whether the subject matter of the subscription based service plan includes adult content illegal content perishable food items or other subject matter prohibited by the policies.

Continuing to block the subscription service management system assigns searchable API objects to one or more of the details of the subscription based service plan and can instantiate the API objects in a catalogue that is searchable via the online site. Moving to block the subscription service management system receives a request from a consumer via the online site to receive a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. Advancing to block the subscription service management system performs one or more fraud check procedures to verify the identity of the consumer and information provided by the consumer. Proceeding to block the subscription service management system activates a service associated with the subscription based service plan for a subscription period associated with the consumer and can notify the third party service provider of the activation. Such notification includes information related to the consumer.

Advancing to block in an illustrative embodiment the subscription service management system places a plurality of notification messages in a time based queue stored at the subscription service management system. The notification messages relates to one or more service increments one or more billing increments or any combination thereof. Further the notification messages can be targeted to the third party service provider the consumer or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the notification messages are placed in a plurality of time based queues stored at the subscription service management system.

At decision block the subscription service management system determines whether a time based trigger event related to the subscription period associated with the consumer has been reached. A time based trigger event includes for example a pre defined time prior to after or concurrent with a date or time corresponding to a service increment or billing increment. If the subscription service management system determines that a time based trigger event has not been reached the routine continues to decision block . On the other hand if the subscription service management system determines that a time based trigger event has been reached the routine proceeds to block and a next message in the time based queue is automatically sent. The routine then proceeds to decision block .

Proceeding to decision block the subscription service management system determines whether it has received updates to the subscription based service plan. If updates are not received the routine proceeds to decision block . Whereas if updates are received the routine moves to block and the subscription service management system updates the subscription based service plan offered via the online site. Services activated with respect to consumers may also be altered to reflect the updates.

At decision block the subscription service management system determines whether the subscription period associated with the consumer has ended. If the subscription service management system determines that the subscription period has not ended the routine can return to decision block and continue. On the other hand if the subscription service management system determines that the subscription period has ended the routine terminates at .

Referring to a fourth particular embodiment of a routine for managing subscription services is illustrated. At block a third party service provider registers with a subscription service management system via an account creation interface at an online electronic commerce e commerce site. Moving to block the third party service provider receives confirmation that information provided by the third party service provider during registration has been verified via one or more fraud check procedures. At block the third party service provider provides details of a subscription based service plan to the subscription service management system via a subscription plan configuration interface at the e commerce site. In an illustrative embodiment the routine proceeds to block and the third party service provider interacts with the subscription plan configuration interface to indicate a number of concurrently available subscription plans having the submitted details that are to be offered via the e commerce site.

Continuing to block the third party service provider receives data indicating an option to selectively offer or not offer the subscription plan s via the e commerce site. In a particular embodiment the routine advances to block and the third party service provider sends data to the subscription service management system indicating a selection to offer the subscription plan s via the e commerce site.

At block the subscription service management system receives an activation notification indicating that a subscription period associated with a consumer has been activated by the subscription service management system. Moving to block the third party service provider receives a message from the subscription service management system indicating that a billing increment related to the subscription period has occurred. Proceeding to decision block the third party service provider determines whether data received from the subscription service management system indicates that the consumer has remitted a subscription payment. If the third party service provider determines that such data has been received the routine continues to decision block . Conversely if the third party service provider determines that data indicating that the consumer has remitted the subscription payment has been received the routine advances to block and the third party service provider requests the subscription payment from the consumer or request that the consumer remit the subscription payment to the subscription service management system via the e commerce site. The routine then moves to decision block .

At decision block the third party service provider determines whether to cancel or update the subscription plan s offered via the e commerce site. If the third party service provider determines to cancel or update the subscription plans s the routine proceeds to block and the third party service provider sends update or cancellation data to the subscription service management system. The routine terminates at .

Referring to a fifth particular embodiment of a routine for managing subscription services is illustrated. At block a third party service provider registers with a subscription service management system via an account creation interface at an online electronic commerce e commerce site. Moving to block the third party service provider receives confirmation that information provided by the third party service provider during registration has been verified via one or more fraud check procedures. At block the third party service provider provides details of a subscription based service plan to the subscription service management system via a subscription plan configuration interface at the e commerce site. Continuing to block the third party service provider receives data indicating an option to selectively offer or not offer the subscription plan s via the e commerce site. In a particular embodiment the routine advances to block and the third party service provider sends data to the subscription service management system indicating a selection to not offer the subscription based service plan via the e commerce site. Rather the third party service provider offers the subscription based service plan via one or more consumer interfaces of the third party service provider.

At block the third party service provider receives a consumer request via one of the consumer interfaces to receive a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. Moving to block the third party service provider sends an activation notification to the subscription service management system informing the subscription service management system that a subscription period associated with the consumer is to be activated. Proceeding to block the third party service provider receives one or more messages from the subscription service management system each message indicating that a time based trigger event has occurred. Continuing to decision block the third party service provider determines whether the subscription period associated with the consumer has ended. If the subscription service management system determines that the subscription period has not ended the routine returns to block and continues. On the other hand if the third party service provider determines that the subscription period has ended the routine terminates at .

Referring to a sixth particular embodiment of a routine for managing subscription services is illustrated. At block a subscription service management system provides an online site via a network such as the Internet. Moving to block the subscription service management system provides a graphical user interface GUI to a consumer via a web browser where the GUI includes details of a subscription based service plan offered by a third party service provider. In an illustrative embodiment the subscription service management system provides the GUI in response to a selection of an identifier of the subscription based service plan from search results or recommendations provided by the online site.

Proceeding to block the subscription service management system receives data from the consumer indicating a request to activate a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. Continuing to decision block in a particular embodiment the subscription service management system determines whether the consumer has an account with the retailer. If the subscription service management system determines that the consumer does not have an account the routine advances to block and the subscription service management system prompts the consumer to create an account. The routine then moves to decision block .

At decision block in a particular embodiment the subscription service management system determines whether the consumer has satisfied an activation condition associated with the subscription based service plan such as an initial payment or providing data related to a valid credit card. If the subscription service management system determines that the consumer has not satisfied an activation condition the routine terminates at . Alternatively the subscription service management system prompts the consumer to satisfy the activation condition before the routine terminates. On the other hand if the subscription service management system determines that the consumer has satisfied the activation condition the routine proceeds to block and the subscription service management system sends data indicating activation of a service corresponding to the subscription based service plan. Additionally the subscription service management system sends account information related to the consumer to the third party service provider.

At block in a particular embodiment the subscription service management system sends one or more messages to the third party service provider the consumer or any combination thereof where each message indicates that a time based trigger event such as service increment or billing increment has occurred. Moving to decision block the subscription service management system determines whether the consumer has edited his or her account information. If the subscription service management system determines that the consumer has edited his or her account information e.g. billing address shipping address financial instrument data the routine proceeds to block and the subscription service management system sends changes to the account information to the third party service provider. In one embodiment the consumer can update account information via a one click update feature provided via the online site and the updated account information can be sent to all third party service providers from whom the consumer receives subscription based services. The routine terminates at .

Referring to a particular illustrative embodiment of a data structure to receive configuration data related to a subscription based service plan is illustrated and designated generally . The data structure can be a data structure of an application programming interface API to create a subscription based service plan. The data structure includes a plurality of fields such as a service provider identification a plan description a soft descriptor and other fields. Each field can relate to a data type . For example the subscription plan description can correspond to a character string data type. In another example a Metadata field can relate to a MetadataRequest data type. A description of each of the fields is provided via the data structure . The descriptions assists a third party service provider in providing complete and accurate configuration data.

Referring to a second particular illustrative embodiment of a data structure to receive configuration data related to a subscription based service plan is illustrated and designated generally . The data structure can be a data structure that includes additional data objects related to creation of a subscription based service plan. The data structure includes a plurality of fields such as fields related to a ScheduleItemRequest data type fields related to an OfferRequest data type fields related to a PromotionRequest data type and fields related to other data types. Each field can relate to a data type . A description of each of the fields is provided via the data structure . The descriptions assists a third party service provider in providing complete and accurate configuration data.

Referring to a particular illustrative embodiment of a time based queue is illustrated and designated generally . The time based queue includes a plurality of virtual queue positions . Each virtual queue position is associated with a measure of time such as a particular calendar date . Further one or more messages are placed in each virtual queue position. The messages relate to one or more time based trigger events such as service increments and billing increments and are targeted to one or more service providers consumers or any combination thereof. Each of the messages includes information indicating that a trigger event has passed is occurring or will occur within a pre defined time period according to messaging preferences designated by the third party service provider.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosed embodiments are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be reduced. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments that fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

