---

title: Vehicle entertainment and gaming system
abstract: An entertainment system is for a vehicle and includes a vehicle environment sensor apparatus that captures data indicative of the vehicle's environment and that generates a vehicle environment data feed. A video game console is electronically coupled to the vehicle environment sensor apparatus and has an application program interface. The video game console receives the vehicle environment data feed, operates a game medium, and generates a video output signal based on both the game medium and the vehicle environment data feed. At least one controller is communicatively coupled to the video game console and directs the operation of the game medium. A display unit communicatively coupled with the application program interface receives the video output signal and displays images dependent upon the video output signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07756602&OS=07756602&RS=07756602
owner: Panasonic Automotive Systems Company of America division of Panasonic Corporation of North America
number: 07756602
owner_city: Peachtree
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070614
---
The present invention relates to vehicle entertainment systems and more particularly vehicle entertainment systems including gaming capability.

Many vehicles such as cars trucks vans and recreational vehicles RVs are equipped with an entertainment system capable of playing audio video media such as DVD movies. Although these systems have made vehicle travel more pleasant for passengers it may be desirable to have other forms of entertainment available. For instance passengers often enjoy playing games while traveling in a vehicle. Such games may include video games played on portable handheld video game units. However traditional portable gaming units allow only a single player and thus do not promote family interaction. These games are also limited in their presentation by the video game software and thus isolate the player from the vehicle the surrounding environment including passing landmarks and landscape and other occupants. Other games include traditional family games such as I Spy Slug Bug and Spot the License Plate all of which involve spotting objects in the landscape passing by the vehicle. These games promote passenger interaction and interest in the surrounding landscape but may not capture the attention of the technologically savvy passenger.

Accordingly a need remains for a vehicle entertainment system that captures the technological interest of the passenger while promoting interaction between and interest in the vehicle passengers vehicle location and vehicle environment.

The present invention provides an entertainment and gaming system and related components for use in a vehicle. The entertainment and gaming system receives data feeds from other systems on the vehicle that gather data regarding the location and environment of the vehicle. Such location and environment data which may include video data geographic data audio data navigation data and weather related data to name a few has traditionally been used only for operation of the vehicle or for presentation of information to the user. According to the present invention the entertainment and gaming system may incorporate the location and environment data feeds into the display of the games entertainment and may factor the data feeds into the processing of the games entertainment. For example how the entertainment and gaming system responds to inputs from the user and processes the games entertainment may depend upon the content of the data feeds. Thus while the user is gaming or otherwise being electronically entertained the user may interact with be aware of and learn about the environment and location through which the vehicle is traveling. For purposes of incorporating location and environment data into the games entertainment the system may include sensors for capturing location and environment data that has not traditionally been captured for utilitarian purposes.

In one particular aspect the invention provides an entertainment system for a vehicle. The system includes a vehicle environment sensor apparatus that captures data indicative of the vehicle s environment and that generates a vehicle environment data feed. A video game console is electronically coupled to the vehicle environment sensor apparatus and has an application program interface. The video game console receives the vehicle environment data feed operates a game medium and generates a video output signal based on both the game medium and the vehicle environment data feed. At least one controller is communicatively coupled to the video game console and directs the operation of the game medium. A display unit communicatively coupled with the application program interface receives the video output signal and displays images dependent upon the video output signal.

In another aspect the entertainment system includes means for capturing and transmitting environmental data related to the vehicle s environment. An electronic module is electronically coupled to the capturing means. The electronic module receives the environmental data operates an entertainment medium and generates a video output signal based on both the entertainment medium and the environmental data. A display unit is communicatively coupled with the electronic module. The display unit receives the video output signal and displays images dependent upon the video output signal.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a method of operating an entertainment system for a vehicle including capturing images of the vehicle s environment. An entertainment medium including graphic image data is provided. The environmental images and the graphic image data are combined to form a composite video output signal. Composite graphic images that are dependent upon the composite video output signal are displayed.

An advantage of the present invention is that existing sources of environmental and location data on the vehicle may be used to enhance the operation of the gaming entertainment system.

Another advantage is that the user may remain aware of and learn about the environment surrounding the vehicle even while the user plays a video game or watches video entertainment.

Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views. Although the drawings represent embodiments of the present invention the drawings are not necessarily to scale and certain features may be exaggerated in order to better illustrate and explain the present invention. Although the exemplification set out herein illustrates embodiments of the invention in several forms the embodiments disclosed below are not intended to be exhaustive or to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention to the precise forms disclosed.

The embodiments hereinafter disclosed are not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed in the following description. Rather the embodiments are chosen and described so that others skilled in the art may utilize its teachings.

Referring first to entertainment system as installed in vehicle according to one embodiment of the present invention will now be described. Vehicle includes rear passenger seats and front passenger seat . Entertainment system generally includes an electronic module visual display unit game controllers vehicle environment sensor apparatus and audio unit . In one embodiment electronic module is in the form of a video game console.

Video game console may be positioned near rear passenger seats for easy access by rear passengers but may also be positioned in alternative locations. Video game console is adapted to receive read and or operate video game software modules referred to herein as video game media. Video game media may be in any known form including for example video game software stored on storage devices such as CDs DVDs hard drives or other software storage devices. Video game media may also be in the form of on line internet access video games. Alternatively video game console may be adapted to electronically couple to external game systems. Video game console may include a processor and an application program interface which cooperate to read and operate the video game media and communicate with the other components of entertainment system . As discussed in further detail below the application program interface interfaces the video game media with the other components of entertainment system to produce a virtual world video game. Video game console and the application program interface in particular may also be directly adapted to receive audio visual media such as am fm radio signals satellite radio or global positioning system GPS signals and audio storage media such as MP3 files CDs and DVDs. Accordingly video console may be equipped with an am fm receiver satellite receiver MP3 or iPod docking station secure digital SD card port and or CD DVD reader . Alternatively entertainment system may include head unit which is adapted to receive and read the audio visual media discussed above. Video game console may be electronically coupled to head unit to thereby enable console to indirectly receive audio video media.

Video game console may also be equipped with a voice activation unit to allow console to be operated by the user s voice. In addition console may include a wireless connectivity device to allow console to transmit and receive wireless communications as described in further detail below.

Referring to visual display unit is electronically coupled to console and may be electronically coupled to the application programming interface in particular. Visual display unit may be in any known form. For example visual display unit may be in the form of a single fold down flat panel screen mounted to the roof of vehicle . Alternatively visual display unit may be in the form of multiple display screens mounted in the headrests of front passenger seats and rear passenger seats .

Visual display unit may be electronically coupled to console by either wireless or wired connections. The dashed lines of are intended only to indicate an electronic connection and not the type of connection. In other words the dashed lines of indicate only that console is electronically coupled to the other components of vehicle entertainment system and not that such coupling is wired or wireless is in series or in parallel or has any other particular characteristic.

Referring still to controllers may be electronically coupled to console . Controllers may be in the form of any known video game controller and may include multi directional buttons joystick thumbpad or buttons. Controllers may be coupled to console via wires or a wireless connection.

Referring still to as noted above vehicle entertainment system may also include vehicle environment sensor apparatuses or environmental sensors that may be electrically coupled to console . Each of the vehicle environment sensor apparatuses may produce its own respective vehicle environment data feed. Sensor apparatus is adapted to capture and transmit data relating to or indicative of vehicle and its internal and external environment. Sensor apparatus may include camera mounted near the front of vehicle and configured to capture real time video images of the external surroundings of the vehicle. Sensor apparatus may include multiple cameras which may include night vision capability. Thus entertainment system may enable the vehicle s passengers to be visually aware of the vehicle s environment even when there is no daylight and viewing the outside through the window is difficult. In one particular embodiment camera is mounted facing forward near the front bumper not shown or rearview mirror of vehicle and is wide angled to provide real time video images of the view from front passenger seat facing forward. Camera generates a vehicle environment data feed including the real time digital video images.

Additionally or alternatively sensor apparatus may include a navigational system built into console and adapted to receive data from GPS satellite . Console may receive from GPS satellite data relating to the environment of vehicle such as three dimensional mapping including city state road building and attraction information relating to the location of vehicle .

Sensor apparatus may include vehicle diagnostic system DS and or climate control system CC . Vehicle diagnostic system obtains data from vehicle sensors and provides a data feed that may include vehicle information such as speed of vehicle distance traveled headlights on off vehicle condition or any other vehicle features conditions. Climate control system may provide a data feed that includes the temperature outside and or inside of vehicle .

Sensor apparatus may include the capability of capturing video images of moving objects surrounding the vehicle including for example pedestrians animals and other vehicles such that the images of the moving objects may be incorporated into the operation and display of entertainment system . For instance sensor apparatus may include thermal imaging capability and or video processing software that detects moving objects by comparing the positions of discrete objects within sequential video frames.

Sensor apparatus may include the capability of detecting the heading direction in which the vehicle is traveling such as through navigational data or through on vehicle sensors. In one embodiment the heading direction and or speed of a virtual vehicle included in the game and or video of entertainment system may be programmed to follow or mimic the actual heading direction and or speed of the actual vehicle in real time in order to provide the user with a full sensory entertainment experience. It is also possible for the outputs of on vehicle sensors that track the various movements of the suspension system to be incorporated into the processing of the video game.

Referring still to audio unit is electronically coupled to console . Console as discussed in further detail below generates an audio output signal. Audio unit is adapted to receive the audio output signal and produce or broadcast sound in response to the audio output signal. Audio unit may be electronically coupled to console by any means including for example a wired or wireless connection. Audio unit may be in any form capable of producing sound. For instance as illustrated in audio unit may be in the form of multiple speakers mounted throughout vehicle . Alternatively audio unit may be in the form of audio headphones or an audio headset.

Turning now to one embodiment of the operation of entertainment system will now be described. As illustrated in step the user may first turn on console and insert a video game medium such as a video game disc. Console may prompt the user to select a game mode by displaying a prompt on display unit . The prompt may ask the user to select between game only mode and virtual environment mode. As illustrated in step the user uses controller to select the game mode in a conventional manner. If the user selects game only then the processor and application program interface of console cooperate to read and execute the video game media and communicate with visual display unit audio unit and controller to allow the user to play the video media in the conventional manner. If the user selects virtual environment mode as shown in step video game console initiates communication with sensor apparatuses step . Sensor apparatuses capture data regarding the vehicle s environment such as images of the area surrounding the vehicle the speed of the vehicle three dimensional maps of the vehicle the temperature and weather conditions and other data using camera satellite diagnostic system and climate control system . By way of example camera obtains real time video images of the road buildings and other features in the vicinity of the vehicle as the vehicle travels. Camera generates a vehicle environment data feed including these real time video images.

As illustrated in step video game console may receive this data feed and using the application program interface may combine the video images of this data feed with the video images coded in the video game media. Generally video game console may generate video output audio output and tactile output signals based upon both the vehicle environment data feed and processing of the software on the video game media such as a disc. In a more specific embodiment video game console generates a video output signal based on both the data feed from camera and the code of the game media. More generally the video output signal may be at least partially based on any number of data feeds from any number of vehicle environment sensor apparatuses . Video game console communicates the video output signal to video display unit as illustrated in and video display unit displays images dependent upon the video output signal. Particularly video display unit may display an image based on both the virtual real time video images and the video game media see step in . For instance considering the video game PONG the image on video display unit may include the interactive elements of PONG superimposed on the real time video images produced by camera of the vehicle s surrounding environment. As the interactive PONG balls or cubes contact the buildings in the image the buildings are damaged and the balls are bounced back. It is possible for the captured environment data to not just influence the image on the video display unit but to also be used by the game processor in processing the results or score of the game. For example the shape of a building captured from the surrounding environment may be displayed on video display unit and may also be used by the processor to define the boundaries that a game player must hit with a virtual ball in order to have the ball bounce back and stay in play which may garner the player additional points or favorable results within the context of the game.

Similarly in the case of a painting program of a video game media the interactive components of the painting game such as a paint brush may be superimposed over the real time video images thereby allowing users to virtually paint the passing landscape. In this case the boundaries of the captured images may define the area of the display to which the virtual paint sticks or adheres. 

Simultaneously with the video output signal the application program interface of video game console generates an audio output signal and communicates the audio output signal to audio unit . The audio output signal may include processed data from the video game media and or data from the data feed received from sensor apparatus .

Referring back to rear passenger seats may be equipped with a tactile stimulation device such as a rumble or vibration mechanism. Video game console and the application programming interface in particular may be electronically coupled to the rumble or vibration mechanism and may be adapted to produce a tactile stimulation signal in response to execution of the video game media. The tactile stimulation signal is received by the vibration mechanism which causes rear passenger seats to vibrate or rumble in response to action occurring on video display unit . Thus the tactile stimulation device provides a passenger with a tactile sensation in response to the tactile stimulation signal.

Such tactile stimulations provided by entertainment system may be directed at senses other than the sense of touch. For example such tactile stimulations may be directed at a game player s sense of balance his sense of the force of gravity his sense of centripetal forces or visceral senses.

The embodiment illustrated in shows sensor apparatuses communicating directly with console and shows audio units coupled directly to console . However in another embodiment as illustrated in entertainment system includes a console that may communicate indirectly with audio units and sensor apparatuses through head unit . Such an arrangement may facilitate the installation of entertainment system in existing vehicles that already have one or more of sensor apparatuses 

One embodiment of a method of the present invention for operating an entertainment system is illustrated in . In a first step images of the vehicle s environment are captured. For example camera may be used to capture images of the environment surrounding the vehicle in real time. The environmental images may include images of buildings other vehicles trees and other living beings etc. that are surrounding the vehicle. Rather than or in addition to using a camera to capture surrounding images in real time it is also possible to use GPS to determine the location of the vehicle and then download from a database satellite photograph images that are associated with the vehicle s location. In a next step an entertainment medium including graphic image data is provided. The entertainment medium may provide either passive entertainment such as a movie that the user watches or interactive entertainment such as a video game in which the user has some control and influence over images that are displayed on display . The entertainment medium may be in any of the forms listed at in for example including video game software on line web access video games or a video game system. The software may be stored on a hard disk within the vehicle or may be stored on a portable storage device such as a compact disc or memory stick for example. The entertainment medium may include graphic image data that defines graphic images that may be displayed on display . It is also possible for the entertainment medium to include textual data that defines text characters that may be displayed on display such as captions or information regarding a game.

In step the environmental images and the graphic image data are combined to form a composite video output signal. That is elements of the environmental images captured in step and elements of the graphic image data from the entertainment medium may be combined to form a composite video output signal. Portions of the images of the environment surrounding the vehicle may be incorporated into the framework of the display scheme provided by the entertainment medium. In one particular embodiment via known image processing algorithms discrete objects in the environmental images are identified. For example the group of pixels that forms the image of any discrete object in the environmental images such as a building person vehicle mountain etc. is identified. The discrete object images may be extracted from the environmental images and combined with the graphic image data from the entertainment medium to form the composite video output signal. Elements of the graphic image data from the entertainment medium that are included in the composite video output signal may include background features settings characters or game pieces for example. Discrete object elements from the environmental images may be superimposed on or digitally integrated with background features and settings from the graphic image data from the entertainment medium to form the composite video output signal. Similarly characters or game pieces from the graphic image data may be superimposed on or digitally integrated with the discrete objects from the environmental images to form the composite video output signal. In a final step composite graphic images are displayed the composite graphic images being dependent upon the composite video output signal. For example display may be used to display composite graphic images that are based upon the composite video output signal that is formed by combining the environmental images and the entertainment medium s graphic image data.

In one embodiment the steps and of capturing combining and displaying respectively are performed in real time. That is captured images of objects surrounding the vehicle may be displayed by and integrated into the entertainment system while the objects are still in view of the vehicle s passengers through the windows of the vehicle. Thus the user may remain aware of his present environment even while being fully absorbed in the video game or video presentation provided by the entertainment system.

It is possible in a specific embodiment for the environmental data to have an effect not just on the display or visual aspects of a video game but to also have an effect on how the video game operates. Particularly the environmental images or other types of environmental data may be used in calculating the playing parameters of the video game software. For example illustrates a video game screen display of a composite video image that may be produced by one embodiment of the present invention. The composite video image includes elements of environmental data in the form of captured video images of objects surrounding the vehicle in which the entertainment system operates. The environmental data includes images of buildings and an image of a truck. The graphic image data from the entertainment medium includes images of game pieces that a player bounces off of images to thereby earn game points. The player may use one of controllers for example to control the movements of game pieces . Thus the size and placement of image elements from the environmental data affects whether a moving game piece bounces off of one of the image elements to garner points or whether the game piece instead misses the image elements and continues movement out of the display screen which does not earn points. Of course the player sees on the display screen the size and placement of the image elements and controls the movement of the game pieces accordingly in an effort to hit the image elements with the game pieces.

The embodiment illustrated in shows sensor apparatuses communicating directly with console and shows audio units coupled directly to console . However in another embodiment as illustrated in entertainment system includes a console that may communicate indirectly with audio units and sensor apparatuses through head unit . Such an arrangement may facilitate the installation of entertainment system in existing vehicles that already have one or more of sensor apparatuses 

As discussed above the console may be equipped with a wireless communication device. Such a wireless communication device may be adapted to send video and audio output signals to and receive communication from a wireless device such as a cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA or other device. Thus a passenger in front passenger seat may use the display and user interface of the wireless device to play the games processed by console .

The entertainment system of the present invention provides an interactive gaming system that incorporates the surrounding view location and other features of the vehicle s environment in the display and processing of the game thereby creating an endless variety of arrangements of in vehicle entertainment. While this invention has been described as having an exemplary design the present invention may be further modified within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention using its general principles. Further this application is intended to cover such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this invention pertains.

