---

title: Synthesis of radioactive materials and compositions of same
abstract: The present invention relates generally to synthesis of radioactive material, such as a tritiated polymer, and an apparatus for generating electrical current from the nuclear decay process of a radioactive material. In one embodiment, the invention relates to an energy cell (e.g., a battery) for generating electrical current derived from particle emissions occurring within a radioactive material such as a tritiated polymer) on pore walls of a porous semiconductor. The radioactive material may be introduced into the energy cell by a wetting process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07622532&OS=07622532&RS=07622532
owner: BetaBatt, Inc.
number: 07622532
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070216
---
The present invention was made with support from the National Science Foundation Small Business Innovation Research Phase II Grant No. 0450338.

The present invention relates generally to synthesis of radioactive material such as a tritiated polymer and an apparatus for generating electrical current from the nuclear decay process of a radioactive material. In one embodiment the invention relates to an energy cell e.g. a battery for generating electrical current derived from particle emissions occurring within a radioactive material such as a tritiated polymer on pore walls of a porous semiconductor. The radioactive material may be introduced into the energy cell by a wetting process.

Electrical current directly derived from a nuclear decay process is frequently referred to as an alpha voltaic or beta voltaic effect depending on whether the charged particle emitted by a particular nucleus is an alpha particle or a beta particle respectively. Previously a major drawback when attempting to use energy derived from a nuclear decay series to power devices in remote locations has been an inefficiency of the energy conversion process.

Tritium containing polymers are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050217782 to Agostini U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20040053708 to Hebert U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 100 968 and 4 889 660 to Jensen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 020 003 to Steinberg et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 124 610 to Conley et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 418 177 to Stauffer et al. A description of efforts to exploit the nuclear decay process of a radioactive material is found in Final Scientific Technical Report A Nuclear Microbattery for MEMS Devices U.S. Department of Energy Award No. DE FG07 991D13781 published by James Blanchard et al. of the University of Wisconsin Madison. Other references to nuclear batteries include U.S. Pat. No. 6 479 920 to Lal et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 118 204 to Brown U.S. Pat. No. 5 859 484 to Mannik et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 606 213 to Kherani et al. and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 774 531 and 6 949 865 to Gadeken. All of the foregoing are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to radioactive material including carbon and tritium and a beta voltaic cell that includes the same. In general in one aspect the invention features a process including selecting an organic material and tritiating the organic material to yield a tritiated material. The tritated material has a ratio of tritium atoms to carbon atoms of at least about 1 1. The step of tritiating of the material includes addition and or substitution methods.

Implementations of the invention can include one or more of the following features. The organic material can be a polymer with the resulting tritiated material being a tritiated polymers . The polymer can be a poly vinylacetylene such as TMS poly vinylacetylene . The amount of tritium in the tritiated material can be at least about 20 wt . The tritiated polymer can be CHT . The tritiated polymer can be tritiated poly 1 ethylethylene . The tritiated polymer can be saturated. The step of tritiating the polymer can include catalytic tritium addition. The polymer can have a carbon carbon triple bond or a carbon carbon double bond in at least one monomer unit of the polymer and the step of tritiating the polymer can further include addition of the tritium in the form of tritium gas to the carbon carbon triple or double bond. The step of tritiating the polymer can include TO hydrolysis. The ratio of tritium atoms to carbon atoms in the tritiated polymer can be at least about 1.25 1 or more specifically at least about 1.5 1 or even more specifically at least about 2 1. The polymer can be synthesized from two or more compounds one of which includes vinyl bromide. The synthesizing of the polymer can include reacting vinyl bromide with trimethylsilyacetylene TMS acetylene and optionally the vinyl bromide can be tritiated before the synthesizing of the polymer. The polymer can include some tritium atoms before further tritiating the polymer utilizing addition and or substitution methods.

In another aspect the invention features a process including reacting vinyl bromide with trimethylsilyacetylene TMS acetylene in the presence of a palladium catalyst to form. TMS protected vinylacetylene polymerizing the TMS protected vinylacetylene to generate TMS PVacet hydrolyzing the TMS PVacet with TO to form PVacet T and adding tritium to the PVacet T to yield tritiated poly 1 ethylethylene .

In another aspect the invention features a saturated polymer comprising carbon and tritium. The saturated polymer has a ratio of tritium atoms to carbon atoms of at least about 1 1.

Implementations of the invention can include one or more of the following features. The saturated polymer can be tritiated poly 1 ethylethylene . The saturated polymer can have at least one monomer unit that includes at least 5 tritium atoms.

In another aspect the invention features a method of making a beta voltaic cell that includes tritiating an organic material to yield a tritiated material and at least partially wetting at least one pore of a porous semiconductor with a liquid including the tritiated material. The tritiated material has a ratio of tritium atoms to carbon atoms of at least about 1 1. The tritiating of the organic material includes an addition and or substitution method. The pore has disposed within it a first portion of a junction region.

Implementations of the invention can include one or more of the following features. The organic material can be a polymer with the resulting tritiated material being a tritiated polymer . The step of wetting may include melt wetting and or solution wetting to form a film on a solid surface for instance pore walls of a porous semiconductor . The film may be a mesoscopic film. The porous semiconductor can include silicon which can be macroporous silicon. The opening of the pore can have a diameter between about 1 nm and about 500 m. The porous semiconductor can include doped silicon. The tritiated polymer can include tritiated poly 1 ethylethylene . The porous semiconductor can be heated and or cooled during the process. During the wetting step a layer of thickness of about 30 nm to about 50 nm can be formed on the walls of at least the pore in the porous semiconductor.

In another aspect the invention features an apparatus for generating electrical current from a nuclear decay process of a radioactive material. The apparatus includes a porous semiconductor wafer. At least one pore of the porous semiconductor wafer is at least partially coated with the radioactive material. The radioactive material includes a tritiated material having a ratio of tritium atoms to carbon atoms of at least about 1 1. The pore of the porous semiconductor wafer includes a first portion of a junction region.

Implementations of the invention can include one or more of the following features. The organic material can be a polymer with the resulting tritiated material being a tritiated polymer . At least one of the porous semiconductor wafers can include silicon which can be macroporous silicon. The first portion of the junction region can be disposed at a declination angle of greater than about 55 relative to a second portion of said junction. The tritiated polymer can include tritiated poly 1 ethylethylene . The tritiated polymer can include a saturated polymer. The pore can have an aspect ratio of at least about 20 1.

In further embodiments features from specific embodiments may be combined with features from other embodiments. For example features from one embodiment may be combined with features from any of the other embodiments. In further embodiments additional features may be added to the specific embodiments described herein.

While the invention may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. The drawings may not be to scale. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but to the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

The following terms shall have the definitions given below when used in either lower case or with capitalizations in this specification 

 Addition is defined as a chemical reaction in which two or more molecules one of which includes at least one carbon carbon double bond and or at least one carbon carbon triple bond combine to form a larger molecule.

 Exchange is defined as a chemical reaction in which atoms of the same element in two different molecules or in two different positions in the same molecule exchange places. Exchange reactions include reactions in which one isotope of an element is replaced by a different isotope of the same element.

 Liquid polymer refers to any substance in the liquid state that includes a polymer. Liquid polymers include but are not limited to a polymer melt or a solubilized polymer.

 Polymer and polymeric material refer to a substance including one or more of various types of polymers e.g. block copolymer graft copolymer star polymer random copolymer etc. 

 Substitution is generally defined as a chemical reaction in which one element or group is replaced by a different element or group as a result of a chemical reaction.

 Tritiating a substance e.g. a carbon containing molecule monomer polymer etc. refers to incorporating tritium into the substance through the formation of one or more carbon tritium covalent bonds.

The present invention relates to the preparation of radioactive material for beta voltaic cells which includes the preparation of a radioactive material such as tritiated organic material or tritiated polymer with a high energy density through an efficient process that achieves high utilization of the radioactive material and produces low amounts of contaminated waste products. With a radioactive source e.g. tritium incorporated into an organic structure for instance a polymer leaking or leaching of radioactive material into the environment can be inhibited.

Organic materials suitable for tritiation include but are not limited to monomers oligomers and polymers. In some embodiments monomers may be tritiated and the tritiated monomers may be used to form tritiated polymers. The tritiated polymers may be further tritiated. In other embodiments a non radioactive polymer may be tritiated. The tritiated polymer may then be further tritiated. Examples of organic material that may be tritiated include for instance vinyl bromide and poly vinylacetylene . Vinyl bromide and poly vinylacetylene are used herein as examples of organic materials suitable for tritiation. Other organic materials known in the art may also be tritiated to form radioactive material suitable for generation of electrical current from beta voltaic cells.

Mavinkurve et al. High molecular weight poly 4 trimethylsilyl 1 buten 3 yne 1997 33 5 719 723 describes synthesis of poly vinylacetylene selective polymerization of 4 trimethyl 1 buten 3 yne through the vinyl group followed by cleavage of the protective trimethylsilyl group. At low temperatures the monomer undergoes self initiated polymerization leading to an ultra high molecular weight polymer. Matnishyan et al. Characteristic Features of the Polymerisation of Acetylene and Its Derivatives 1983 52 8 751 756 describes methods of preparation of high molecular weight polymers.

Work by Helms et al. Dendronized Linear Polymers via Click Chemistry 2004 126 15020 15021 which is incorporated by reference herein describes a solution phase procedure to produce poly vinylacetylene . The synthesis of poly vinylacetylene PVacet described by Helms et al. is depicted in . As shown in vinyl bromide is reacted with trimethylsilylacetylene TMS acetylene in the presence of a palladium catalyst PdCl PPh copper iodide and triethylamine to form TMS protected vinylacetylene TMS 1 buten 3 yne in a Sonogashira reaction. Bulk polymerization initiated with azoisobutyronitrile AIBN at 60 C. generates TMS PVacet . Hydrolysis of the TMS moiety in an excess of KOH and MeOH yields PVacet .

For complete tritiation however exchangeable hydrogens must be substantially absent from the reaction mixture. Departing from a tritium atom may be substituted for the TMS moiety by TO hydrolysis of the TMS moiety in TMS PVacet in the presence of NaOMe and THF to form PVacet T as depicted in . In an example 218 mg 4.03 mmol anhydrous NaOMe and 88.7 mg 4.03 mmol of TO are added to 500 mg of polytrimethylsilylvinylacetylene 4.03 mmol of TMS groups dissolved in 20 mL THF. After stirring at 50 C. for 48 hours the solvent mixture is removed under vacuum to yield PVacet T . In some embodiments an excess of NaOMe and TO may be used.

Catalytic tritium addition of four tritium atoms to each carbon carbon triple bond of PVacet T yields tritiated poly 1 ethylethylene CHT . In some embodiments catalytic tritium addition may be achieved with Tin the presence of Wilkinson s chlorotri triphenylphosphine rhodium. In other embodiments the catalyst may be metallocene butyllithium as described by Tsiang et al. Hydrogenation of polystyrene b polybutadiene b polystyrene block copolymers using a metallocene n butyllithium catalyst the role of n butyllithium 1999 72 14 1807 1815. In still further embodiments heterogeneous catalysts including but not limited to Pd C or Pt C may be used at elevated pressures and or temperatures.

Tritiated poly 1 ethylethylene CHT may be completely saturated. The fully saturated tritiated polymer includes about 23 wt tritium with a ratio of tritium atoms to carbon atoms in each monomer unit of 1.25 1 and a molecular weight ranging from about 20 000 to about 200 000. Radioactivity of CHT generally will be in a range from about 1 000 Ci g to about 5 000 Ci g.

The synthesis depicted in involves introduction of tritium at the final stages of the synthesis e.g. tritiating a polymer rather than precursor monomer units thereby limiting handling of tritium containing compounds. The substitution and addition reactions depicted in to form PVacet T and CHT respectively allow efficient synthesis while limiting the production of contaminated e.g. radioactive waste. The scheme in is an example of a method to produce a saturated tritiated polymer with substitution and addition reactions to cleanly and efficiently incorporate or introduce tritium into a polymer. The scheme in does not include an exchange reaction between protium and tritium.

In alternative embodiments of the invention the processes shown in can be modified such that the pendant group in each monomer unit of the radioactive polymer is a longer carbon chain. For instance when the pendant group in each monomer unit is a butyl group instead of an ethyl group as in poly 1 ethylethylene the resulting radioactive polymer is of the form CHT with a ratio of tritium atoms to carbon atoms in each monomer unit of 1.5 1. The ratio will approach about 2 1 as the pendant group becomes longer.

In another alternative embodiment of the invention the tritium carbon ratio may be increased by deprotecting TMS poly vinylacetylene with fluoride in the presence of CTI resulting in monomeric units with the formula CHTbefore addition of Tacross the triple bond. Full tritiation would then yield CHT with a tritium carbon ratio of 1.5 1.

In still alternative embodiment of the invention the processes shown in can be modified to begin with tritiated vinyl bromide CTBr rather than vinyl bromide CHBr . As such after polymerization substitution and addition the resultant tritiated poly 1 ethylethylene is CT with a ratio of tritium atoms to carbon atoms in each monomer unit of 2 1.

A radioactive material in a liquid state may be used to wet one or more pores of a porous semiconductor to provide a source of beta particles for a beta voltaic cell. As used herein wetting is generally defined as a process by which an interface between a solid and a gas is replaced by an interface between the same solid and a liquid. Steinhart et al. describe wetting of porous templates to form nanotubes in Nanotubes a la Carte Wetting of Porous Templates 2003 4 1171 1176 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Wetting behaviour is described by the spreading parameter S in which is the solid vapor interfacial tension is the solid liquid interfacial tension and is the liquid vapor interfacial tension. When a the solid is a porous semiconductor b the liquid is a liquid form of a radioactive material such as a radioactive polymer and c the vapor includes air or any combination of gases including inert gases e.g. nitrogen argon adhesive forces between the polymer liquid and the semiconductor exceed the cohesive forces with the polymer liquid thereby allowing the polymer liquid to spread on the porous semiconductor.

Wetting may involve the formation of a precursor film as the liquid polymer spreads on the porous substrate. A microscopic precursor film may form near an edge of a macroscopic liquid polymer droplet. The precursor film may spread on the order of millimeters with a thickness ranging of a few tens of nanometers.

As used herein mesoscopic film refers to a film with a thickness characterized by properties intermediate between the properties of bulk matter and individual atoms or molecules. As used herein coat generally refers to a layer or film or forming such layer or film on a pore wall of a porous semiconductor. The coat or coating may be in a liquid or solid state. The coat layer or film may have a thickness ranging from about 1 nm to about 100 nm. As used herein wetting generally refers to forming a layer of liquid on a solid surface including pore walls of a porous solid. In some embodiments wetting of pore walls of a porous semiconductor by a liquid radioactive material such as a radioactive polymer may occur over a period of time of 1 100 seconds.

Pores of a porous semiconductor may be wet with a polymer liquid by methods including but not limiting to solution wetting and melt wetting. Solution wetting may include contacting a polymer melt of a liquid containing one or more polymers and one or more additional components with a porous surface of a semiconductor. For instance poly 1 ethylethylene may be dissolved in any suitable solvent known in the art including but not limited to acetone tetrahydrofuran chloroform toluene or a mixture thereof to form a liquid radioactive polymer. A liquid polymer applied to e.g. brought in contact with a porous surface of a porous semiconductor may be homogeneous. The morphology of a polymeric coating of a pore wall may be selectively controlled through processes including but not limited to thermal quenching or solvent evaporation to induce phase separation along with phase ripening.

Melt wetting may include placing or pressing polymer powders or pellets on a porous surface of a semiconductor that has been heated to a temperature that exceeds the glass transition temperature of an amorphous polymer or the melting point of a partially crystalline polymer. In some embodiments wetting of pore walls of a porous semiconductor by a liquid polymer may occur over a period of time of 1 100 seconds. Cooling of the polymer melt e.g. cooling the porous semiconductor wetted by the polymer melt may result in a polymeric layer coupled to one or more pore walls. As used herein coupled generally refers to joined or linked together with or without an intervening substance or material. A polymeric layer may be removably or permanently coupled to one or more pore walls. The method of wetting the pore walls including heating and or cooling the porous semiconductor or substrate may be chosen to achieve a desired thickness and or morphology of the resulting polymeric layer coupled to the pore walls.

Sun et al. A Three Dimensional Porous Silicon p n Diode for Betavoltaics and Photovolaics 2005 17 1230 1233 which is incorporated by reference herein describes a three dimensional diode constructed on porous silicon which consists of a network of pores formed by electrochemical anodization of silicon substrates. Porous silicon is classified according to pore size as microporous 2 nm mesoporous 20 50 nm or macroporous 50 nm . As used herein pore size and pore diameter generally refer to a diameter of an opening of the pore e.g. a throat of the pore .

In some embodiments appropriate materials having pore sizes within any of the aforementioned size ranges e.g. nanometer scale structures such as carbon nanotubes may be used. In other embodiments a quantum wire of radioactive atoms strung in a polymer chain may be inserted into a pore with a slightly larger diameter than the chain.

In some embodiments of the invention a silicon formation is used in which an individual pore diameter is between about 1 nm and about 500 m. In other embodiments pores having a diameter between about 1 nm and about 100 m are formed. In still other embodiments pores having a diameter of between about 1 nm and about 70 m are formed.

In some embodiments the pore depth extends through the entire thickness of a semiconductor wafer. In such embodiments the junction regions of the pores are interconnected by a variety of means that will occur to those of skill in the art e.g. exterior wire bond connection metalization deposits on the wafer and or conductive layers within the wafer itself .

In a further embodiment channels are formed in the wafer wherein a width of the channels is on the order of a micron. For instance in embodiments of the invention channels having a diameter between about 1 nm and about 500 m may be formed. In other embodiments channels having a diameter between about 1 m and about 100 m may be formed. In some embodiments channels having a diameter of about 70 m may be formed. The channels may be formed as a series or array of channels.

Referring now to an embodiment of diode structure is seen in which porous semiconductor has been doped to provide p type region n type region and junction region . In some embodiments porous semiconductor may include silicon. First contact connects p type region to a first side of load via low resistivity contact region e.g. a metal for instance aluminum . Second contact connects n type region via low resistivity contact surface region e.g. a metal deposit for instance gold thereby permitting a current transport path for charges liberated by energetic decay electron energy absorption in n type region to reach second contact such that n type region is in electrical communication with another side of load .

Radioactive material is disposed in layer coupled to pores . Each decay event in radioactive material generates an energetic beta particle that may enter n type region which has an electric field across junction caused by the contact potential between p type region and n type region . In this embodiment the emitted beta particle enters n type region and creates positive holes and negative electrons charges within n type region that separate under the influence of the electric field in junction . One charged species migrates towards junction region and then to low resistivity contact region while an oppositely charged species migrates toward a contact surface region e.g. or . In this manner a current flow through load is induced via first contact and second contact .

The maximum travel distance of the most energetic tritium beta particle in silicon is about 4.33 m and in an embodiment employing a silicon wafer and tritiated organic material tritiated polymer junction region may be created near a boundary of p type region and n type region at a depth just past 4.33 m. Disposition of the junction region at a depth greater than the maximum travel distance of the beta particle provides a nearly 100 chance that all of the charge generated when a beta particle travels through n type region will be collected and therefore contribute to the total generated current.

Pores in various embodiments have diameter of significantly less than the mean free path of the decay particle of the radioactive material disposed in the pore for the purpose of increasing the probability that a decay event will cause current to be generated. In further embodiments pores have length with a length to diameter aspect ratio of greater than about 20 1. In a still further embodiment pores have an aspect ratio of greater than about 30 1 again for the purpose of increasing the probability that a decay event will result in a particle entering the semiconductor and generating current. In still further embodiments for instance see the walls of pores and consequently the exemplary junction region of junction formed between p type region and n type region have a declination angle of greater than about 55 measured relative to surface plane of the semiconductor surface in which they are formed . In the embodiment illustrated in for instance the walls of pores and thus the exemplary junction regions have a declination angle of about 90 measured relative to surface plane of the semiconductor in which they are formed. When the radioactive material is disposed in a long narrow volume in a semiconductor there is a much greater probability that a beta particle produced by a decay event will enter junction region and induce a current flow. Disposing the radioactive material in a manner such that a decay particle is produced a significant fraction of a mean free path or further from the nearest energy conversion function causes a much lower current density to result from any particular volume of a semiconductor.

It should be noted that the current of a particular device is related at least in part to the surface area of the junction region available to collect electrons quickly after the decay event. The greater the area of junction region provided in a particular volume of radioactive material the greater the induced current. The voltage of a particular device depends at least in part on the voltage of junction region . For silicon material junction regions that voltage is about 0.7 volts. For other junction regions whether derived from different semiconductor materials e.g. germanium gallium arsenide etc. and or other structural configurations e.g. plated metal disposed over selected portions of a semiconductor material the voltage is different.

The diode structure in effectively parallels a number of pn junctions each formed in the pores and to some extent over the surface of p type region . The structure of would be fabricated over an area of p type region creating a diode structure . To configure a diode structure that generates more current or voltage than is possible with a single diode structure requires the parallel and or series combinations of the diode structures .

Diode structures may include one or more e.g. a plurality of etched channels or pores . Channels or pores may have doped junction regions formed on the inner surfaces of said channels or pores. Radioactive material radioactive polymer may be positioned e.g. confined within diode structure . For instance layer may be coupled to or deposited on one or more pore walls. In a further embodiment radioactive material radioactive polymer may include a non radioactive material that may be converted into an appropriate radioactive species which thereafter decays when irradiated or otherwise excited by appropriate means.

In an embodiment existing semiconductor fabrication methods are used to form porous silicon wafers having a plurality of etched pores or channels. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 204 087 B1 to Parker et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 529 950 to Hoenlein et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 997 713 to Beetz Jr. et al. all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Generally a pore or channel pattern is deposited onto the wafer. Masking is performed using for instance photolithography and or photo masking techniques. Exposed portions of the wafer are etched for instance by exposure to a chemical solution or gas plasma discharge to remove areas of the wafer that were not protected during the masking stage.

In an embodiment of the present invention inner surfaces of the etched pores are substantially curved in shape for instance cylindrical or conical. In an alternative embodiment a series of very narrow channels having dimensions of a few microns are etched. In a still further embodiment the etched pores and or channels are formed in the wafer in positions that are substantially equidistant from one another. In further embodiments pores and or channels etched into the wafer are substantially the same shape although in other embodiments some of the pores and or channels have differing shapes.

The electrical properties of the etched area may then be altered by the addition of doping materials. In an embodiment of the invention known doping methods are used to alter the electrical properties of the etched pores or channels. See for example Deep Diffusion Doping of Macroporous Silicon published by E. V. Astrova et al. of the A. F. Ioffe Physico Technical Institute Russian Academy of Sciences St. Petersburg in December 1999 and March 2000 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. In some embodiments the wafer is doped by applying atoms of other elements to the etched areas. In some embodiments the added elements have at least one electron more than silicon and are called p type e.g. boron . In further embodiments the added elements have at least one electron less than silicon and are called n type e.g. phosphorus .

Accordingly to a further embodiment preparation of appropriate diode structures see is performed using known doping techniques. In an embodiments of the invention channels or pores are etched e.g. in an array into the bodies of diode structures and then doped to form a plurality of junction regions on the inner wall surfaces of channels or pores . Radioactive material radioactive polymer may be introduced into channels or pores through a process including but not limited to wetting with radioactive material. The diode structures may be assembled as desired.

As mentioned supra in some embodiments in which the radioactive material includes tritium the emitted charged particles are beta electrons. Beta electrons have a relatively low penetrating power. Accordingly in some embodiments a housing may be formed from a thin sheet of metallic foil which inhibits penetration of energetic particles emitted during the decay process. Thus the possibility of radioactive energy escaping from the package is reduced. Use of tritiated material for instance tritiated polymer reduces the need for precautions related to inadvertent release of tritium from the cell into environment.

In further embodiments and show a pore array formed within a diode structure for generating electrical current from the decay process of radioactive material radioactive polymer . As seen a 3 3 array of circles represents a sectional view of channels or pores etched into porous semiconductor . Porous semiconductor portion may be for instance a silicon wafer. In some embodiments pores are cylindrical. In other embodiments pores may be other shapes including but not limited to ellipsoidal hexagonal and or octagonal. Channels or pores may be formed in regular and or irregular arrays.

In the embodiments depicted in pores are separated by about 100 m in two directions for instance vertically and horizontally and the pore diameter is about 70 m. Junction region formed by a p n junction extends to about an 80 m diameter. Layer of radioactive material radioactive polymer adheres to walls of one or more channels or pores . In some embodiments radioactive material radioactive polymer may be coupled to and or removed from one or more selected channels or pores randomly or with a given pattern as shown in . In some embodiments layer is of a thickness ranging from about 30 nm to about 50 nm.

In still further embodiments of the invention other tritiated material e.g. a deuterated polymer a tritiated polymer with a higher wt of tritium and or other semiconductors e.g. germanium silicon germanium composite or gallium arsenide and or other materials capable of forming appropriate junction regions can be employed. Other methods of forming pores and channels and other pore and channel shapes and patterns are used in still further embodiments. Actual dopants of the semiconductor and related methods of doping also vary in other embodiments and are not limited to those recited above.

Beta voltaic cells may be used advantageously for applications requiring low power and or long life e.g. 12 years to over 100 years depending on energy source . Beta voltaic cells will operate in extreme environments ranging from 100 C. to 150 C. and are shock tolerant. The size of a beta voltaic cell may range from a button battery size to D cell size. Cells may be formed into arrays to increase battery size. Substantially all emissions in a beta voltaic cell are captured within the three dimensional diode matrix substantially eliminating harmful radiation leaching contamination and other negative environmental impact. Beta voltaic cells are highly efficient and may be may be manufactured by semiconductor techniques known in the art.

Beta voltaic cells may be used as stand along power sources or as trickle chargers to increase the utility and practical life of chemical batteries. Applications for beta voltaic cells include but are not limited to outer space space vehicles satellites etc. subsea valves actuators sensors controls telemetry etc. subsurface real time measurements four dimensional seismic measurements etc. microelectronics microelectronic mechanical systems etc. communications RFID tags implanted microcircuits etc. government and military covert operations sensors detectors etc. medical pacemakers defibrillators microstimulators neurostimulators cochlear implants etc. .

In this patent certain U.S. patents U.S. patent applications and other materials e.g. articles have been incorporated by reference. The text of such U.S. patents U.S. patent applications and other materials is however only incorporated by reference to the extent that no conflict exists between such text and the other statements and drawings set forth herein. In the event of such conflict then any such conflicting text in such incorporated by reference U.S. patents U.S. patent applications and other materials is specifically not incorporated by reference in this patent.

Further modifications and alternative embodiments of various aspects of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. Accordingly this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the general manner of carrying out the invention. It is to be understood that the forms of the invention shown and described herein are to be taken as examples of embodiments. Elements and materials may be substituted for those illustrated and described herein parts and processes may be reversed and certain features of the invention may be utilized independently all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit of this description of the invention. Changes may be made in the elements described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the following claims.

