---

title: Self-heating, self-hydrating pouch to simultaneously hydrate and heat completely or partially dehydrated food or beverage products in said pouch
abstract: A self-heating, self-hydrating pouch to simultaneously heat and hydrate a prepackaged, partially or completely dehydrated food or beverage product that is stored in the pouch. The pouch comprises multiple layers of material that prevent the transmission of water and gasses thereby preventing deterioration of the prepackaged food or beverage product. The pouch includes a membrane filter structure and flameless, exothermic reaction agents. The user adds potable or non-potable water to the pouch. When the water contacts the exothermic reaction agents, an exothermic reaction occurs which heats the water above 200° F. The membrane filter structure filters the heated water to remove bacteria, viruses, chemicals and by-products of the exothermic reaction. The filtered, heated water contacts the partially or completely dehydrated food product or dehydrated beverage product and simultaneously heats and hydrates the food or beverage product.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07709035&OS=07709035&RS=07709035
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07709035
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070323
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is generally relates to self heating self hydrating pouch that simultaneously hydrates and heats a partially or completely dehydrated food and beverage product in the pouch.

Self heating pouches or packages for the storage of foods and beverages are known in the art. Typically such pouches are used by military personnel but are also used in recreational settings e.g. mountain climbing hiking etc. One prior art method of heating prepackaged shelf stable foods is known as the Flameless Ration Heater. This technique is typically used by military personnel and is configured to heat prepackaged foods that are already hydrated. However this method is inadequate for heating dehydrated food and beverage products. Another prior art product is known as the Trioxane Fuel Bar. This product has several disadvantages namely it emits a thermal signature is time consuming and requires the use of a metal cup that must be cleaned after each use. In a military situation these disadvantages inhibit mobility on the battlefield.

Other prior art self heating pouches use internal membrane filters that require a significant amount of time e.g. several hours to filter the water. Furthermore even after the water was purified the user would still have to heat food items and beverages such as coffee and tea for an additional 10 15 minutes.

A search of the prior art reveals several different types of self heating pouches or packages configured for the storage of food and beverage products. U.S. Pat. No. 4 762 113 discloses a self heating container having an inner container for holding a foodstuff. A primary water bag and an envelope containing an exothermic reaction agent are used to generate heat and a secondary water bag provides continued hydration. U.S. Pat. No. 4 895 135 discloses a self heating container that generates heat by hydration of an exothermic reaction agent. The container includes an outer shell an envelope enclosing the exothermic reaction agent a water bag filled with water for reaction with the agent and a container body for containing a foodstuff. U.S. Pat. No. 5 117 809 discloses a flameless heater product for ready to heat meals. This invention comprises a heater pad that is adapted to be placed in a bag and contacted by water for heating food. A water activated exothermic heater material generates the heat. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 909 discloses a self heating individual meal module that comprises a tray having a top surface with a food receptacle tub formed therein for holding food to be heated by the module. The food is heated by an exothermic chemical heater pad. U.S. Pat. No. 5 465 707 discloses a self heating individual meal package that comprises an outer pouch a foodstuff pouch enclosed within much of the outer pouch an exothermic pack located between the outer pouch and food stuff pouch and a solvent bag affixed to a trigger device e.g. pull tab . U.S. Pat. No. 5 517 981 discloses a water activated chemical heater with suppressed hydrogen. The chemical heater uses a chemical combination that generates heat for heating small portions of matter e.g. consumable rations without the simultaneous production of dihydrogen gas. U.S. Pat. No. 5 611 329 discloses a flameless heater that uses two non woven polyester sheets that are thermally bonded together to form a number of components. Each pocket is filled with a powder mixture of a Mg Fe alloy NaCl antifoaming agents and inert fillers. U.S. Pat. No. 6 248 257 discloses a portable heat source for warming food or beverages. A solid heat producing composition is activated by the addition of water or an aqueous solution. The heat producing composition contains an acidic anhydride an acidic salt a basic anhydride or a basic salt. U.S. Pat. No. 6 289 889 discloses a self heating flexible package that generates heat by contact of a heat producing composition such as calcium oxide and an activating solution. The heater has several compartments containing a heat producing composition and activating solution. The heater is activated by application of hand pressure to rupture a frangible seal that allows the heater components to mix. U.S. Pat. No. 6 341 602 discloses a heater pouch that provides flameless caloric heat to a food product inside a product container. The pouch has a flexible cover having a gas permeable portion and a liquid permeable portion. The cover forms a closed cavity. Tablets of exothermic material are located in the cavity. U.S. Pat. No. 6 644 383 discloses a self heating self coding package that comprises a flexible temperature changing package that can heat or cool food in the package. The package includes a temperature changing element adjacent to the food item and an offset activation point that prevents damage to the food.

What is needed is a new and improved self heating pouch that is also self hydrating and which can quickly heat and hydrate partially or completely dehydrated food or beverage products.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a self heating self hydrating pouch that can quickly heat and hydrate partially or completely dehydrated prepackaged foods and beverages stored therein.

It is a further object of the present invention that the self heating self hydrating pouch is easy to use.

It is yet another object of the present invention that the self heating self hydrating pouch is reliable.

It is yet a further object of the present invention that the self heating self hydrating pouch is lightweight.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the ensuing description and the accompanying drawings.

Thus in one aspect the present invention is directed to a self heating self hydrating pouch that is configured to quickly heat and hydrate shelf stable dehydrated compressed and intermediate moisture food and beverage products that are prepackaged in the pouch. In a preferred embodiment the pouch is fabricated from laminate materials that prevent the transmission of water and gasses thereby preventing deterioration of the prepackaged food in the pouch. The interior of the pouch includes a membrane filter and flameless ration heating ingredients. In accordance with the invention the user may add potable or non potable water to the pouch. When the water contacts the flameless ration heating ingredients an exothermic reaction occurs and heats the water above 200 F. The membrane filter filters the heated water so as to remove bacteria pathogens and chemicals. The filtered heated water contacts the dehydrated or intermediate moisture foods or beverages and simultaneously heats and hydrates the food or beverage product. This simultaneous heating and hydration process provides a hot fully reconstituted high quality food or beverage product.

Referring to there is shown self heating self hydrating pouch of the present invention. Pouch is configured to safely and quickly heat and hydrate shelf stable dehydrated compressed and intermediate moisture food and beverage products that are prepackaged in the interior of pouch . Pouch comprises water receiving section that has an interior for receiving potable or non potable water. Pouch further includes water heating section water filtering section and product storage section . Product storage section has an interior for storing therein a dehydrated or semi dry food or beverage product .

Referring to in a preferred embodiment pouch is fabricated from laminate materials that prevent the transmission of water and gasses thereby preventing deterioration of food or beverage product . In a preferred embodiment pouch comprises exterior layer and inner layer . In a preferred embodiment exterior layer is made from polyester and inner layer is made from aluminum foil. Pouch also includes food contact sealant layer that is within product storage section and joined to the portion of inner layer that is within product storage section . In a preferred embodiment food contact sealant layer is an ionomer or polyethylene film. Water receiving section includes re sealable opening device that allows a user to open water receiving section and add water to interior and then close the opening to water receiving section . In one embodiment re sealable opening device is configured as a zip loc that is known in the art and is commonly used on commercially available food storage bags. Thus the user manipulates re sealable opening device to create access to interior of water receiving section in order to pour water into interior . Once water is added the user then uses re sealable opening device to close access to interior . Potable or non potable water can be poured into interior . Preferably the water poured into interior is cold or cool.

Referring to food or beverage product shown in phantom is contained within product storage section . Product can be a food or beverage product that is in a fully or partially dehydrated state. If the product is a beverage product the beverage product is in the form of a dry powder. Tear notches enable a user to have access to food or beverage product after it has been heated and hydrated. The use of tear notches is further explained in detail in the ensuing description.

Referring to water heating section contains exothermic reaction agent . A flameless exothermic reaction is produced when the water contacts exothermic reaction agent . In accordance with the invention exothermic reaction agent is comprised of reaction agents that provide an exothermic reaction that heats the water above 200 F. In a preferred embodiment exothermic reaction agent is in solid form such as granules pellets and or powder and comprises magnesium a food grade iron powder and sodium. When water contacts the magnesium magnesium hydroxide is produced thereby causing an exothermic oxidation reduction reaction. The food grade iron powder and sodium catalyze the exothermic reaction. In one embodiment exothermic reaction agent consists only of magnesium the food grade iron powder and sodium. Other exothermic reaction agents are possible.

Referring to water filtering section is in liquid communication with interior of water receiving section and with water heating section . Water filtering section comprises membrane filter structure that filters the water heated by water heating section . Membrane filter structure has side edges A and B front edge C and rear edge D. Each edge A B C and D comprises a sealant layer that is sealed to inner layer so as to hold membrane filter structure in place. In a preferred embodiment the sealant layer is polyethylene. Membrane filter structure comprises multiple membranes that permit heated water to flow therethrough but restrict solutes such as exothermic reaction agents exothermic reaction by products bacteria viruses pyrogens and ions. Thus membrane filter structure allows potable or non potable water to be added into interior of water receiving section . Filtered heated water then passes through membrane filter structure and into product storage section where it contacts dehydrated or intermediate moisture food or beverage product and simultaneously heats and hydrates the food or beverage product . The simultaneous heating and hydration of food or beverage product provides a hot fully reconstituted high quality food or beverage product. Once the filtered heated water passes through membrane filter structure membrane filter structure blocks the heated filtered water from flowing back into water receiving section .

In order to use the pouch the user opens water receiving section with re sealable opening device and pours either potable or non potable water into interior . The water enters water heating section and contacts exothermic reaction agents . This results in an exothermic reaction that heats the water to at least 200 F. The heated water passes through filtering section and is filtered by membrane filter structure . The filtered heated water passes into product storage compartment where it simultaneously heats and hydrates food or beverage product . The user waits for a predetermined amount of time that allows for completion of the exothermic reaction and the heating and hydration of food or beverage product . This predetermined amount of time varies depending upon the food or beverage product. The particular features of pouch as described in the foregoing description result in a waiting time between about 15 and 30 minutes. After this time period has elapsed the user then holds pouch upside down and tears open product storage section with tear notches . The user may then consume the completely heated and hydrated food or beverage product.

The particular structure and configuration of membrane filter structure allows the use of potable and non potable water to hydrate and heat the food or beverage product . Thus non potable water containing pathogenic bacteria and foreign particles can be used with pouch . The relatively high temperature i.e. above 200 F. achieved by water heating section decreases the hydration rate and increases the filtration rate thereby providing a preparation time between 15 30 minutes. The result is a high quality hot food or beverage product in one step.

The self heating self hydrating pouch of the present invention can be used by a variety of users in different scenarios e.g. military personnel first responders hikers campers mountain climbers and boaters. The present invention is also suitable for use by civilians during natural disasters. Pouch is relatively light in weight can be easily carried and or stored and can be manufactured at reasonable costs.

In military situations the present invention provides military personnel with the advantage of being able to heat and hydrate prepackaged food and beverage products while on the move by simply adding potable or non potable water to water receiving section . The present invention provides a high quality hot food or beverage product in significantly less time than prior art systems. The present invention substantially lessens the logistical burden of carrying large amounts of clean water on missions. Furthermore pouch and the use thereof does not generate any significant thermal signature.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is neither intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

