---

title: Advertising rewards and referrals
abstract: Advertising rewards and referrals are described, including detecting an interaction with an advertisement, recording the interaction, the interaction including an input being provided in response to the advertisement, generating a reward for the interaction, the reward being an action taken to provide a benefit in response to the interaction, analyzing data associated with the advertisement, the data including a plurality of documented interactions, and providing a result from analyzing the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700455&OS=08700455&RS=08700455
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08700455
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070323
---
The present invention relates generally to software and online advertising. More specifically advertising rewards and referrals are described.

Online advertising accounts for substantial revenue generated using media such as the Internet and World Wide Web web . Conventionally advertisers have only crude tools for determining whether an online advertisement is effective. The two most common conventional measures of advertising effectiveness available to advertisers are impressions i.e. the number of users visiting the page where the advertisement was placed or click throughs i.e. the number of users that clicked on the advertisement . However an advertisement is not necessarily effective simply because many users visited a web page page where the advertisement was placed. Furthermore although click through data can show advertisers the relative effectiveness of an advertisement an advertisement can be effective without being clicked and a clicked advertisement can be poor or offensive in nature.

Another conventional method to determine advertising effectiveness is for an advertiser to perform market research by asking users to view an advertisement and provide a rating. However market research is expensive and not very accurate typically being performed under artificial conditions.

Further an advertisement is more effective if it reaches a user who is interested in the product or service featured in the advertisement. Although advertisers can target their advertisements to a specific web site some customers who would be interested in the product or service would not see the advertisement if they did not visit that specific web site.

Thus a solution for assessing and increasing advertisement effectiveness without the limitations of conventional techniques is needed.

Various examples may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a process an apparatus or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical electronic or wireless communication links. In general operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order unless otherwise provided in the claims.

A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the examples has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.

In some examples the described techniques may be implemented as an application or as a module or sub component of another application. The described techniques may be implemented as software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. If implemented as software the described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming development scripting or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Flex Java Javascript Ajax COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. Design publishing and other types of applications such as Dreamweaver Shockwave and Fireworks may also be used to implement the described techniques. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

Advertising rewards and referrals are described enabling feedback on advertisements or forwarding i.e. referring to other users of advertisements. In some examples users may rank advertisements e.g. good bad etc. to qualify for a benefit i.e. reward which may be a direct or indirect monetary award such as a donation to charity an entry into a lottery to win cash or prizes cash or points in an incentive program such as an airline mileage rewards program or frequent user program. Ranking information may be recorded and results may be provided that may show advertisers a variety of useful information such as which advertisements are more effective which web sites prefer a particular advertisement or set of advertisements and which types of users respond more or less favorably to a given advertisement. In other examples users may forward the advertisement to other users in order to qualify for a reward allowing advertisers to reach customers that they otherwise may not have been able to reach or attract. By using advertising rewards and referrals advertisers may have a more accurate assessment of whether an online advertisement is effective. Further advertisers may use the described techniques to determine which web sites are generating positive or negative reactions or attitudes in response to their advertisements. Still further advertisers may also implement the described techniques to receive real time or substantially simultaneous feedback on advertisements in order to discontinue enhance refine or otherwise modify poorly performing advertisements and advertising campaigns.

In some examples clients may be implemented using various types of endpoint devices. For example clients may be implemented as personal computers PC or any other type of computing device. Further clients may be implemented as notebook laptop computers cell smart phones or personal digital assistants PDAs respectively. In other examples clients may be implemented as any type of computing device.

In other examples server may be implemented and used to deliver i.e. serve content information or data requested by one or more of clients . For example content requested by client may be performed using a web browsing application not shown installed on client . Content may include text documents files images photos applications or any type of information or data. When requested from server content may be delivered to the requesting client i.e. clients . In other examples server may be a server configured for a given purpose e.g. ad server web server content server application server web services gateway and others . In yet other examples server may be a server network configured for a given purpose e.g. ad server web server content server application server web services gateway and others . When requested from server content may be delivered to the requesting client i.e. clients . Techniques for advertising rewards and referrals such as those described herein may be implemented using the above described system and topology. In some examples advertising rewards and referrals may be performed locally on one or more of clients . In other examples advertising rewards and referrals may be performed remotely or in a distributed manner using server server and one or more of clients . Further other system configurations topologies clients end and intermediate devices and implementation techniques may be used and are not limited to those described above.

As an example transaction flow initiated by an interaction with an ad may be communicated using API from another application e.g. web browsing desktop e mail messaging or other or operating system thus enabling observation of user behavior such as typing text or interfacing with an application. Input module may be configured to detect an interaction with an ad. Logic module may be implemented to provide logic control coordination command signaling and other functions and features for application . For example logic module may be configured to record an interaction having an input being provided in response to the ad. Reward generator may be configured to generate a reward for the interaction wherein the reward is an action taken to provide a benefit in response to the interaction. In some examples the benefit may be a direct benefit to the user such as a monetary benefit an entry into a lottery to win cash or prizes a point based benefit for an airline mileage program and others. In other examples the benefit may be awarded on the user s behalf such as a donation to a charitable organization or foundation and the like.

Here logic module may be configured to analyze data having one or more documented interactions. In some examples a documented interaction may be an interaction that is observed and recorded providing or storing data associated with the transaction in a repository or other system for use in determining the effectiveness of an advertising campaign or advertisement. Output module may be configured to provide a result from analyzing data associate with an advertisement advertising campaign or interaction. Based on the result in some examples advertisers may modify the advertisement substantially simultaneous with the provided result. In other examples advertisers may remove the advertisement substantially simultaneous with the provided result. In yet other examples system and the described elements may be varied in implementation function or structure and are not limited to the examples provided.

Here if the interaction was a rating of the file a reward is generated and the process ends. In some examples the reward may be a direct benefit to the user such as a monetary benefit an entry into a lottery to win cash or prizes a point based benefit toward airline miles or other incentives and others. In other examples the reward may be on the user s behalf such as a donation to a charitable organization or foundation and others.

If the interaction was not a rating of the file the process continues. A determination is then made as to whether the interaction was a forwarding of the file . As an example an interaction that was a forwarding of the file may be when a user forwards the file to another user s e mail. As another example an interaction that was a forwarding of the file may be when a user forwards the file to another user s cell smart phone.

Here if the interaction was a forwarding of the file a reward is generated and the process ends. In some examples the reward may be a direct benefit to the user such as a monetary benefit an entry into a lottery to win cash or prizes a point based benefit toward airline miles redemption programs or others. In other examples the reward may be on the user s behalf such as a donation to a charitable organization or foundation.

If the interaction was neither a rating of the file nor a forwarding of the file no reward is generated and the process ends. In other examples an advertiser may choose to reward other types of interactions such as interfacing with an interactive system. As an example an interactive system may be a system configured to allow the user to play the part of an extreme skier or a motorcycle rider. The above described process may be varied in implementation design order and function and is not limited to the examples provided above.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In other examples system and the above described elements may be varied and are not limited to the functions structures configurations or implementations provided.

The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive.

