---

title: Digital orthodontic appliance coupling matrix
abstract: A digital orthodontic treatment planning system provides a practitioner with digital representations of at least a part of a tooth of a patient and at least part of a coupling matrix within a three-dimensional environment. By interacting with the system, orthodontic practitioners are able to visualize a coupling matrix that results from a specific orthodontic appliance position relative to a tooth of the patient's dental arch. The digital representation of the coupling matrix represents a substance, such as a cured adhesive, that connects an orthodontic appliance to a tooth of a patient. The system determines a thickness of at least a portion of the coupling matrix. In one embodiment, the system indicates the total thickness via a thickness map, such as a color-coded thickness map. In another embodiment, the system indicates a deviation from a baseline thickness via a thickness map.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08562339&OS=08562339&RS=08562339
owner: 3M Innovative Properties Company
number: 08562339
owner_city: Saint Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070713
---
The invention relates to orthodontics and more particularly computer based techniques for assisting orthodontic diagnosis and treatment.

The field of orthodontics is concerned with repositioning and aligning a patient s teeth for improved occlusion and aesthetic appearance. For example orthodontic treatment often involves the use of tiny slotted appliances known as brackets which are fixed to the patient s anterior cuspid and bicuspid teeth. An archwire is received in the slot of each bracket and serves as a track to guide movement of the teeth to desired orientations. The ends of the archwire are usually received in appliances known as buccal tubes that are secured to the patient s molar teeth.

A number of orthodontic appliances in commercial use today are constructed on the principle of the straight wire concept developed by Dr. Lawrence F. Andrews D.D.S. In accordance with this concept the shape of the appliances including the orientation of the slots of the appliances is selected so that the slots are aligned in a flat reference plane at the conclusion of treatment. Additionally a resilient archwire is selected with an overall curved shape that normally lies in a flat reference plane.

When the archwire is placed in the slots of the straight wire appliances at the beginning of orthodontic treatment the archwire is often deflected upwardly or downwardly from one appliance to the next in accordance with the patient s malocclusions. However the resiliency of the archwire tends to return the archwire to its normally curved shape that lies in a flat reference plane. As the archwire shifts toward the flat reference plane the attached teeth are moved in a corresponding fashion toward an aligned aesthetically pleasing array.

A position of the bracket on a tooth as well as the interaction between the bracket and an archwire affects a resulting position of the tooth. As can be appreciated it is important for the practitioner using straight wire appliances to precisely fix each bracket in the proper position on the corresponding tooth in order to achieve the desired tooth movement. If for example a bracket is placed too far in an occlusal direction on the tooth surface the archwire will tend to position the crown of the tooth too close to the gingiva gums at the end of the treatment. As another example if the bracket is placed to one side of the center of the tooth in either the mesial or distal directions the resultant tooth orientation will likely be an orientation that is excessively rotated about its long axis.

The process of positioning and bonding the brackets to the patient s teeth often requires an orthodontic practitioner to visually determine the proper location of the brackets on the respective teeth based on an estimate of how the brackets will affect the movement of the teeth. One factor in selecting a type of bracket or another orthodontic appliance to use with a particular patient is the fit between the bracket and the surface of the patient s tooth to which the bracket is applied. A poor fit between a bracket and the tooth surface may result in a reduction in the strength of the bond between the bracket and tooth. A bracket is typically attached to a patient s tooth via an adhesive or another similar substance which typically fills the space between the surface of the patient s tooth and the bracket. Once cured the adhesive between the bracket and the tooth is sometimes referred to as an adhesive layer custom base or adhesive pad depending on the type of bonding technique that is employed e.g. an indirect or direct bonding technique . However if the cured adhesive is too thick or unevenly distributed the bond strength may be compromised. Accordingly the practitioner may determine that the bracket provides a poor fit for the particular patient.

The state of the art in orthodontics is rapidly moving toward digital and computer aided techniques. These techniques include the use of intra and extra oral scanners three dimensional 3D modeling of a tooth structure and fabrication of orthodontic appliances from digital data.

In general the invention relates to computer implemented techniques for assisting practitioners in orthodontic diagnosis and treatment. More specifically a computing system is described that provides a three dimensional 3D environment for modeling and depicting a digital representation of a patient s dental arch. By interacting with the system an orthodontic practitioner is able to place one or more orthodontic appliances such as brackets within the 3D environment relative to the digital representation of the dental arch. The orthodontic practitioner may place the digital representations of the orthodontic appliances manually or with the aid of orthodontic appliance fitting algorithms implemented by the computing system. For at least one orthodontic appliance the computing system provides a digital representation of a coupling matrix that results from the orthodontic appliance position relative to a respective tooth of the patient s dental arch. The digital representation of the coupling matrix represents a substance such as a cured adhesive or machined base that bonds affixes or otherwise connects the orthodontic appliance to the tooth.

The digital representation of the coupling matrix presented by the computing system provides a useful tool for visualizing a relative position between a digital representation of an orthodontic appliance and a respective tooth of the modeled dental arch. Based on the configuration e.g. the shape and size of the coupling matrix an orthodontic practitioner may determine whether the selected orthodontic appliance provides a satisfactory fit for the particular tooth of the particular patient or whether the practitioner should select another orthodontic appliance. For example the thickness measured in a substantially labial lingual direction distribution of the coupling matrix may be indicative of the fit between the particular type of orthodontic appliance and the respective tooth of the patient. Because the surface of a particular patient s tooth is typically unique to the patient it may be useful for the orthodontic practitioner to determine how a particular orthodontic appliance fits relative to the tooth of the particular patient within a virtual 3D environment prior to actually bonding the appliance to the tooth.

In some embodiments the computing system indicates a thickness of one or more portions of the coupling matrix. For example the computing system may generate a thickness map of the coupling matrix within the 3D environment. The thickness map may be presented as for example a color coded map where different colors represent different thickness ranges or different thickness deviations from a predetermined thickness or a contour map that includes contour lines to indicate a thickness of the coupling matrix. The predetermined thickness may be a norm thickness preferred by one or more practitioners or another predetermined thickness automatically selected by the computing system or manually selected by a practitioner.

The color coded thickness map provides a visual reference for the orthodontic practitioner to relatively quickly ascertain the thickness distribution of the coupling matrix as well as the fit between the respective orthodontic appliance and the respective surface of the patient s tooth to which the appliance is applied. In some cases it may be desirable to balance the thickness of the coupling matrix about a center of the appliance in order to provide a better fit between the appliance and the tooth. In other cases the orthodontic practitioner may purposefully define a coupling matrix with an imbalance in its thickness in order to achieve a certain result e.g. a movement of the tooth in a certain direction .

In some embodiments the computing system may indicate a volume of the coupling matrix. Alternatively a practitioner may determine the volume based on the thickness map. If the coupling matrix is comprised of adhesive or another bonding material the practitioner may utilize the volume information to determine the amount of adhesive to dispense when applying the orthodontic appliance directly to the tooth of the patient in a direct bonding technique or to a physical model of the tooth in an indirect bonding technique. The adhesive may be applied to the orthodontic appliance the tooth or both.

In some modes of operation the computing system displays a digital representation of the coupling matrix positioned between an orthodontic appliance and a tooth of the modeled dental arch within the 3D environment. In other modes of operation the computing system displays a digital representation of the coupling matrix relative to a tooth of the modeled dental arch and does not display the orthodontic appliance. In this way the practitioner may control whether the digital representation of the orthodontic appliance is displayed.

In one embodiment the invention is directed to a computer implemented method that comprises rendering a digital representation of at least a portion of a tooth within a three dimensional 3D environment determining a position of a digital representation of an orthodontic appliance relative to the digital representation of the tooth within the 3D environment determining a thickness of at least a portion of a coupling matrix and rendering a digital representation of a coupling matrix within the 3D environment based on the position of the digital representation of the orthodontic appliance.

In another embodiment the invention is directed to a system comprising a computing device and modeling software executing on the computing device. The modeling software comprises a rendering engine that renders digital representations of at least a portion of a tooth and at least a portion of a coupling matrix within a 3D environment an orthodontic appliance control module to automatically calculate a position of an orthodontic appliance relative to the digital representation of the tooth within the 3D environment and a coupling matrix calculation module to determine a thickness of at least a portion of the coupling matrix based on the orthodontic appliance position.

In another embodiment the invention is directed to a computer readable medium containing instructions. The instructions cause a programmable processor to render a digital representation of at least a portion of a tooth within a three dimensional 3D environment determine a position of a digital representation of an orthodontic appliance relative to the digital representation of the tooth within the 3D environment determine a thickness of at least a portion of a coupling matrix and render a digital representation of the coupling matrix within the 3D environment based on the position of the digital representation of the orthodontic appliance.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

As described herein client computing device provides an intuitive interface for practitioner to realize an orthodontic treatment plan e.g. bracket placement for achieving desired tooth positions. In particular client computing device provides a user interface that displays digital representations of at least one tooth of a dental arch of the patient within a three dimensional 3D environment. Client computing device may display a digital representation of a portion of or an entire dental arch of a patient. In some embodiments client computing device enables the practitioner to select a view of the dental arch for displaying such as the entire dental arch a portion of the dental arch an occlusal view of the dental arch a labial view of the dental arch a lingual view of the dental arch or other views.

The digital representation of the teeth may be initially generated by digitally scanning a physical dental impression of the teeth of patient or by scanning a casting made from the impression. Alternatively practitioner may use an intraoral scanner to produce the digital representation directly from the teeth of patient . Other methods of scanning or otherwise obtaining a digital representation of the teeth are also possible.

Client computing device also provides a user interface that displays a digital representation of an orthodontic appliance i.e. a virtual orthodontic appliance positioned relative to a tooth of the digital representation of the dental arch to which the orthodontic appliance is attached and a digital representation of a coupling matrix i.e. a virtual coupling matrix rendered within the 3D environment between the tooth and the orthodontic appliance. Client computing device implements modeling software that determines the orthodontic appliance position which includes the linear position along the mesial distal direction labial lingual direction and occlusal gingival direction as well as the rotational orientation of the orthodontic appliance relative to a tooth.

The coupling matrix may be representative of a substance such as an adhesive that bonds affixes or otherwise connects the orthodontic appliance to a surface of one or more teeth. The coupling matrix may also be a material that defines a base for the orthodontic appliance where the base interfaces with a surface of one or more teeth to connect the appliance to the tooth e.g. with the aid of an adhesive. For example in some embodiments the coupling matrix may be defined by a metal polymer or other material that is integral or coupled to the appliance. In some embodiments the base may be machined to define a surface that substantially corresponds to the surface of the tooth to which the appliance is applied based on the digital representation of the coupling matrix.

In a direct bonding technique the coupling matrix is defined by an adhesive that is applied when the orthodontic appliance such as a bracket is applied directly to the tooth of the patient with the adhesive. Thus in a direct bonding technique the coupling matrix may define an adhesive pad for the orthodontic appliance. In some direct bonding techniques the practitioner may manually place the orthodontic appliance onto one or more teeth of the patient

In an indirect bonding technique the coupling matrix is typically defined by an adhesive that is applied when the orthodontic appliance is applied to a physical model of the tooth of the patient. The physical model may be created via a molding technique a stereo lithographic technique other rapid prototyping techniques or another suitable technique. A mechanical device such as a multiple axis pick and place robot may place the orthodontic appliances on the physical model of the patient s teeth under the control of computing device or another computing device. Alternatively a physical model may be provided with a guide structure to assist in guiding the appliances to desired positions on the model tooth such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 689 869 entitled METHODS AND ASSEMBLIES FOR MAKING AN ORTHODONTIC BONDING TRAY USING RAPID PROTOTYPING which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety although other transfer trays may also be used. Examples of suitable transfer trays also known as indirect bonding trays are also described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 123 544 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PRECISE BOND PLACEMENT OF ORTHODONTIC APPLIANCES which issued on Sep. 26 2000 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Other transfer trays may also be used.

In an indirect bonding technique the coupling matrix provides a structure customized for mounting on the patient s tooth structure such as by using a placement device e.g. a transfer tray . Thus in an indirect bonding technique the custom matrix may define a custom base for the orthodontic appliance.

After determining the position of the orthodontic appliance relative to one or more teeth within the 3D environment presented by client computing device a digital representation of the coupling matrix is rendered. The coupling matrix fills the defined space between the surface of the one or more teeth and the orthodontic appliance within the 3D environment. Thus computing device generates a digital representation of the coupling matrix after determining a position of the orthodontic appliance relative to a tooth within the 3D environment.

Computing device may determine the position of the orthodontic appliance within the 3D environment for example using a bracket fitting algorithm and or input from practitioner as described in further detail below. The coupling matrix is then digitally represented as a 3D object within the 3D environment where the 3D object substantially corresponds to the space between the surface of the orthodontic appliance facing a tooth and the surface e.g. facial or lingual surface of the tooth. That is in some embodiments the digital representation of the coupling matrix has substantially the same shape and size as the gap between a respective orthodontic appliance and tooth within the 3D environment. For example one surface of the coupling matrix may have substantially the same boundary and contours as the mating surface of the orthodontic appliance. An opposite surface of the coupling matrix may have substantially the same contour as a portion of the surface of the tooth to which the appliance is to be applied and a boundary that is defined by a projection of the appliance boundary onto the surface of the tooth.

In other embodiments the digital representation of the coupling matrix has substantially the same shape and size as the gap between the orthodontic appliance and tooth minus the space occupied by any additional material such as an adhesive material used to bond or otherwise connect the coupling matrix to the tooth surface. For example in the case of some indirect bonding techniques after the custom base is formed using the physical model of the patient s tooth the custom base along with the appliance to which it is attached may be removed from the physical model and adhered to the patient s tooth with the aid of a primer. Accordingly in some embodiments modeling software of computing device may model the primer in addition to the coupling matrix. The modeling software may account for the thickness of the primer in the digital representation of the custom base. However in some indirect bonding techniques a thickness of the primer may be substantially less than a thickness of the coupling matrix. Thus in some embodiments the modeling software does not display the primer or account for a thickness of the primer when considering a thickness of the coupling matrix.

In some indirect bonding techniques a custom base includes a mold release agent layer that may be used to release the custom base from the physical model of the patient s teeth. It has been found that a thickness of the mold release agent is substantially similar to a thickness of the primer that is used to adhere or otherwise connect the custom base to the patient s actual tooth. Thus in some embodiments the modeling software of computing device inherently accounts for the thickness of the primer in the digital representation of the custom base by including the mold release agent as part of the custom base. In some embodiments the digital representation of the coupling matrix may be presented without displaying a digital representation of the orthodontic appliance.

In either the direct or indirect bonding techniques a first side of the coupling matrix defines a contour that substantially conforms to the contour of the intended mounting location of the tooth to which the orthodontic appliance is attached. For example if the orthodontic appliance is coupled to a facial surface of a patient s tooth the coupling matrix may define a substantially concave contour that substantially conforms to the substantially convex contour of the facial surface of the tooth. A second side of the coupling matrix defines a contour that substantially corresponds to the contour of the surface of the orthodontic appliance intended to be facing the tooth of the patient. The contour of the surface of the orthodontic appliance may differ based on the type of orthodontic appliance.

The side walls of the digital representation of the coupling matrix that extend between the orthodontic appliance and the tooth may define a substantially cylindrical surface i.e. having substantially parallel side walls or a curved surface such as a convex or concave surface. For example in some indirect and direct bonding techniques excess coupling matrix material that does not sit between the tooth and orthodontic appliance after the appliance is attached to the tooth may be removed. The excess coupling matrix material may be referred to as flash. Examples of flash removal techniques include the use of a scaler probe swab brush or high velocity air stream. During the removal process the side walls of the coupling matrix may be inadvertently or purposefully concavely curved e.g. filleted . The side walls of the digital representation of the coupling matrix may be curved to reflect any curvature that may occur during the flash removal process. Similarly the side walls of the coupling matrix may be convexly curved e.g. chamfered to reflect curvature that might occur as a result of adhesive flashing out of the gap between the tooth and the appliance during appliance application.

Providing a digital representation of the coupling matrix may provide a useful and intuitive display with which practitioner may interact to select a suitable orthodontic appliance for patient adjust a characteristic of the orthodontic appliance e.g. the torque angulation labial lingual offset in out and rotational offset of the appliance relative to the tooth or otherwise visualize the fit between a particular orthodontic appliance and the surface of the patient s tooth. Because the surface features of a particular patient s tooth are typically unique to patient it may be useful for practitioner to determine how a particular orthodontic appliance fits relative to the tooth of the particular patient within a virtual 3D environment prior to actually bonding the appliance to the tooth. Based on the configuration of the digital representation of the coupling matrix practitioner may determine whether the selected orthodontic appliance provides a satisfactory fit for the particular tooth of the particular patient. If practitioner determines that a selected orthodontic appliance does not provide a satisfactory fit based on the digital representations of the coupling matrix practitioner may select another type of orthodontic appliance to model within the 3D environment provided by client computing device .

Although the description will generally discuss the display and positioning of one or more teeth and orthodontic brackets it shall be understood that client computing device may display and or position any type of orthodontic appliance without departing from the scope of the present invention. Examples of such orthodontic appliances include but are not limited to orthodontic brackets buccal tubes sheaths or buttons. In addition although a custom base is primarily referred to throughout the remainder of the disclosure in other embodiments computing device may provide a digital representation and determine a thickness of any suitable coupling matrix for any suitable bonding technique including but not limited to an adhesive pad in a direct bonding technique or a material that is integral with the orthodontic appliance and machined to define a base for the appliance.

In most cases orthodontic brackets are configured to be applied to a particular tooth of the dental arch such as a lower molar but not to the individual tooth of a specific patient. The size surface contour and other characteristics of a particular tooth may differ between patients. Accordingly a commercially available bracket i.e. a bracket designed for use for multiple patients rather than customized for a particular patient may interface with a particular patient s tooth in a different way than with another patient s tooth. In addition to connecting the custom base to the surface of the patient s tooth the custom base fills the gaps between the bracket and the tooth. Because each patient s tooth typically has unique surface features a thickness of the custom base and thickness distribution of the custom base may differ between patients. A thickness is generally measured substantially along the labial lingual direction between the surface of the tooth and the respective surface of the bracket. The thickness of the custom base may also differ depending on what type of bracket practitioner selects for use on the patient s tooth.

In addition to displaying a digital representation of the custom base that results from a particular bracket position in some modes client computing device indicates a thickness of the custom base at one or more portions of the custom base and or a volume of the custom base via an element within the 3D environment. The element may be for example a 3D object text graphics or geometric primitives e.g. lines curves etc. within the 3D environment that provides an indication of a thickness to practitioner . For example in one embodiment practitioner may select one or more portions e.g. clicking on the digital representation of the custom base with a peripheral pointing device such as a mouse and client computing device may present a text box that provides a thickness of the custom base at the selected portion s .

In another embodiment client computing device presents a thickness map of the custom base that indicates the different thicknesses of the custom base and variations in thickness. For example client computing device may present a thickness map that uses a color coding scheme to distinguish between different thickness ranges. The color coding scheme may be any suitable scheme including different colors different shades of the same color or combinations of different colors and shades. As described in further detail below each color and or shade may indicate a gross thickness range or a thickness range relative to a predetermined baseline thickness. In some embodiments the baseline thickness may be a norm thickness for practitioner for multiple practitioners or may otherwise be selected by practitioner or client computing device . In other embodiments the baseline thickness may be a threshold thickness determined by client computing device practitioner the manufacturer of modeling software running on client computing device or another suitable source. The threshold thickness may indicate the maximum and or minimum acceptable thickness of the custom base for providing a sufficient bond strength. The thickness map may also be referred to as a contour map or a topographic map in embodiments in which the map is color coded because the thickness map visually indicates the variation in the surface configuration of the surface of the custom base facing the tooth.

Practitioner may use the digital representation of the custom base as a visual aid to determine whether a bracket position resulting from a particular treatment plan is suitable for patient and if necessary readjust a position of the bracket relative to the surface of the tooth within the 3D environment. For example practitioner may readjust the bracket position to minimize the thickness of the custom base at one or more points or to achieve a more uniform distribution of custom base. In embodiments in which client computing device implements a bracket fitting algorithm in order to select a bracket and determine the bracket fit characteristics practitioner may visually confirm that the bracket fitting algorithm worked correctly based on the digital representation of the custom base.

The thickness distribution of the custom base may be indicative of the fit between the particular type of orthodontic appliance and the tooth of patient . In some cases the practitioner may wish to achieve a uniform custom base thickness distribution in order to provide a more secure fit between the bracket and the tooth. In some cases it may also be desirable to minimize the thickness of the custom base because a minimal thickness may substantially accurately reflect the in out prescription of the appliance system. In addition in some cases minimizing the overall thickness of the custom base may result in a more reliable bond between the appliance and the tooth compared to other thicker custom bases. Some custom base distributions or contours such as a relatively uneven distribution on opposite sides of the custom base may result in a weak bond between the tooth and the orthodontic appliance and in some cases a bonding failure. In other cases practitioner may purposefully induce an uneven distribution of the custom base in order to achieve a particular result such as a particular torque or direction of movement of the tooth.

Practitioner may select the desired distribution of the custom base based on information such as the patient s case history previous experience or the type of adhesive forming the custom base. The contour of the custom base may also be selected to orient the slot in the bracket for receiving an archwire in a desired direction. In some cases it may be desirable for the archwire receiving slot in the bracket to be oriented in a substantially horizontal direction which is substantially parallel to the occlusal plane of the patient.

The custom base thickness and or volume information may also provide a useful tool for determining the amount of adhesive or other bonding substance to dispense when applying the orthodontic appliance directly to the tooth of patient in a direct bonding technique or to a physical model of the tooth in an indirect bonding technique. An accurate dispensing of adhesive may useful information in the case of a system in which a pick and place robot places brackets on a patient s teeth. Without the custom thickness and or volume information the practitioner may apply too much adhesive to the bracket and waste resources or the practitioner may apply an insufficient amount of adhesive to the bracket and potentially change the fit of the bracket to the tooth of the patient. An insufficient amount of adhesive may also result in gaps or voids between the bracket base and the tooth which could weaken the resulting bond between the bracket and the tooth result in bond failure and or serve as a trap for food and ultimately facilitate the formation of cavities.

In general the digital representation of the custom base with a 3D environment may also help the practitioner determine whether the displayed bracket provides a satisfactory fit and whether another type of bracket would provide a better fit for the particular tooth of the patient. For example if the custom base thickness exceeds a predetermined threshold at one or more portions practitioner may select another bracket or readjust a position of the bracket. The threshold may be determined by for example practitioner or the manufacturer of the software running on client computing device . Furthermore the threshold may be individualized to a particular patient or may be applicable to more than one patient. The thresholds may differ based on the tooth. For example a greater range of thicknesses i.e. a greater threshold may be more tolerable for molars than for incisors.

Rather than directly manipulating the digital representation of the bracket in order to achieve a particular custom base thickness or thickness distribution in some embodiments modeling software may present a GUI that enables practitioner to specify the desired custom base thickness at one or more portions of the custom base. However because only a certain custom base thickness may be achieved with a particular type of bracket modeling software may limit the available range of custom base thicknesses.

The thickness distribution of the custom base may be indicative of the balance of the bracket relative to the tooth. In many cases a substantially evenly distributed custom base may indicate a substantially balanced bracket because the distribution of the custom base is indicative of the spacing between the bracket and the tooth of the patient when the bracket is placed on the tooth. Accordingly the thickness distribution of the custom base may indicate the extent of rocking that the bracket would be subjected to if the bracket was positioned on the tooth according to the bracket fitting algorithm. Practitioner may control the balance of the bracket relative to a respective tooth of patient by readjusting the bracket position until a desired custom base distribution is achieved.

Client computing device may also display a digital representation of one or more orthodontic appliances associated with the teeth in addition to the digital representation of the custom base. In one embodiment the orthodontic appliance is a bracket. However in other embodiments the orthodontic appliance may be any appliance that corresponds to a particular tooth of patient or a particular set of teeth where a set is generally less than a full dental arch of patient . Client computing device need not display a full visual representation of an orthodontic appliance. Rather a portion of the appliance may be displayed such as an outline of the appliance or an outline of certain features of the appliance such as features of the base of the appliance . In addition client computing device may display a full visual representation of an archwire or alternatively a portion of an archwire such as an outline of the archwire or an outline of certain features of the archwire.

The orthodontic appliance and or archwire may be displayed as a visible object or partially visible object or alternatively the appliance may be displayed as a substantially transparent object for clarity of illustration of the teeth and or custom base. Displaying the appliance as a substantially transparent object or otherwise not displaying the appliance provides an interface in which a custom base is more visible than when the appliance is displayed as a substantially opaque object. While the custom base may still be visible when the appliance is displayed as a visible object in some cases it may be desirable to view the custom base without an overlying orthodontic appliance in order to better visualize the thickness map of the custom base.

As another alternative client computing device need not display the appliance itself. Rather another object associated with an appliance or with the placement of an appliance may be shown instead of or in addition to the appliance itself. Examples of such other objects include crosshairs intersecting lines indicating the position on a tooth where the center of an appliance is to be placed placement jigs placement guides indirect bonding trays or other objects which may represent or be attached to an appliance or which may be otherwise associated with an appliance and or its placement. Alternatively client computing device may reference an orthodontic appliance analog i.e. an orthodontic appliance represented by data such as a coordinate system instead of the device itself. The terms appliance or bracket as used herein shall therefore be understood to include any type of appliance a full or partial representation of an appliance any object associated with an appliance and or its placement or an analog of the orthodontic appliance.

As described in detail herein client computing device presents a graphical user interface GUI with which practitioner interacts to define a prescription for patient . Practitioner may interact with the GUI presented by client computing device to view the digital representation of the teeth within the 3D environment define a proposed orthodontic prescription and determine the proper placement of one or more brackets with respect to one or more teeth for achieving a desired functional and or aesthetic result. That is practitioner selects virtual brackets and directly manipulates the virtual brackets within the 3D environment to position the brackets on individual teeth within the modeled dental arch. To aid the practitioner client computing device may initially place the virtual brackets on individual teeth based on standard prescriptions for commercially available brackets an initial prescription specified by practitioner or via a bracket fitting algorithm.

Examples of bracket fitting algorithms or techniques that client computing device may implement to initially place brackets within the 3D environment are described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 929 entitled Method of Placing Orthodontic Brackets on Teeth in a 3D Virtual World which issued May 1 2007 and commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0024637 entitled Automatic Adjustment of an Orthodontic Bracket to a Desired Occlusal Height Within a Three Dimensional 3D Environment filed Jul. 30 2004 by Raby et al. both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. A system for placing teeth and or brackets along an archwire is described in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0073436 entitled Movement of Orthodontic Objects Along a Archwire Within a Three Dimensional 3D Environment filed Apr. 6 2006 by Raby et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some cases client computing device also presents an environment in which practitioner may manually place orthodontic brackets relative to teeth within the 3D environment. Manual placement of the brackets may be assisted by use of visual planar guides as described in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0170309 entitled Planar Guides to Visually Aid Orthodontic Appliance Placement within a Three Dimensional 3D Environment filed Feb. 4 2004 by Raby et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

It shall be understood that these and or any other techniques may be used to initially place the brackets on the teeth in the 3D environment and thus determine the patient s prescription and that the invention is not limited in this respect. Moreover although described for purposes of illustration with respect to modeling software executing on client computing device the techniques may be applied by any computing device including servers remote from practitioner .

Client computing device may then compute the resulting final position of the modeled teeth resulting from the initial bracket placement. Practitioner may subsequently adjust the position of a particular bracket relative to a particular tooth to achieve a desired functional and or aesthetic result. Practitioner may adjust the position of a particular bracket based on the digital representation of the custom base because as previously discussed the thickness and thickness distribution of the custom base may indicate the balance of the bracket relative to a particular tooth. For example practitioner may manually adjust the position of the bracket such as by selecting the bracket with a mouse or another peripheral pointing device and manipulating the bracket within the 3D environment. Practitioner may for example drag the bracket to a desired position within the 3D environment or reorient the bracket. Alternatively practitioner may select a bracket and reposition the bracket within the 3D environment by manually inputting coordinates for the bracket. Practitioner may also activate a refit algorithm implemented by client computing device in order to automatically reposition the bracket within the 3D environment. In other embodiments practitioner may implement any suitable technique for repositioning a bracket within the 3D environment. In some embodiments client computing device may then recompute the placement of the modeled teeth resulting from the manipulation of the brackets by practitioner . Furthermore after each bracket positioning iteration client computing device may regenerate the custom base that results from the respective bracket position.

Once a proposed orthodontic prescription is formulated and displayed the brackets are placed to achieve a final functional and or aesthetic result and or such other result as may be desired and practitioner has indicated his or her approval client computing device communicates the bracket placement positions to manufacturing facility via network . In response manufacturing facility constructs an indirect bonding tray for use in physically placing brackets on the teeth of patient . In other words manufacturing facility fabricates indirect bonding tray based on the bracket placement positions selected by practitioner within the 3D environment presented by client computing device . Manufacturing facility may for example use conventional commercially available brackets selected by practitioner to form indirect bonding tray . Manufacturing facility forwards indirect bonding tray to practitioner for use in a conventional indirect bonding procedure to place the brackets on the teeth of patient . As another option manufacturing facility constructs instead of the indirect bonding tray a custom jig for placing a single bracket on the patient s tooth or a group of brackets on e.g. a quadrant of a dental arch or an entire dental arch.

Alternatively client computing device need not forward the bracket placement positions to manufacturing facility . Client computing device may instead output e.g. display or print the relevant distances and angles for each bracket to assist practitioner in manually positioning the brackets on the teeth of patient in a direct bonding technique. Alternatively client computing device may print a 2D representation of the 3D images displayed on the graphical user interface of client computing device .

User interface provides a GUI that visually displays the digital representation of the patient s dental arch and or of specified portions of the patient s dental arch as well as digital representations of the brackets or other orthodontic appliance and custom bases of the brackets for connecting to the patient s teeth. The digital representations may be 3D or two dimensional 2D . In addition user interface provides an interface for receiving input from a user such as practitioner e.g. via a keyboard and a peripheral device for manipulating a tooth or bracket.

Orthodontic appliance control module and custom base calculation module may be considered interactive modules for developing an orthodontic treatment plan for achieving a desired tooth arrangement for a particular patient . In some embodiments practitioner may interact with modeling software via user interface to indicate a desired position of a bracket associated with the particular tooth. Orthodontic control module may also move the bracket based on the movement inputted by practitioner . In embodiments in which a digital representation of the bracket is rendered and displayed on user interface the adjusted position of the bracket may be displayed via the GUI of user interface . Practitioner may interact with custom base calculation module in order to determine a custom base thickness or volume. For example practitioner may select a portion of the representation of the custom base for which more information is desired and in response custom base calculation module may provide practitioner with details about the selected custom base portion. As another example custom base calculation module may provide practitioner with a custom base thickness map.

As described above during treatment commercially available brackets are configured to be placed on a particular tooth e.g. a lower molar but not to the individual tooth of a particular patient which may have unique surface features. Accordingly an adhesive may not only bond the bracket to the surface of the tooth but may also fill any gaps between the tooth and the bracket thereby creating a customized structure for applying the bracket to the tooth of the patient. In an indirect bonding technique the custom base is created during a preliminary stage when the brackets are attached to a physical model of a patient s teeth. Another adhesive is used to bond the custom base to the patient s actual teeth during the bonding stage.

Many existing systems that provide digital representations of orthodontic appliances and teeth for the purposes of generating an orthodontic treatment plan illustrate the bracket floating in free space relative to the tooth. The floating bracket may make it difficult for practitioner to visually ascertain how well a bracket base conforms to a tooth as placed in the 3D environment. For example the gap between the bracket and the tooth may make it difficult to judge the thickness of the custom base when only the gap is shown particularly because the gap is not fully illustrated and merely the outer boundaries of the gap are shown. On the other hand rendering engine renders a digital representation of the custom base in order to help practitioner visually ascertain the bracket fit. The digital representation of the custom base may include both the side walls or outer boundaries of the custom base which include the surfaces extending between the tooth and the bracket and the inner surface which includes the surface of the custom base that substantially faces the orthodontic appliance or the tooth. It may be desirable to view the inner surface of the custom base in addition to the outer boundaries because the inner surface may vary considerably in contour depending on the patient s tooth surface characteristics. Custom base calculation module determines different characteristics of the custom base such as the thickness at one or more portions of the custom base or the volume of the custom base to further aid the treatment planning for a particular patient .

Custom base calculation module may render at least one element within the 3D environment that visually represents the thickness of at least a portion of the custom base. The element may be for example a 3D object text graphics or geometric primitives e.g. lines curves etc. within the 3D environment that provides an indication of a thickness to practitioner . For example in one embodiment custom base calculation module may indicate a thickness at one or more custom base portions by generating a thickness map that rendering engine presents to practitioner . The thickness map visually indicates the thicknesses of different portions of the custom base. The thickness map may be interactive. Practitioner may select one or more portions of the thickness map in order to obtain further details about the thickness at the selected portions.

In some embodiments custom base calculation module generates a color coded thickness map in which different colors or shades of one or more colors represent different custom base thicknesses measured in a substantially labial lingual direction . While a digital representation of a custom base having a uniform color may be useful color coding the digital representation of the custom base may add additional utility to the display of the custom base. For example the color coded thickness map of the custom base may enable practitioner to quickly distinguish between different thicknesses. A black and white thickness map may also be useful in certain instances. For example shades of gray or different types of cross hatching or other graphical indicia may be used to indicate different thicknesses.

Different color coding schemes may be used. For example in one embodiment different colors may represent different ranges of absolute custom base thicknesses. Each color may represent any suitable thickness range. For example each color may represent a thickness range of about 0.05 mm to about 0.5 mm. Any number of colors may also be used. In one embodiment custom base calculation module implements a color code scheme that includes three to seven colors representing three to seven thickness ranges. For example custom base calculation module may generate a thickness map that includes about five thickness ranges. Colors or different shades of one or more colors that are readily distinguishable from each other may be used in order to provide a display that practitioner may quickly review and quickly ascertain the variation in thickness and in some cases the thickness of different portions of the custom base. For example blue may indicate a thickness range of about 0 mm to about 0.12 mm green may indicate a thickness range of about 0.13 mm to about 0.25 mm yellow may indicate a thickness range of about 0.26 mm to about 0.38 mm orange may indicate a thickness range of about 0.39 mm to about 0.50 mm and red may indicate a thickness greater than 0.51 mm. Other color coding schemes and thickness ranges may be used. The color may change discretely as the thickness changes or the color may continuously change to more accurately depict the contour of the custom base.

In another embodiment different colors may represent the deviation from a baseline thickness such as a norm thickness or thickness threshold where the baseline thickness may be selected by a practitioner by a manufacturer of modeling software or by modeling software . For example modeling software may learn a norm thickness based on past usage by a certain practitioner . That is modeling software may learn that practitioner prefers a custom base thickness in a certain range such as after repetitive adoption of a custom base thickness or an average custom base thickness. Alternatively the norm may be based on the practice of more than one practitioner. The norm thickness may be represented as a first color and other colors may be used to indicate different thickness ranges relative to the norm. In another embodiment the norm thickness may be a norm thickness associated with at least one set of orthodontic appliances such as a certain type of bracket. Modeling software may learn the norm thickness for a particular type of orthodontic appliance based on past usage by a one or more practitioners or the appliance manufacturer may specify a norm thickness. Again the colors that indicate a deviation from a norm thickness may represent any suitable number of thickness ranges such as about three to about seven thickness ranges.

In embodiments in which different colors represent the deviation from a threshold thickness value custom base control module may generate a custom base in a uniform color and use one or more colors to indicate the range of thicknesses by which the custom base exceeds the threshold value. Custom base control module may also generate an indication to inform practitioner that the thickness of the custom base exceeds the threshold value at one or more points and may specify the regions via the color coded thickness map.

In other embodiments rendering engine may render a custom base having a uniform color and custom base calculation module may provide an interactive feature by which practitioner may select one or more portions of the custom base in order to obtain more information about the thickness at the selected portions. For example practitioner may select a portion of the displayed custom base with a mouse or another peripheral pointing device and custom base calculation module may render at least one element that includes text such as within a GUI display area where the text includes detailed information about the selected portion of the custom base such as the thickness of the custom base at the selected portion.

In other embodiments rendering engine may indicate a thickness distribution of the custom base via a contour map. Contour lines may be drawn on the digital representation of the custom base the surface of the respective tooth or the base of the orthodontic appliance. Each contour line may follow a path of constant thickness and the thickness value associated with each contour may be illustrated for example by a numerical value shown in close proximity to the line in a separate GUI window or textbox that appears when practitioner positions a cursor over the contour line or by color coding the line according to a legend that maps colors or monochrome values to thicknesses.

If practitioner adjusts a position of a bracket relative to a tooth of patient modeling software and in particular custom base control module may recalculate the thickness of the custom base and rendering engine may render a thickness map reflecting the thickness of the custom base or otherwise indicate a thickness of the custom base. Any of the aforementioned techniques for indicating a thickness of one or more portions of the custom base calculation module may be combined and in other embodiments custom base calculation module may implement other techniques for indicating a thickness of a custom base.

As previously discussed practitioner may readjust a position of a bracket via user interface in order to achieve a desired custom base distribution or a desired tooth position or dental arch arrangement for patient . Modeling software may receive an input indicative of a desired position for a bracket in multiple different ways. For example modeling software may implement a technique described in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 551 372 entitled DIGITAL ORTHODONTIC TREATMENT PLANNING and filed on Oct. 20 2006 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 551 372 describes a technique by which practitioner may interact with modeling software of a computing system in order to visualize the 3D representation of the dental arch indicate a desired position or desired movement for one or more teeth and determine a position of one or more orthodontic appliances that will result in the desired tooth position. In U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 551 372 the system implements certain techniques that provide the practitioner with the perception that he or she is directly manipulating the 3D representation of the patient s teeth so as to specify final i.e. desired tooth positions. However in response to input from the practitioner the computing system computes an adjustment to a current position of a bracket or another orthodontic appliance . That is instead of directly manipulating a tooth within the 3D environment as the practitioner perceives the movements input by the practitioner are instead applied to the appliance associated with the tooth but in a reverse fashion. The system then computes a new position for the tooth based on the adjustment to the appliance.

If practitioner indicates a desired bracket or tooth position to balance or minimize the thickness of the virtual custom base by manipulating a bracket orthodontic appliance control module may refit the digital representation of the tooth relative to the indicated bracket position either continuously or incrementally as mouse button or other input events are received in response to the input from practitioner indicating the desired bracket position. In another embodiment which may be another mode of operation of modeling software practitioner may be given more direct control of tooth movements that result in tooth positions. An ability to directly manipulate tooth positions may enable practitioner to effectively achieve intermediate tooth positions to those offered by a best fit configuration of the bracket relative to the tooth. Best fit configurations typically rely on discrete metrics e.g. torque angulation in out for the bracket position. A wider range of final tooth positions may be achieved by allowing imbalances in the thickness distribution of the custom base. Such imbalances are more easily visualized by using a custom base thickness map. In addition the custom base thickness map may also enable practitioner to maintain the imbalance within acceptable limits.

In some embodiments user interface may include navigational controls for moving and or positioning the orthodontic object such as by clicking on an icon that displays navigational controls for moving a virtual tooth and or bracket. The result is that modeling software allows practitioner to interactively create a treatment plan for a patient by generating an initial bracket placement for a tooth predicting the resulting position of the tooth based on the initial bracket placement and enabling practitioner to adjust the position of the bracket or select another type of bracket using the digital representation of a custom base as a tool to visualize the fit between the bracket and a respective tooth. The digital representation of the custom base provided by rendering engine and the thickness map provided by custom base control module enables practitioner to reposition a bracket and or tooth with more precision and accuracy by providing additional information that may be useful in determining whether repositioning of a bracket is desirable.

Modeling software interacts with database to access a variety of data such as bracket data including data regarding the bracket base patient data placement rules 3D data and custom base data . Although referred to as custom base data in other embodiments database may include data for other types of coupling matrices. Database may be represented in a variety of forms including data storage files lookup tables or a database management system DBMS executing on one or more database servers. The database management system may be a relational RDBMS hierarchical HDBMS multi dimensional MDBMS object oriented ODBMS or OODBMS object relational ORDBMS or other type of database management system. The data may for example be stored within a single relational database such as SQL Server from Microsoft Corporation. Although illustrated as local to client computing device database may be located remote from client computing device and coupled to client computing device via a public or private network e.g. network .

Bracket data describes a set of commercially available brackets or other orthodontic appliances that may be selected by practitioner and positioned within the 3D modeling environment. For example bracket data may store a variety of attributes for the commercially available brackets such as dimensions slot locations and characteristics torque angles angulations and other attributes. User interface may provide a menu driven interface by which practitioner selects the type of brackets for use in defining an orthodontic prescription for patient . Bracket data may also include bracket tooth behavior rules that define a relationship between each bracket and respective tooth.

Patient data describes a set of one or more patients e.g. patient associated with practitioner . For example patient data specifies general information such as a name birth date and a dental history for each patient. Optionally patient data includes appointment scheduling information and billing information. In addition patient data specifies a current prescription specified for each of the patients including the types of brackets selected by practitioner for use with each of the patients and their associated positions and orientations on the teeth of patient . Patient data may also include information regarding the composition structure or construction of selected bracket base. After practitioner determines a desirable bracket placement position via modeling software practitioner may store the bracket placement position within patient data of database .

Placement rules may specify industry defined placement rules for commercially available orthodontic appliances. In addition placement rules may include user defined rules specified by practitioner or other rules for controlling appliance placement. Modeling software and or practitioner or a technician under the direction of practitioner may reference placement rules to initially place brackets or other orthodontic appliances with respect to one or more teeth of a patient prior to arranging teeth into a desired arch form.

One rule for certain commercially available brackets is to align the medial line or longitudinal axis of the bracket with the Facial Axis of the Clinical Crown FACC of the tooth. The FACC is defined as the curved line formed by the intersection of the mid sagittal plane and the facial surface of the tooth. Another exemplary industry defined placement rule is to place the center of a custom base of the bracket on the FACC of the tooth equidistant from the occlusal edge or occlusal most point on the FACC and the gingival margin of the crown. This location is also known as the Facial Axis Point FA Point . As another example practitioner may desire to place brackets at a position that is different from the FA Point. Consequently practitioner may specify different prescriptions for different types of teeth in the dentition for different types of brackets or both. Optionally the prescription may be based in whole or in part on known rules associated with a particular type of the appliances selected by practitioner .

Placement rules may also include bracket fitting algorithms or other techniques for placing brackets within the 3D environment. The stored algorithms may include U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 929 entitled Method of Placing Orthodontic Brackets on Teeth in a 3D Virtual World which issued May 1 2007 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0170309 entitled Planar Guides to Visually Aid Orthodontic Appliance Placement within a Three Dimensional 3D Environment filed Feb. 4 2004 to Raby et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0024637 entitled Automatic Adjustment of an Orthodontic Bracket to a Desired Occlusal Height Within a Three Dimensional 3D Environment filed Jul. 30 2004 by Raby et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0073436 entitled Movement of Orthodontic Objects Along a Virtual Archwire within a Three Dimensional 3D Environment filed Apr. 6 2006 by Raby et al. which were previously incorporated by reference.

Rendering engine accesses and renders 3D data to generate the 3D view presented to practitioner by user interface . More specifically 3D data includes information defining the 3D objects that represent each tooth orthodontic appliance and custom base within the 3D environment. Rendering engine processes each object to render a 3D triangular mesh based on viewing perspective of practitioner within the 3D environment. User interface displays the rendered 3D triangular mesh to practitioner and allows practitioner to change viewing perspectives and manipulate objects within the 3D environment. If rendering engine renders brackets or any other orthodontic appliances as transparent or visible objects rendering engine may initially place the brackets in the 3D environment using any of several different techniques described above.

Custom base data stores information relating to different types of custom bases such as different types of adhesives that practitioner may use to create the custom bases. Custom base data may also store the baseline e.g. a norm or threshold custom base thicknesses for one or more teeth where the baseline thickness may be specific to a particular practitioner clinic i.e. multiple practitioners or orthodontic appliance. Custom base calculation module may reference the baseline thickness when creating a thickness map of the custom base.

Rendering engine renders a digital representation of a custom base . As described in further detail below custom base calculation module of modeling software may determine the configuration of the custom base based on the relative distance between the tooth and the bracket within the 3D environment. Even in embodiments in which the bracket is rendered as a transparent object or not rendered at all orthodontic appliance control module determines an initial position of the bracket within the 3D environment relative to the tooth. Custom base calculation module may utilize this information to determine the configuration of the custom base that rendering engine presents to practitioner via user interface as well as to calculate a custom base thickness . In some embodiments custom base calculation module generates a custom base thickness map for rendering by rendering engine . As previously described the custom base thickness map is similar to a contour map and may include different colors or shading to distinguish between different thicknesses of the custom base.

Custom base calculation module may determine a custom base thickness to generate the thickness map by calculating the relative distance between the virtual bracket and the facial surface of the tooth at multiple points such as based on the coordinates of the surface of the virtual bracket facing the tooth and the facial surface of the tooth within the 3D environment presented by modeling software . In some embodiments custom base calculation module may then interpolate between the calculated thicknesses in order to create a substantially continuous thickness map. In other embodiments custom base calculation module may present a thickness map including the thicknesses of discrete points of the map. The colors of each discrete point may be blended together to represent a gradually changing thickness.

In embodiments in which the virtual bracket is rendered as a visible object the digital representation of the custom base is disposed between the bracket and the tooth within the 3D environment. In embodiments in which the virtual bracket is rendered as a substantially transparent object or not rendered the top surface of the custom base i.e. the surface facing the bracket may be more clearly illustrated. The custom base thickness map is more clearly shown when the virtual bracket is rendered as a substantially transparent object.

Rendering engine may select discrete sets of sample points within the 3D environment from the data defining the outer perimeter of the bracket surface . For example in embodiments in which the digital representation of the bracket is displayed via a triangular mesh the sample points may be the outermost vertices of the triangles along the perimeter of the surface of the virtual bracket facing the tooth. A sufficient number and distribution of sample points to at least roughly characterize the configuration and size i.e. length and width of the outer perimeter of the bracket surface should be selected. For example at least three but up to fifty or more sample points may be used.

Rendering engine may then define a plurality of hypothetical reference lines or rays where at least one ray extends from each of the sample points toward the triangular mesh defining the digital representation of a respective tooth of the dental arch . Each ray is a substantially straight line emanating from a point and the rays extend substantially parallel to each other. In one embodiment the rays extend from the outermost vertices of the triangles along the perimeter of the surface of the virtual orthodontic appliance facing the tooth toward the triangular mesh defining the tooth along a lingual labial reference axis. The triangular mesh defining the surface of the virtual bracket that faces the tooth also defines a surface of the virtual custom base because the custom base abuts the orthodontic appliance and substantially molds thereto.

The hypothetical rays are referenced herein in order to aid in describing an example of a technique employed by rendering engine to render a digital representation of a custom base. The virtual bracket may be displayed as a substantially transparent object visible object or otherwise. In embodiments in which the virtual bracket is not displayed orthodontic appliance control module may provide custom base calculation module with the location of the orthodontic appliance such as by providing custom base calculation module with coordinates of the surface of the orthodontic appliance closest to the respective tooth.

An outer perimeter of the custom base is extracted by connecting the points of intersection between the rays and the triangular mesh defining the tooth . The points of intersection define a polyline which represents a perimeter of the custom base. The ray triangle intersection points may be ordered similarly to the points on the virtual orthodontic appliance perimeter from which they originate. As one example a Mobile 3D Graphics API application running on client computing device may implement pick methods to extract the points of intersection between rays and the triangular mesh defining the tooth. Mobile 3D Graphics API is a specification defining an application programming interface for Java based programs that produce computer graphics.

Sample points may also be collected at points other than the outer perimeter of the bracket surface. Rays may be projected from these sample points in order to calculate a thickness of the custom base at the respective sample point. That is the length of the ray extending between the bracket surface and the tooth surface substantially equals a thickness of the custom base at the ray s sample point of origin. Custom base calculation module may implement any suitable mathematical function in order to determine the length of each of the rays such as by calculating the difference in coordinates of the origin of the ray at the bracket surface and the end of the ray at the tooth surface.

The walls of the custom base may be generated by enclosing the space between the rays extending between the triangular mesh defining the orthodontic appliance and the triangular mesh defining the tooth because the rays essentially define the outer surface of the custom base . Triangles may be formed in the enclosed space to define a closed or solid 3D object. For example edges of each triangle are formed by pairing each originating point in the perimeter with its corresponding ray triangle intersection point on the tooth. Edges are also formed by pairing each originating point in the perimeter with its neighbor s corresponding ray triangle intersection point on the tooth. Neighbors for each point are always in the same direction e.g. clockwise or counterclockwise . Together the ray triangle intersections on the tooth form another 3D polyline that is used to define a subset of the triangles on the facial surface of the tooth. The resulting 3D polyline may be used to cut extract or otherwise form a copy of the triangles on the tooth and use them to define a surface of the virtual custom base. In this way enclosing the space between adjacent rays defines a substantially smooth outer surface of a custom base and a 3D shape of the custom base. In some embodiments the volume of the virtual custom base is not converted to a closed or solid 3D object.

The total volume of the virtual custom base may be calculated using any suitable volume computing algorithm. As previously indicated the total volume of the virtual custom base indicates the volume of the custom bonding base plus the volume of any adhesive or other bonding material to be used to bond affix or otherwise attach the appliance to the tooth of the patient. The volume of adhesive may also be combined for each tooth in the dental arch thereby indicating how much adhesive is expected to be consumed in the bonding process for the patient rather than the volume per tooth. Practitioner may utilize the volume information to manage supplies such as to preorder a sufficient amount of adhesive for a certain time period such as a week a month or otherwise. The total volume may also indicate how well the orthodontic appliance conforms to the surface of the tooth of the patient. A large custom base volume may indicate that the bracket does not conform well to the tooth of patient .

In some embodiments custom base calculation module may determine a volume of the virtual custom base by subdividing the volume into a plurality of columns extending lengthwise in a substantially labial lingual direction. For example a plurality of triangular columns may be generated by projecting rays from a vertex of each triangular mesh base of the custom base or the surface of the orthodontic appliance facing the custom base which defines a cap of the custom base toward the tooth. As another example a plurality of triangular columns may be generated by projecting rays from a center of each triangle of the triangular mesh base of the custom base or the surface of the orthodontic appliance facing the custom base toward the tooth. The cross sectional area of each column may be substantially equal to a cross sectional area of a corresponding triangle of the custom base by triangles on both ends of the column or by a regular rectangular grid or another pattern. Thus in some embodiments each column has substantially the same cross sectional area but differing lengths. In other embodiments the columns have substantially different cross sectional areas. The length of each column is measured in substantially the same direction as a thickness i.e. the labial lingual direction .

Each column may be colored according to its length which is measured along the labial lingual direction its volume or a deviation of the length or volume from a baseline length or volume. As previously described a baseline length or any baseline value may be a norm value or threshold value selected by practitioner modeling software the manufacturer of modeling software or another source. The baseline may be practitioner specific or applicable to more than one practitioner. In embodiments in which the columns each have substantially the same cross sectional area the colors of the color coding system also represent the different volumes of each column. A color coded thickness may be generated via the color coded columns where the entire map is visible from a labial perspective when the bracket is not displayed as a visible object and partially visible from the occlusal gingival mesial and distal directions. The colors of each column may be blended together to represent a gradually changing thickness.

Dental arch includes a plurality of teeth including tooth A. Also depicted in GUI are digital representations of a plurality of brackets attached to teeth of dental arch including bracket A attached to tooth A. In the embodiment of GUI shown in practitioner may select one of the brackets in order to view the respective custom base in display area . In display area GUI displays a digital presentation of custom base positioned between tooth A and bracket A. While only custom base is shown in in other views provided by GUI the custom bases of other brackets may also be displayed.

As illustrates one surface of custom base substantially conforms to the contour of labial surface of tooth A and a substantially opposite surface of custom base substantially conforms to the surface of bracket A facing labial surface of tooth A. Because the surface features of labial surface of tooth A may differ depending on a particular patient and custom base substantially conforms to labial surface custom base customizes bracket A to the particular tooth of a particular patient. Bracket A may be a commercially available bracket stored in inventory and thus custom base helps configure a commercially available bracket for use with a particular patient. Custom base in is displayed as a uniform color. A uniform color custom base provides a useful tool for determining how well bracket A fits on the labial surface of tooth A.

In other embodiments custom base calculation module may generate a color coded thickness map that uses different colors to indicate different thicknesses of custom base . In such embodiments custom base is displayed as two or more colors that define a custom base thickness map. A thickness of custom base is measured along the labial lingual direction indicated by line in display area .

In modeling software is operating in a mode in which custom bases are not shown between each of the teeth and brackets . In the display shown in modeling software is operating in a mode in which GUI displays custom base and custom bases . In some embodiments practitioner may control modeling software to selectively view the display shown in or the display shown in .

In custom bases and are displayed as color coded thickness maps. Brackets obstruct a clear view of the surface of each custom base facing the respective bracket . While each custom base and is shown in in other embodiments practitioner may select a particular tooth bracket and custom base or in order to selectively display one or more custom bases or . For example practitioner may select a tooth via object selection menu which identifies particular teeth in dental arch using the Palmer Notation System. In alternate embodiments object selection menu may identify individual teeth brackets or custom bases by other suitable numbering or labeling systems such as the Universal Numbering System or the International Numbering System.

In some modes of operation practitioner may interact with GUI to disable the display of brackets . For example practitioner may use drop down menus or operating buttons provided by GUI to select an operating mode in which brackets are displayed as substantially transparent objects or to otherwise disable brackets from being displayed on GUI or from being partially or fully disabled to practitioner . An example of a display that does not include brackets is shown in . Disabling the display of brackets may enable practitioner to view one or more of custom bases and more clearly. If custom base calculation module generates a thickness map for each custom base and the removal of brackets from GUI provides an unobstructed view of the thickness maps of custom bases and . In a thickness of each custom base is shown via gray scale shading with darker portions of the shading representing a greater thickness than the lighter portions. In the embodiment shown in there is a relatively smooth continuous transition between the different shades of gray to represent the substantially continuous contour of custom bases . However discrete shades of gray may also be used. As described above in other embodiments other thickness indicators may be used such as but not limited to color coded maps contour maps or text boxes that provide a thickness value.

Just as with GUI of GUI allows practitioner to choose from any of several views of a patient s dental arch via pull down menus and or selection buttons . In the embodiment of GUI illustrated in GUI simultaneously displays three views. In particular display area depicts a full dental arch display area depicts an enlarged view of a portion of dental arch from a labial perspective and display area depicts a view of the portion of dental arch shown in display area but from an occlusal perspective. In other embodiments GUI may display any suitable number of views of dental arch .

Display area indicates that tooth B of dental arch and the respective bracket B are selected for viewing in display areas . For example GUI may indicate which tooth and or bracket is selected by visually distinguishing the selected tooth and or bracket such as by displaying the selected tooth and or bracket in another color. In the embodiment shown in practitioner may select tooth B and or bracket B by directly selecting the digital representation of tooth B and or bracket B with a mouse another peripheral pointing device or by indirectly selecting tooth B and or bracket B via menu or pull down menu . Also visible in display area are custom bases which are color coded to visually indicate the variation in thickness that results from the particular positioning of respective brackets relative to the respective teeth .

Display area illustrates a buccal view of selected tooth B and bracket B as well as a portion of adjacent teeth and brackets . The custom base for bracket B is not visible from the labial view shown in display area . However display area which illustrates an occlusal view of tooth B illustrates custom base A in addition to the selected tooth B and bracket B. GUI provides practitioner with an interface for viewing individual teeth of dental arch as well as a custom base that results from a position of a bracket relative to a respective tooth .

Practitioner may also select a view such as by a drop down menu in which brackets are displayed as substantially transparent objects or not displayed at all in order to provide practitioner with an interface in which custom bases are more visible. illustrates GUI in which brackets are displayed as substantially transparent objects. Practitioner may switch between the views shown in . The view shown in may be useful for visualizing bracket B on tooth B and the view shown in without brackets may be useful for visualizing the thickness distribution of custom bases .

A bracket adjustment mode of modeling software is shown in GUI of . In the bracket adjustment mode practitioner may select a particular bracket and adjust the position of the bracket e.g. by adjusting the translation or rotation of the bracket by refitting the bracket on the tooth or by replacing the bracket with another bracket. Practitioner may adjust a height of one of brackets by selecting the bracket e.g. using menu or by selecting the digital representation of the desired bracket within one of windows or and dragging the selected bracket in the gingival or occlusal directions or adjust a mesial distal position of one of brackets by selecting the bracket and dragging the selected bracket in the mesial direction or distal direction. Practitioner may also manipulate the selected bracket within the 3D environment to induce the desired rotational position relative to a tooth with a peripheral pointing device. Alternatively practitioner may use buttons A B to incrementally move the selected bracket in a gingival or occlusal direction respectively buttons A B to incrementally move the selected bracket in the mesial or distal directions and or buttons A B to incrementally adjust the rotational position of the selected bracket. Each click of button A B A B and A B is typically associated with a discrete movement of the selected bracket.

With each of GUIs and orthodontic appliance control module and custom base calculation module enable practitioner to interactively develop a treatment plan and corresponding orthodontic prescription that will result in a desired final occlusion using the virtual 3D model of the patient s dentition presented on the respective GUI. Each GUI may present the crowns and or the roots or gingiva of the teeth to the practitioner for visualization and interactive movement of teeth and or brackets in order to develop the treatment plan. For example practitioner may view custom bases in either the GUI shown in or B in order to determine whether the position of bracket B currently displayed whether or not bracket B itself is displayed is suitable for tooth B.

If practitioner determines that the custom base A distribution is unacceptable e.g. a thickness of custom base A at one or more portions such as at a mesial portion exceeds a threshold practitioner may manually reposition bracket B or implement a repositioning algorithm that automatically repositions bracket B. Practitioner may manually reposition bracket B using adjustment buttons A B A B and A B. Buttons A B move bracket B in an occlusal gingival direction while buttons A B move bracket B in a mesial distal direction and buttons A B adjust the rotational orientation of bracket B. Alternatively practitioner may reposition bracket B by clicking on bracket B with a mouse or another peripheral pointing device and dragging bracket B to the desired position which may include the rotational orientation.

Rather than repositioning bracket B relative to tooth B in order to achieve a better fit between bracket B e.g. to achieve a more uniform custom base A distribution practitioner may select another bracket to apply on tooth B within the 3D environment via drop down menus . After orthodontic appliance control module places the new bracket within the 3D environment relative to tooth B custom base calculation module and rendering engine may render a custom base and a custom base thickness map for the new bracket. Practitioner may subsequently determine whether the new bracket provides a better fit for tooth B based on the resulting custom base. Practitioner may also interact with GUI to view the fit of the other brackets relative to the respective teeth and reposition other brackets if necessary or desired.

In one or more exemplary embodiments various functions described in this disclosure may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in hardware the functions may be implemented in a processor. A processor may include one or more microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or the like. Such components may reside within a computing system or other systems.

If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer storage media. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Storage media may comprise computer program products. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc DVD optical discs floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A digital representation of a coupling matrix is useful for applications other than determining whether the displayed bracket provides a satisfactory fit for a patient. For example in other embodiments modeling software of computing device which renders a digital representation of a coupling matrix for a particular orthodontic appliance and tooth may also be useful for forming the actual coupling matrix. As one example in embodiments in which the coupling matrix is defined by a material that is integral with the orthodontic appliance the digital data from modeling software that defines the shape and size of the coupling matrix may be used to control the machining of the appliance to define the coupling matrix. For example modeling software may provide information relating to the configuration e.g. shape and size of the digital representation of the coupling matrix to a device that forms a graphite electrode for use with an electrical discharge machining EDM process. The face of the electrode defines the surface of the coupling matrix that mates with the surface of the patient s tooth.

As another example in embodiments in which the coupling matrix is defined by an adhesive or another dispensable coupling matrix material the digital representation of the coupling matrix may be used to guide an apparatus that automatically dispenses the adhesive. In this way the digital representation of the coupling matrix may be used to form the actual coupling matrix. Automatically dispensing the adhesive based on the volume and thickness distribution of the digital representation of the coupling matrix provided by modeling software may help reduce or eliminate flash and reduce or eliminate the practitioner s time spent in removing the flash. As previously described flash generally refers to excess coupling matrix material that for example flashes out from the perimeter of the orthodontic appliance when the appliance is applied to the tooth by the practitioner a calibrated bracket placement robot or using a 3D printed model incorporating bracket placement guides. Flash removal may be a time consuming process because of the manual dexterity skill and patience required. In addition the automatic dispensing of the coupling matrix material may help limit the amount of coupling matrix material that is wasted.

The digital representation of the coupling matrix may also be used to fabricate the coupling matrix in the desired configuration e.g. using various Solid Freeform Fabrication SFF techniques such as 3D printing. Computing device may control the fabrication or formation of the coupling matrix based on the size and geometry of the digital representation of the coupling matrix or computing device may provide the size and geometry information to another device that controls the fabrication apparatus.

The fabricated coupling matrices may then be applied to the appliance the respective one or more teeth or both using a low viscosity primer such as Transbond XT Primer available from 3M Unitek of Monrovia Calif. . In some embodiments the fabricated coupling matrices may incorporate special appendages or registration features to facilitate proper alignment with features on the appliances or guides that are incorporated into the 3D physical model of the patient s teeth to help ensure a proper fit between the tooth and the coupling matrix the appliance and the coupling matrix or both. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 689 869 entitled METHODS AND ASSEMBLIES FOR MAKING AN ORTHODONTIC BONDING TRAY USING RAPID PROTOTYPING which was previously incorporated by reference describes an example of suitable guides that may be incorporated into a 3D model of the patient s teeth.

In other embodiments a coupling matrix may be fabricated along with the 3D physical model of the patient s teeth in an indirect bonding technique. For example a first material that is soluble in a first solvent may be used as a general support material for the 3D model of the patient s teeth e.g. for supporting undercuts in geometry and a second material that is soluble in a second solvent but not the first may be used in the interface between the coupling matrix and the physical model of the patient s teeth. After an orthodontic appliance is bonded to the coupling matrix with a primer and the appliance is fixed in its desired position by an indirect bonding tray formed over the appliances and physical model the second solvent may be used to dissolve the second material thereby releasing the coupling matrix from the model. Other techniques including mechanical intervention may also be used to release the coupling matrix from the physical model of the patient s teeth.

Various embodiments of the invention have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

