---

title: Apparatus and method for generating a magnetic field by rotation of a charge holding object
abstract: A device and a method for the production of a magnetic field using a Charge Holding Object that is mechanically rotated. In a preferred embodiment, a Charge Holding Object surrounding a sample rotates and subjects the sample to one or more magnetic fields. The one or more magnetic fields are used by NMR Electronics connected to an NMR Conductor positioned within the Charge Holding Object to perform NMR analysis of the sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07602181&OS=07602181&RS=07602181
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07602181
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071213
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the University of Chicago.

The present invention relates to the generation of a Magnetic Field from the rotation of a Charge Holding Object. Preferably the Magnetic Field is used in an NMR Nuclear Magnetic Resonance system.

Magnetic Fields have a myriad of uses ranging from medical MRI chemical NMR motors generators high energy plasma physics fusion reactors particle accelerators photon sources from synchrotron radiation as well as many others. Although the creation of Magnetic Fields is a key aspect of various technologies there are only a handful of known methods for creating Magnetic Fields.

Permanent magnets are one source of a Magnetic Field. They are naturally magnetic but relative to other sources of magnetism they are bulky and produce a weak Magnetic Field. Rare earth magnets generally produce a stronger Magnetic Field compared to common iron based magnets but are too weak for most high field uses.

Electromagnets create a Magnetic Field from an electrical current. Since the Magnetic Field is directly related to the electrical current the strength of the Magnetic Field may be altered by increasing or decreasing the electrical current. Wrapping a current carrying wire into the form of a coil allows the Magnetic Field to be focused increasing flux gain of the Magnetic Field. For larger Magnetic Fields a superconducting wire is used to sustain a tremendous amount of electrical current while limiting ohmic losses dissipated energy due to wire resistance .

Superconductors are currently the only viable option for generating large and persistent Magnetic Fields for example those used in NMR. Unfortunately superconducting magnets must be continuously cooled at temperatures at least below about 100 K and typically around 4K and the cryogenic systems needed to maintain these temperatures are cumbersome and expensive to operate.

In NMR the Magnetic Fields are preferably strong homogeneous and stable. Although magnets electromagnets and superconductors are able to produce Magnetic Fields the fields are difficult to make homogeneous and stable since even very minor material defects or winding defects in magnetic coils can cause significant field distortions. These imperfections are difficult and sometimes impossible to correct. Furthermore in superconductors these imperfections cannot be easily determined until the magnetic coils are cryogenically cooled and in operation. The result is a Magnetic Field which cannot be easily perfected and is inhomogeneous thereby limiting NMR resolution.

Devices for generating small magnetic fields using direct current coils operating at room temperature have been developed to correct small distortions in the magnetic fields generated by superconducting magnets and have become essential for improving NMR resolution. The magnitudes of these correction fields are typically 10 000 times smaller than the magnetic field produced by the superconducting magnet.

Therefore it is desirable to have a device capable of generating a large Magnetic Field without requiring superconductors and the associated large cryogenic coolers. Furthermore it is desirable to have a device capable of generating a large Magnetic Field that can be finely adjusted to create a strong stable and homogenous Magnetic Field.

A device and method for generating a Magnetic Field from the rotation of a Charge Holding Object. In one embodiment a Charge Holding Object is rotated generating a Magnetic Field parallel to a Rotation Axis of the Charge Holding Object. In the preferred embodiment a strong homogeneous and stable Magnetic Field is created by the constant speed rotation of a Charge Holding Object and used in an NMR system.

A device and method for generating one or more Magnetic Fields from the rotation of a Charge Holding Object. Preferably the rotation of a Charge Holding Object produces a strong Magnetic Field used in a NMR Nuclear Magnetic Resonance system.

The Charge Holding Object is any material capable of holding an electrical charge. Preferably the Charge Holding Object is a dielectric. In the alternative conductors preferably non magnetic metals such as aluminum silver gold titanium beryllium and copper may also be used. Preferably non magnetic materials are used to avoid undesirable magnetic interaction with other magnetic and electromagnetic fields. More preferably the Charge Holding Object is made of a plastic or ceramic. In the preferred embodiment the Charge Holding Object is made of zirconia ZrO . The Charge Holding Object may have any shape including but not limited to cylindrical prolate spheroid rectangular cubicle pyramidal combinations thereof or any other shape. In the preferred embodiment the Charge Holding Object has a cylindrical shape as shown in .

The Charge Holding Object is electrically charged having excess electrons or an electron deficiency by any means known in the art. The Charge Holding Object rotates about a Rotation Axis and has a Top End and a Bottom End . Preferably the Charge Holding Object is charged by a voltage source electron gun or other electron source. Examples of electron guns include field emission thermionic electron gun for example heated tungsten such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 828 996 laser based electron guns and combinations thereof.

The Charge Holding Object may be charged and electrically insulated to prevent charge leakage. For example in one embodiment the Charge Holding Object is charged by an electron gun and stored in a vacuum to prevent charge leakage. However due to the difficulty of maintaining a strong charge in the Charge Holding Object it is preferable to continuously charge the Charge Holding Object . In the preferred embodiment the Charge Holding Object is continuously charged using a voltage source such as in the embodiment shown in .

In one embodiment the Charge Holding Object is a single homogenous material holding electrical charges while also sustaining rotation forces. In a preferred embodiment the Charge Holding Object is a material capable of rotation at high speeds and having one or more conductive coatings containing the electrical charge. Preferably the Charge Holding Object is designed to exceed 1000 rps rotations per second preferably exceeding 100 000 rps.

The Rotating Means is any means known in the art for rotating the Charge Holding Object . Preferably the rotating means utilizes a turbine or motor electric thermodynamic molecular pneumatic hydraulic or synthetic or a combination thereof design as well as any other means as known in the art. In a preferred embodiment the Rotating Means is a fluid source supplying a fluid to a turbine fixedly connected to the Charge Holding Object . Preferably a compressed gas is used to rotate the turbine and therefore the Charge Holding Object . A turbine may be preferable in NMR systems due to its simplicity and minimal electromagnetic noise.

The Rotation Means rotates the Charge Holding Object at a speed or speeds optimized for the desired one or more Magnetic Fields while below the mechanical breakdown speed of the Charge Holding Object . Preferably the Rotation Means rotates the Charge Holding Object at a speed or speeds exceeding 100 000 rps rotations per second more preferably faster than 1000 rps.

The Outer Cylinder mechanically connects the Rotating Means and the one or more Outer Conductors . Preferably the Outer Cylinder is made of a non magnetic material to prevent interaction with the one or more Magnetic Fields generated by the rotating Charge Holding Object . In a preferred embodiment the one or more Outer Conductors are used as a Outer Cylinder whereby the one or more Outer Conductors are mechanically connected to the Rotating Means . The Outer Cylinder preferably has a cylindrical shape but any other shape may also be used as known in the art. Furthermore any other connecting means may be used to connect the Rotating Means and the one or more Outer Conductors as known in the art. For example a simple frame may be used to directly mechanically connect the Rotating Means to the one or more Outer Conductors . In the alternative the Outer Conducts may themselves be used to connect the Rotating Means and the one or more Outer Conductors as depicted in and .

The Exterior Conductive Coating is an electrically conductive coating at least partially covering the Exterior of the Charge Holding Object . In a preferred embodiment the Exterior Conductive Coating is made of a non magnetic metal such as aluminum silver gold titanium beryllium copper or a combination thereof as well as other metals known in the art. Preferably the Exterior Conductive Coating completely covers the Exterior of the Charge Holding Object . In the alternative the Exterior Coating may be an Array of Electrically Isolated Elements as shown in .

The one or more Outer Conductors are each electrically conductive. In a preferred embodiment the one or more Outer Conductors are made of non magnetic metals such as aluminum sliver gold titanium beryllium copper or a combination thereof as well as other metals known in the art. Preferably the one or more Outer Conductors have a length longer than the length of the Charge Holding Object to uniformly charge the Charge Holding Object . In the alternative the one or more Outer Conductors are a plurality of conductors preferably surrounding the Charge Holding Object . The one or more Outer Conductors can each have a variety of shapes but are preferably a single cylinder surrounding the Charge Holding Object .

In order to maintain a more uniform charge across the Charge Holding Object the Exterior Conductive Coating preferably completely covers the Exterior of the Charge Holding Object and the one or more Outer Conductors are longer than the length of the Charge Holding Object or extend beyond the Top End of the Charge Holding Object and the Bottom End of the Charge Holding Object . In the alternative other variations may be desirable for creating a variety of uniform and non uniform magnetic fields.

However it may be desirable to customize the Magnetic Field by altering the Exterior Conductive Coating the one or more Outer Conductors or combinations thereof. For example if the one or more Outer Conductors run the approximate length of the Charge Holding Object the Top End and the Bottom End of the Charge Holding Object will have less of a charge than the center of the Charge Holding Object creating a non uniform Magnetic Field which may or may not be desirable depending on the application. A spheroid shaped Charge Holding Object may be desirable to create a uniform magnetic field the tapered ends of a spheroid can be employed to intensify the magnetic field at the top and bottom of the Charge Holding Object in order to compensate for end effects. The Exterior Conductive Coating may be customized for example by altering the shape distribution and material thickness.

The one or more Wire Brushes with the one or more Wires electrically connect the Voltage Source to the External Conductive Coating . The Wire Brushes electrically connect to the External Conductive Coating whereby the Charge Holding Object is allowed to rotate about its Rotational Axis . As known in the art other means may be used to electrically connect the Voltage Source to the External Conductive Coating while allowing the Charge Holding Object to rotate about its Rotational Axis . For example conductive bearings fluids gears and combinations thereof may be used to electrically connect the Voltage Source to the External Conductive Coating while allowing the Charge Holding Object to rotate about its Rotational Axis .

The Voltage Source provides a voltage difference across the Exterior Conductive Coating and the one or more Outer Conductors . The Voltage Source preferably produces a DC voltage across the Exterior Conductive Coating and the one or more Outer Conductors . In the alternative various waveforms may be supplied for example square sinusoidal triangular waves to vary the Magnetic Field . The Voltage Source preferably supplies a voltage optimized for the desired magnetic field. Preferably the Voltage Source supplies about 1 Volt to 10 000 Volts more preferably greater than 1 000 Volts. In a preferred embodiment the Voltage Source supplies about 1 000 to 5 000 Volts.

The Rotation Means rotates the Charge Holding Object . Preferably the rotation means is an electric motor air turbine or other means for rotating the Charge Holding Object as known in the art. The Rotation Means may rotate the Charge Holding Object while also rotating the counter charge the one or more Outer Conductors in the opposite direction. The counter rotation of opposite charges will increase the resulting one or more Magnetic Fields . An example of this is shown in where the Rotation Means rotates both the Charge Holding Object and one or more Outer Conductors in opposite directions.

Preferably the Charge Holding Object the Exterior Conductive Coating and the one or more Outer Conductors are optimized for maximum homogeneity of Magnetic Field . depicts a cross section view of one embodiment comprising a Charge Holding Object having an Exterior Conductive Coating as in . In this embodiment the Outer Cylinder has a cylindrical shape. The one or more Outer Conductors a conductive cylinder is positioned inside and juxtaposed to the Outer Cylinder . A First Insulator separates the one or more Outer Conductors from the Charge Holding Object . The First Insulator is electrically insulating and allows the Charge Holding Object to rotate about a Rotation Axis . Preferably the First Insulator is a gas. In the alternative the First Insulator is an electrically insulating material preferably a fluid. In the preferred embodiment the First Insulator is a liquid gas or solid perfluoropolyalkylether PFPE or derivatives. In this embodiment the First Insulator is the only separation between the one or more Outer Electrodes and the Exterior Conductive Coating . Therefore capacitance of the Charge Holding Object can be maximized by maximizing the dielectric constant of the First Insulator material. The First Insulator preferably separates the one or more Outer Electrodes and the Exterior Conductive Coating as little as possible without allowing physical interaction or dielectric breakdown. Preferably the separation between the one or more Outer Electrodes and the Exterior Conductive Coating is between 1 nm and 100 m more preferably between 10 nm and 10 m. In a preferred embodiment the separation between the one or more Outer Electrodes and the Exterior Conductive Coating is between 50 nm and 500 nm.

In the alternative the inside of the Charge Holding Object may have a conductive coating instead of the Exterior Conductive Coating as shown in and . depicts a cross section side view and depicts the corresponding cross section view of one embodiment of a Charge Holding Object having an Interior Conductive Coating . In this embodiment the Outer Cylinder preferably has a cylindrical shape. The one or more Outer Conductors comprises a conductive cylinder positioned inside and juxtaposed to the Outer Cylinder . A First Insulator separates the one or more Outer Conductors from the Charge Holding Object . The First Insulator is electrically insulating and allows the Charge Holding Object to rotate about a Rotation Axis . Preferably the First Insulator is a gas.

In the alternative the First Insulator may also be an electrically insulating fluid. In a preferred embodiment the First Insulator is perfluoropolyalkylether PFPE derivatives. This embodiment has the effect of two capacitors in series the First Insulator and the Charge Holding Object provide the adjoining first and second dielectric respectively. The overall effect of adjoining capacitor dielectrics in series is to move the plates of the capacitors further apart. Since the capacitance of any capacitor is inversely proportional to the distance between the plates the combined capacitance of the First Insulator and the Charge Holding Object will be less than the larger capacitance of the First Insulator and the Charge Holding Object . Therefore it is preferable to have the Conductive Coating on the Exterior of the Charge Holding Object when one or more Outer Conductors are used. Likewise it is preferable to have the Conductive Coating on the Interior of the Charge Holding Object when an Inner Conductor is used see .

Adhesion of Exterior Conductive Coating may fail for high rotation speeds of Charge Holding Object . Therefore for loosely adhered Coatings such as liquid films unsupported films and particle films it is advantageous to employ the Charge Holding Object as a retaining structure for such films.

The Voltage Source is electrically connected to the Exterior Coating by one or more Wire Brushes and the Electrically Conductive Container by one or more Wires . The Voltage Source electrically charges the Exterior Coating which generates a Magnetic Field when rotated. As the Sample is subjected to the one or more Magnetic Fields the NMR Electronics conduct NMR tests on the Sample using the NMR Conductor .

In this embodiment the Electrically Conductive Container is hollow and connected to the Rotation Means . In a preferred embodiment the Electrically Conductive Container has a cylindrical shape and is made of a non magnetic metal such as aluminum silver gold titanium beryllium copper or a combination thereof as well as other metals known in the art. Preferably the Electrically Conductive Container extends beyond the Charge Holding Object to provide a substantially uniform charge distribution across the Charge Holding Object .

The Container is rotatably connected to the Charge Holding Object whereby the Charge Holding Object is allowed to rotate while the Container remains stationary. In an alternate embodiment the Container is rotated by the Rotation Means while the Charge Holding Object remains stationary. In yet another alternate embodiment the Charge Holding Object and the Container are both counter rotated whereby the Charge Holding Object is rotated in a direction opposite of the Container . For example the Charge Holding Object may be rotated in a first direction by the Rotation Means while the Container is rotated in a direction opposite of the first direction by a second rotation means.

The Hollow Inner Tube is a hollow tube running within the Charge Holding Object . In a preferred embodiment the Hollow Inner Tube is made of a non magnetic material such as aluminum silver gold titanium beryllium copper or a combination thereof as well as other metals known in the art. In a preferred embodiment the Hollow Inner Tube is removable allowing the user to conveniently insert the Sample and the NMR Conductor within the Hollow Inner Tube . In a preferred embodiment the Hollow Inner Tube runs centrally through the Charge Holding Object . The Hollow Inner Tube is electrically conductive or has one or more electrically conductive layers.

In the alternative the other Hollow Inner Tube may have a variety of shapes as known in the art including but not limited to cylindrical prolate spheroid rectangular cubicle pyramidal combinations thereof or any other shape. Second NMR Conductors other than the Hollow Inner Tube may also be used for example a plurality of conductors may surround the Sample .

The Sample is placed within the Hollow Inner Tube within the one or more Magnetic Fields . In a preferred embodiment the Sample runs centrally through the Hollow Inner Tube . NMR analysis is performed on the Sample passing between the NMR Conductor and the Hollow Inner Tube .

In the alternative one or more conductors may be used as a Second NMR Conductor instead of the Hollow Inner Tube . In this embodiment the one or more Second NMR Conductors may be exterior to the sample or interior to the Sample whereby NMR analysis is performed on the Sample passing between the NMR Conductor and the single conductor.

Preferably the Sample is not rotated rather remains stationary as the Charge Holding Object is rotated. Preferably the Sample the Hollow Inner Tube and the NMR Conductor remain stationary as the Charge Holding Object is rotated. Preferably various means as known in the art are used to freely rotate the Charged Holding Object while the Sample and the Hollow Inner Tube remain stationary for example lubricants gears bearings etc.

In the alternative the Sample and the Hollow Inner Tube may be rotated with the Charge Holding Object . In this embodiment preferably one or more Wire Brushes are used to allow the Hollow Inner Tube and the NMR Conductor to rotate while maintaining their respective connections with the NMR Electronics . Other means of electrically connecting the Hollow Inner Tube and the NMR Conductor to the NMR Electronics may also be used for example conductive fluids gears ball bearings etc.

The NMR Conductor is electrically connected to the NMR Electronics and preferably the Closed End of Hollow Inner Tube . The NMR Conductor passes through the Sample . The NMR Conductor passes through the Sample preferably about parallel more preferably parallel to the Rotation Axis . The NMR Conductor is electrically conductive or has one or more electrically conductive layers. In a preferred embodiment NMR Conductor is made of a non magnetic metal such as aluminum silver gold titanium beryllium copper or a combination thereof as well as other metals known in the art. In a preferred embodiment the NMR Conductor runs centrally through the Sample . More preferably the Hollow Inner Tube the Sample and the NMR Conductor all run centrally through the Charge Holding Object . In an alternate embodiment a plurality of First NMR Conductors connected in series or in parallel may be used for NMR analysis as known in the art. In yet another alternate embodiment multiple First NMR Conductors connected to independent NMR Electronics are used to perform NMR analysis on the Sample see U.S. Pat. No. 7 271 592 hereby fully incorporated by reference.

As in the Sample the Hollow Inner Tube and the NMR Conductor remain stationary as the Charge Holding Object is rotated. Preferably various means as known in the art are used to freely rotated the Charge Holding Object while the Sample and the Hollow Inner Tube remain stationary for example lubricants gears bearings etc.

A Compressed Gas Source is connected to the Gas Line and supplies compressed gas to the Turbine . As the compressed gas passes across the Turbine which is rigidly connected to the Charge Holding Object a force is acted on the Charge Holding Object causing it to rotate.

A Voltage Source is electrically connected by one or more Wires to the Exterior Conductive Coating and the Electrically Conductive Container creating a radial Electric Field which charges the Charge Holding Object . The one or more Wires are connected to the Exterior Conductive Coating so as to not interfere with the rotation of the Charge Holding Object preferably by a wire brush or conductive fluid not shown for simplicity . NMR Electronics is electrically connected to the NMR Conductor and Hollow Inner Tube to produce a radio wave for NMR testing. Preferably the Electrically Conductive Container is at about electrical ground. In the alternative the Hollow Inner Tube is maintained at about electrical ground.

One or more Voltage Sources are electrically connected to the Array of Electrically Isolated Elements . Each Element of the Array is electrically connected by one or more Wires and one or more Wire Brushes not shown for simplicity to a corresponding Voltage Source from the one or more Voltage Sources .

A Hollow Inner Tube is positioned within the Charge Holding Object preferably centrally. The Hollow Inner Tube has a hollow center and a Closed End . The Hollow Inner Tube contains a Sample and an NMR Conductor . The NMR Conductor is connected to the NMR Electronics and the Closed End of Hollow Inner Tube . The NMR Conductor preferably runs centrally through the Sample . NMR Electronics is electrically connected to the NMR Conductor and Hollow Inner Tube to produce a radio wave for NMR testing.

Each element in the Array is electrically connected by the one or more Wire Brushes not shown for simplicity to a corresponding Voltage Source from the one or more Voltage Sources and selectively charged or discharged by the Voltage Source. For example a single Voltage Source may produce a waveform that is electronically or mechanically switched to each element of the Array . As another example the one or more Voltage Sources may be a plurality of voltage sources each connected to a corresponding element of the Array . In this embodiment the spatially sequestered charges on the Charge Holding Object can be altered and thereby alter the Magnetic Field generated by the rotating Charge Holding Object . Therefore the operator can precisely control the Magnetic Field . Preferably each Voltage Source is connected to a computer or other means of automatic control. More preferably each Voltage Source is controlled by a feedback loop comprising the NMR Electronics and a computer.

The one or more Wire Brushes not shown for simplicity allow the Charge Holding Object to rotate about its Rotational Axis . In the alternative any means to electrically connect the Voltage Source to the Array may be used for example conductive fluids gears ball bearings etc.

As in the Sample the Hollow Inner Tube and the NMR Conductor remain stationary as the Charge Holding Object is rotated. Preferably various means as known in the art are used to freely rotate the Charge Holding Object while the Sample and the Hollow Inner Tube remain stationary for example lubricants gears bearings etc.

As the Charge Holding Object is rotated the Sample is exposed to one or more Magnetic Fields generated by the rotation of the Charge Holding Object . As the Sample is subjected to the one or more Magnetic Fields the NMR Electronics conducts NMR tests on the Sample using the NMR Conductor .

In an alternate embodiment each element in the Array may be selectively charged discharged or a combination thereof by one or more Charging Pins slidably movable parallel along the length of the Charge Holding Object .

In yet another embodiment the Array of Electrically Isolated Elements is an array of electrically insulating elements. In this embodiment each element is directly charged for example by an electron gun.

In the alternative the Interior of the Charge Holding Object may similarly have an Array of Electrically Isolated Elements instead of or in combination with an Exterior Array of Electrically Isolated Elements .

The one or more Electron Guns generate electrons and accelerate the electrons towards the Charge Holding Object . Examples of Electron Guns include field emission thermionic electron gun for example heated tungsten such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 828 996 laser based electron guns and combinations thereof.

The Charge Holding Object has an Interior Conductive Coating and an Exterior Conductive Coating electrically connected to a Voltage Source by one or more Wires and one or more Wire Brushes . The Electrically Conductive Container is also connected to the Voltage Source by one or more Wires . Therefore the Charge Holding Object is charged by the one or more Electron Guns and the rotation of the Charge Holding Object generates one or more Magnetic Fields . Furthermore the rotation of the Charge Holding Object having an Interior Coating and an Exterior Coating connected to the Voltage Source also generates one or more Magnetic Fields preferably complementary magnetic fields to the magnetic field generated from charge supplied from the one or more Electron Guns .

In this embodiment a Hollow Inner Tube having a Closed End is positioned within the Charge Holding Object preferably centrally. The Hollow Inner Tube has a hollow center containing a Sample and an NMR Conductor . The NMR Conductor is connected to NMR Electronics and Closed End and preferably runs centrally through the Sample . As the Charge Holding Object is rotated the Sample is subjected to one or more Magnetic Fields generated by the charged Interior Coating Exterior Coating or Charge Holding Object . The one or more Magnetic Fields and the NMR Electronics are preferably used to perform NMR tests.

As in the Sample the Hollow Inner Tube and the NMR Conductor remain stationary as the Charge Holding Object is rotated. Preferably various means as known in the art are used to freely rotated the Charge Holding Object while the Sample and the Hollow Inner Tube remain stationary for example lubricants gears bearings etc.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

A plurality of the Charge Holding Object may be used in various configurations to create various magnetic fields as known in the art. In one embodiment one or more Charge Holding Objects are nested in a Charge Holding Object. In this embodiment all the Charge Holding Object s are preferably concentric and rotated about the same Rotation Axis.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

