---

title: Angle calibration of long baseline antennas
abstract: A method for calibrating a sensor mounted on an aircraft includes the steps of: using an optical device to create reference points which define a reference line that is parallel to both horizontal and vertical planes of the sensor, and using the reference line to calibrate the sensor with respect to a reference coordinate system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07558688&OS=07558688&RS=07558688
owner: Northrop Grumman Corporation
number: 07558688
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070420
---
This invention was made under Contract No. D05636270. The United States Government has rights in this invention under the contract.

This invention relates to methods for calibrating sensors and more particularly to methods for calibrating sensors such as antennas mounted on aircraft.

Inertial reference systems IRS are used to provide inertial navigation data for aircraft navigation. Various types of sensors can be mounted on the aircraft. An airborne sensor that is used for targeting and localization using the navigational system of the host aircraft must be calibrated to the inertial references of the aircraft. An inertial navigation unit within an aircraft provides attitude information i.e. roll pitch and heading in addition to position and velocity information. Long baseline sensors report detections with respect to their coordinate axes e.g. angle of arrival at the antenna . The orientation of the sensor s coordinate axes with respect to the inertial navigation unit s attitude angles must be determined in order to accurately convert sensor detections to recognized earth fixed coordinates e.g. latitude longitude and altitude .

For sensors that use the angle of arrival of a received signal for location determination e.g. as performed by radars and phase interferometers the location accuracy is limited by the accuracy of the angle of arrival measurements. Recent technology improvements in inertial navigation units INU have provided the opportunity for dramatic improvements in the accuracy of sensor angle measurements. However these improvements can only be realized if the INU coordinate frame can be precisely aligned with the sensor s coordinate frame. This is often very difficult to accomplish with traditional alignment techniques.

For the mechanical control technique costly and stringent tolerances of the airborne sensor system are maintained during engineering manufacturing and maintenance. There are practical physical limitations to the accuracy because the mechanical alignment is subject to tolerance error stack up e.g. adding up the mechanical tolerance or misalignment between the sensor antenna and the mounting point of the antenna on its fuselage i.e. the fuselage and the INU . A variation of the mechanical control scheme includes a second INU mounted on the sensor but it is subject to similar limitations and error stack up.

The second technique measurement of the physical misalignment involves measurements of distances between the sensor and INU using lasers and or mirrors for precision angle measurements. This technique is costly and time consuming because the INU is carried inside the aircraft s fuselage and the sensor antenna is mounted external to the fuselage so the measurement set up is relatively complex because the observations are not direct.

Iterative measurement the third technique involves using the installed sensor to locate objects that have known geolocations. The observed geolocation errors are then used to back out the misalignment. Because the geolocation errors are driven by several factors including the misalignment in more than one axis e.g. pitch roll and yaw this is an iterative and time consuming process and especially if airborne operations are required to take the measurements.

There is a need for an alignment technique that achieves greater accuracy without the drawbacks associated with the traditional techniques discussed above.

This invention provides a method for calibrating a sensor mounted on an aircraft including the steps of using an optical device to create reference points which define a reference line that is parallel to both horizontal and vertical planes of the sensor and using the reference line to calibrate the sensor with respect to a reference coordinate system.

In one aspect the sensor can be calibrated with respect to a reference coordinate system by sending an orient message to an inertial navigation unit reflecting corrections that force the inertial navigation unit to report its heading and pitch in a coordinate frame of the sensor.

In another aspect the sensor can be calibrated with respect to a reference coordinate system by adding corrections to heading and pitch angles reported by an inertial navigation unit.

The optical device can create reference points which define the reference line by directing an optical beam through first and second irises connected to the sensor and using the optical beam to establish the first and second reference points.

The locations of the first and second reference points can be used to determine the heading and pitch of the reference line.

This invention provides a method for accurately determining the difference between a long baseline antenna s orientation i.e. pitch angle and heading angle and the orientation i.e. pitch angle and heading angle of an aircraft s inertial navigation unit. This difference can be applied to the sensor s measurements as they are collected or can be sent to the inertial navigation unit so that it reports attitude in an inertial coordinate frame that is precisely aligned with the sensor s coordinate frame. No mechanical adjustments to the inertial reference system or the sensor s antenna are required when this alignment procedure is utilized.

In a first aspect this invention provides a method and apparatus for calibrating a sensor using a laser or other optical system to create a reference line that is parallel in both the horizontal and vertical planes of the sensor for example a radar antenna . The reference line serves as a baseline having a length that is much longer than the width of the sensor. For example in one implementation of the invention the baseline was approximately 1500 ft or mile for the alignment of a test sensor.

Points on the reference line are projected onto the ground to establish reference points and the coordinates of the reference points are obtained. In one example the reference points can be located using plumb bobs extending from locations on the reference line and the reference points can be physically marked. The coordinates of the reference points can be obtained by using state of the art global positioning system GPS units.

These coordinates can then be converted into precise heading and pitch values. Since the reference line is parallel to both the horizontal and vertical planes of the sensor this process determines the true attitude e.g. heading and pitch of the sensor with great accuracy. This true attitude information is compared to the attitude information of the host vehicle s mission navigation system e.g. an inertial navigation unit INU . An alignment correction can then be directly determined by comparing the true attitude of the sensor with the attitude generated independently by the INU using advanced gyro compassing techniques. The corrections can be applied within the INU by supplying an updated orient message or they can be applied to the attitude information reported by the INU in the form of additive heading and pitch delta angles.

The distances D and D from the reference points to the beam are then measured. The geographic locations of the first and second reference points can be determined using a GPS unit. Once the locations of the reference points are known the heading and pitch of the reference line can be determined using known techniques. The differences between the measured heading and pitch of the reference line and the heading and pitch reported by the INU are the heading and pitch corrections. These can be applied either by sending an orient message to the INU reflecting the corrections which will force the INU to report its heading and pitch in the coordinate frame of the sensor or by adding the correction to the heading and pitch angles reported by the INU. The first option can be used only if the sensor antenna is aligned within approximately one degree of the aircraft s fuselage or if not the INU is not used to navigate the aircraft since it would report erroneous attitude to the flight crew . The second option can be used in all circumstances.

This process results in a sensor system with higher accuracy and lower calibration costs than sensor systems calibrated using traditional methods. Tests on an example sensor have shown that the true heading of the sensor antenna can be determined to an accuracy of 0.002 degrees. This technique can be used for any long baseline antenna array where irises can be mounted a fixed distance from the forward and aft elements of the antenna array.

In one example an optical beam can be aligned through the use of two optical irises attached to the face of a radar antenna near the forward and aft ends. A laser or optical system projects a line from the antenna face to the target. In one example the target is approximately 1500 ft. away. The optical iris can be precision machined to fit into existing slots in the antenna face.

In an example an antenna mounted on an aircraft has been calibrated for use with an LN 260 inertial navigation system and two system navigation units SNU 84 s . The aircraft was towed to an antenna alignment spot on a taxiway and a radome covering the antenna was lowered. The antenna was rotated to face starboard and the antenna was leveled. Navigation data was collected for 30 minutes while the aircraft was stationary at an alignment spot.

In this example four irises were mounted on the antenna. The antenna included a plurality of slots and the irises were mounted 11 slots from the top and bottom near the front and rear of the antenna while the antenna was facing the starboard direction.

A laser was then positioned to produce a beam that passed through the center of two of the alignment irises in this case the two irises that were closest to the bottom of the antenna. This example used adjustable irises to make the spot size on the target more well defined and to create diffraction rings which could be used to more precisely locate the center of the spot. To perform the laser alignment a target was positioned to be illuminated by the laser. Then the center of the laser illumination spot on the target was marked. Reference points were established on the ground as described in .

Then the antenna was rotated to face the port direction. The measurements were repeated using the bottom set of irises on the port side these are the set of irises that were mounted 11 slots from the top of the antenna when the antenna was facing starboard . Again reference points were established on the ground.

Two GPS systems were used to simultaneously determine the location of the reference points established when the antenna was pointing port. Data was collected for more than 40 minutes.

The simultaneous GPS locations of the reference points established when the antenna was pointed starboard were also taken. With this procedure the head and pitch of reference lines for the antenna in both the starboard and port positions were established.

The test set up for the above example is illustrated in . is a schematic representation of sensor calibration using a starboard side geometry. An antenna is mounted on an aircraft not shown . A laser beam was projected through two irises mounted on the antenna so that the beam was parallel to a vertical and horizontal plane of the antenna. A plumb bob was dropped from a first point on the beam near one end of the antenna to establish a first reference point on the ground. A plumb bob was dropped from a second point on the beam near a target to establish a second reference point on the ground. The distance D from the second reference point to the beam was measured at 1.47 m. The distance D from the first reference point to the beam was measured at 0.9509 m. The boresight of the antenna points away from the starboard side of the aircraft.

Data reduction was performed using the LN260 and GPS data to determine the misalignment between the LN260 and the radar antenna in both heading and pitch. In this example the radar is insensitive to roll errors of less than two degrees which is well within the mechanical tolerance of the INU installation so roll calibration is not required. The data reduction can be implemented using a routine that determines the heading and pitch between two points given their geodetic position i.e. latitude longitude and elevation above the WGS 84 reference ellipsoid . Since the heading and pitch values are determined from the geodetic position of the antenna and target the accuracy of the calibration depends on the fidelity of the position data and the distance between the antenna and target according to the relationship D where is the angle uncertainty of the heading or pitch is the uncertainty of the position data in the latitude longitude plane for heading or uncertainty of the geodetic elevation data for pitch and D is the distance between the reference point on the antenna and the reference point e.g. laser spot on the target sheet. For the case shown the relative position uncertainty of the reference antenna points was less than 10 cm. Therefore the 496.10 meter separation between the points ensured that the heading and pitch angles of the antenna were determined with less than 2 milliradians of angular error 0.012 degrees .

The antenna was calibrated on both the port and starboard orientations to evaluate whether the antenna face was perfectly parallel to its axis of rotation.

The true heading and pitch of the antenna was determined with much greater accuracy than can be expected from previous methods both from precision and specification standpoints. This technique is simpler less expensive and can be done in house in less time than traditional techniques.

While the invention has been described in terms of a particular example it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes can be made to the described example without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

