---

title: Interactive thumbnails for transferring content among electronic documents
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems, software, computer programs, applications, and user interfaces, and more particularly, to generating a reproduction of an electronic document, such as a thumbnail, that includes an input field.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08555186&OS=08555186&RS=08555186
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08555186
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070508
---
Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems software computer programs applications and user interfaces and more particularly to generating a reproduction of an electronic document such as a thumbnail that includes an input field.

Traditional user interfaces typically provide users with interface elements and devices to copy content for example from one electronic document for pasting into another electronic document. One common technique for copying content requires a user to select the content e.g. text from a source electronic document generated by one application such as a word processing application perform a copy command and then transition to a destination electronic document generated by either the same or a different application to paste the content. Generally the source and destination documents are in separate windows. While functional there are certain drawbacks to current techniques for copying content.

Therefore current window presentation schemes often require a user to experience numerous transitions between destination windows and source windows to populate information into fields and . Often source windows and obscure each other as well as destination windows . In some cases a user might be required to expend time to open another window as well as an application to present content in a source window. Further the user might be required to perform a command to identify the particular window that will be the recipient of the copied content. Accordingly the current requirements to copy content can hinder the copying process.

It would be desirable to provide improved techniques systems and devices that minimize one or more of the drawbacks associated with conventional techniques for copying content.

Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings. Note that most of the reference numerals include one or two left most digits that generally identify the figure that first introduces that reference number.

In view of the foregoing reproduction obviates transitioning between source content panel and electronic document which can be in another panel not shown during the content transfer process according to one embodiment. A user thus can access repository via reproduction to store content portion without using a pointing device e.g. a mouse to select another panel for example by moving a pointer cursor over the other panel and clicking on a left button on a mouse. As such reproduction promotes effective copying and pasting processes by reducing disruptions that generally arise from transitioning among multiple panels. In some instances repository can be implemented as a buffer a database or any other type of memory. Further reproduction need not be rendered in a panel separate from source content panel which in turn reduces and or eliminates instances in which the multiple panels might obscure each other. In at least one embodiment reproduction provides access to repository without opening an application to generate electronic document that otherwise might be required to transfer content. As such reproduction can reduce computational overhead e.g. processor cycles memory usage etc. that otherwise would be necessary to support opening the application to implement the functionality of electronic document . In another embodiment interface is configured to implement a specialized command that performs at least the following two or more actions 1 initiating a copying operation to copy content portion 2 determining the destination such as a destination electronic document for receiving content portion and 3 pasting content portion . As such a user need not rely on using separate commands to generically copy content to generically paste content or to select a destination panel in which to paste the content. This provides for an expedited content transfer process.

In accordance with at least one embodiment an in situ document transfer unit can be configured to generate reproduction as an in situ representation of electronic document within the context of electronic document thereby enabling a user to select a destination for transferring content thereto coincident to or substantially coincident to the presentation of source content and or source content panel . In one embodiment electronic document can include one or more editable portions such as fields to and one or more non editable portions which can include graphics or text such as input field indicia which can describe the editable portions. In at least one instance in situ document transfer unit can reduce the sizes of elements constituting either the editable portions or the non editable portions or both of electronic form to form miniaturized non editable portion and miniaturized editable portions of reproduction . In at least one specific embodiment an editable portion is a portion of reproduction that a user can edit to enter content as input the editable portion being linked to a storage whereas a non editable portion is not linked to a storage at least for the purposes of transferring content.

Examples of such elements include among other things images e.g. as represented by a bitmap JPEG files MPEG or the like non editable text for describing input fields e.g. text for input field indicia non editable input field features such as the size of the one or more text boxes associated with input fields as well as editable input features such as the text that a user can enter as an input. A text box is an element of a graphical user interface such as interface that allows a user to input information to be used for example by an application program. As such in situ document transfer unit can operate to reduce the sizes of input field indicia and fields to respectively form miniaturized input field indicia and input fields for reproduction . In one embodiment in situ document transfer unit produces reproduction as a thumbnail.

Further in situ document transfer unit can be configured to establish links between input fields and memory locations . Accordingly a user can copy content portion and paste it in one of input fields to store content portion in a memory location which also is configured to receive content from one of fields such as field Input Field02 . Thus in situ document transfer unit can operate to accept the selection of one of input fields and to identify a corresponding memory location in repository that has an association with a field in electronic document . Continuing with the previous example consider that the next time the application for electronic document is activated if the application was inactive during the content transfer process field will include content portion

As used herein the term reproduction refers generally at least in one embodiment to an interface component that is an in situ representation of an electronic document that is presented in the context of performing a content transfer operation e.g. a consolidated copy and paste function within or in association with a source or a destination electronic document. A reproduction provides for in situ data transfer by enabling the copying and pasting operation to be performed in association with the same original panel without transitioning away for example from the source content being presented at its panel. In particular a reproduction can include one or more input fields that provide functionality that is equivalent to that of the input fields for the electronic document that the reproduction represents.

In one embodiment a reproduction is an interactive thumbnail that includes a thumbnail image of an electronic document and interactive features such as input fields. A thumbnail image of an electronic document and interactive features including input fields can be referred to either a thumbnail or an interactive thumbnail according to various embodiments of the invention. As used herein the term input field refers generally at least in one embodiment to a data field that accepts content such as text in real time or substantially in real time in association with the electronic form for which the reproduction is created. As used herein the term specialized command refers generally at least in one embodiment to a command that initiates when executed a content transfer operation using an interactive thumbnail. An example of a specialized command is a command that performs a consolidated copy and paste function among for example electronic documents.

As used herein the term content at least in one embodiment refers to information and or material presented within an interface in relation to for example the audio and or visual presentation of text such as an electronic document e.g. a document in Portable Document Format PDF as well as audio images audio video media such as Flash presentations text and the like. As used herein the term panel at least in one embodiment can refer to displays palettes tabs windows screens portions of an interface and the like. As used herein the term electronic form can refer at least in one embodiment to an interactive form having data input fields including a content input field for entering content. In one embodiment each of the data input fields of a reproduction of an electronic document is implemented in a single panel. In other embodiments the data input fields for the electronic form can be distributed over multiple panels. An electronic form can be an electronic document according to some embodiments. As used herein the term electronic document can refer at least in one embodiment to any data files e.g. other than computer programs or system files that are intended to be used in their electronic form without necessarily being printed whereby computer networks and electronic display technologies can help facilitate their use and distribution. Note that an electronic document can itself be defined as content at least in one embodiment. Examples of an electronic document include a document produced by a word processing application a document in Portable Document Format PDF and the like.

To illustrate the implementation of a reproduction for transferring content consider that a user selects a portion of content as content portion for transference into an electronic document that can be for example in another panel not shown or associated with an unopened application. The user can select content portion using for example a pointer cursor responsive to a user s input into a pointing device such as mouse. A user next can invoke a specialized command that initiates a copying operation to copy content portion and determines the destination electronic document not shown as recipient of content portion . In one instance a menu is presented responsive for example to the selection of content portion or a user input e.g. by right clicking a right button of a mouse . In one embodiment the user activates the specialized command by at least causing pointer cursor to hover over indicia that describes the specialized command such as a Copy Paste in DOCUMENT command. Thus indicia can provide for the transfer of content portion into an input field. In other embodiments other indicia not shown similar to indicia can be implemented to present one or more interactive thumbnails for multiple destination electronic documents.

Activation of the specialized command in whole or in part causes a reproduction of an electronic form to appear in interface . Reproduction includes indicia indicating that input fields are text fields in this example. To complete the content transfer process the user can select one of the input fields such as input field into which content portion is to be pasted. For example the user can move pointer cursor to hover over input field which is shown as Text Field04. In parallel to selecting input field the execution of the specialized command causes the pasting of content portion into input field which is shown as text thereby completing the execution of the specialized command. Optionally the specialized command can operate to refresh input field to include the pasted information as part of a refreshed reproduction

Note that in at least one embodiment input field can be a miniaturized counterpart of a field not shown for the electronic document. As such text can be of a reduced size that might not readily be readable. As such interface can present enlarged text in an enlarged content portion for enhanced readability. In one embodiment enlarged content portion can be implemented as a tool tip which is a graphical user interface element such as a box of information that appears when a pointer cursor is placed over an item. Thus when pointer cursor moves over input field enlarged content portion will be visible as long as pointer cursor remains over input field .

In some cases flow can perform one or more of the following generate an enlarged version of the portion of the source content panel at e.g. in connection with a tool tip generate a pan control interface at and generate a zoom control interface at . Optionally the specialized command can also cause the pasting the portion of the source content panel in the input field for the destination electronic document. For example the pasting of the portion of the source content panel in the input field at can be effectuated by a user causing a pointer cursor to hover over a target input field at of the interactive thumbnail. Flow terminates at .

In some examples logic module can be configured to control panel generator to form source content panels that are configured to transfer content via an interactive thumbnail. Rendering engine can be configured to operate as a layout engine for web pages for example to manipulate both content e.g. as expressed in or including HTML XML image files etc. and formatting information e.g. as expressed in or including CSS XSL etc. for rendering the data or information as one or more panels on interface . Interface module can exchange panel presentation data including content data image data audio data as well as other data between application and another application e.g. a host client web services based distributed i.e. enterprise application programming interface API operating system program procedure or others that can use data and information generated from panel generator to render presented panels on a display screen. In other examples the above described techniques and elements can be varied in design implementation and function and are not limited to the descriptions provided. In one embodiment logic module can include an in situ document transfer unit that is configured to include structure and or functionality similar to previously described in situ document transfer units.

In some examples logic module and panel generator can be implemented as part of application which can be implemented separately from other functional components or modules such as interface module display module rendering module and repository . Data bus can be implemented to communicate data over a given port between application and interface module display module rendering module and repository . In some instances application can be implemented as a standalone application or as a component i.e. module of another application. Data or information e.g. content portions accepted by input fields of an interactive thumbnail data for generating a thumbnail displacement amounts for pan control zoom in and out amounts memory locations for storing content in association with an electronic document and the like associated with a panel can be stored in repository which can be implemented using a database data store data warehouse or any other type of data repository or structure. In other examples more fewer or different modules can be used to implement the described techniques for panel presentation and are not limited to those provided.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations in which processor executes one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions can be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation. In the example shown system memory includes modules of executable instructions for implementing an operation system O S an application and an in situ document data transfer module . Application includes additional instructions to integrate the implementation of a specialized content transfer command and or an interactive thumbnail provided by in situ document data transfer module .

The term computer readable medium refers at least in one embodiment to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions can be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network can perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system can transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code can be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In one embodiment system is implemented as a hand held device such as a mobile phone . But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desk top computer or any other computing device.

In some examples one or more panels for creating electronic documents can be presented on interface which can be an interface for an application such as a web browsing program Internet content portal client or desktop application for any purpose. Panels can be used to provide additional or supplemental information that can be contextually relevant to another panel presented in interface . Computer notebook computer notebook or laptop smart phone personal digital assistant PDA server and administrator computer can provide content data for rendering content as well as other data which can be implemented to generate for example an electronic form and content input field in interface . In some cases an operating system installed on computer can communicate i.e. via an application programming interface API content data and or other related data to another application installed on computer to render i.e. interpreting data and information to draw or display the content in an interface one or more panels presented in interface . In some examples different types of panels can be rendered in interface . In one embodiment interface can include any number and or any type of display environments such as CRT and LCD displays. Note that the above described system and elements can be varied and are not limited to the descriptions or examples provided.

In at least some of the embodiments of the invention the structures and or functions of any of the above described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown in as well as their functionality can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively the elements and their functionality can be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any. As software the above described described techniques can be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Flex Fireworks Java Javascript AJAX COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. In fact this description should not be read to limit any feature or aspect of the present invention to any embodiment rather features and aspects of one embodiment can readily be interchanged with other embodiments.

Thus the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed many alternatives modifications equivalents and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description. Thus the various embodiments can be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims. Further the embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Notably not every benefit described herein need be realized by each embodiment of the present invention rather any specific embodiment can provide one or more of the advantages discussed above. In the claims elements and or operations do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.

