---

title: Signal event detection system
abstract: A soft impact location system and method which detects and processes wide-band acoustic signatures for testing long-range munitions. The system incorporates a real-time digital signal-processing algorithm that detects the impact signature, processes it, and calculates the time-of-arrival (TOA). The system comprises a polyphase filter bank, boxcar filter, a detection analyzer for detecting an impact, and time-tagging software for calculating the time of impact. The system splits the received hydrophone signal into evenly spaced energy bands, processes each band individually, and then recombines the data to provide a precise time of detection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106394&OS=09106394&RS=09106394
owner: The United States of America as presented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09106394
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070222
---
The present application derives priority from provisional patent application No. 60 777 705 filed Feb. 24 2006.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention generally relates to a system and method for detecting and time tagging surface impact acoustic signatures and more particularly to a soft impact location capability SILC system and method incorporating real time polyphase digital signal processing for detecting and time tagging surface impact acoustic signatures.

Acoustic tracking may be utilized for tracking and studying a variety of marine subjects including aquatic life seismic phenomena and man made objects such as submarines underwater munitions etc. There are numerous different types of acoustic tracking arrays. shows the SILC system each acoustic sensor is moored to the ocean bottom and is individually cabled to its own surface buoy . Each buoy contains a surface float digital signal processing DSP system a radio link and bottom mounted acoustic sensors called hydrophones which receive acoustic waves. Acoustic tracking arrays can be used for detecting the soft impacts of long range munitions . Specifically when munitions are fired they travel a distance before impacting the ocean surface . As these projectiles hit the surface the impact acoustic signature propagates through the water and is detected by sensors associated with the multiple buoys . The hydrophone signal is converted from analog to digital form in a DSP located in the buoy . The DSP system processes the impact signature and then sends the time tagged detections to a tracking and display computer via a radio link . Data from multiple buoys is utilized to determine the water surface location and impact time of the projectile. The tracking and display computer is joined to a radio receiver and located on a remote platform. The remote platform can be on land at sea or in air.

The boxcar filter or sliding average filter is a lowpass filter with a rectangle shaped impulse response akin to a box hence the name that passes low frequencies and eliminates or attenuates high frequencies. This can be implemented with a suitable Finite Impulse Response FIR filter with unit valued coefficients. The filter processes each channel separately to detect if an impact occurred. The boxcar lowpass filter has an impulse response b n 1 for n 0 1 . . . M 1 and b n 0 elsewhere. The boxcar filter output z n is the integrated energy over the most recent Msamples of its input signal.

A thresholding module examines the boxcar filter output and provides an indication whether an impact occurred on the ocean surface . When the measured energy of a signal output from a boxcar filter exceeds the detection threshold t a detection is registered with a logic and time stamp module . The detection threshold t is chosen proportional to a measured noise power level so that a constant false alarm rate is achieved. In signal detection theory a false alarm occurs where a non target event exceeds the detection criterion and is identified as a target. The threshold is 1 where the term represents the noise power level which is continuously calculated by a separate system. The separate system squares each incoming value and then averages the sum of the squares divide by n to calculate . The term k is the threshold multiplier and is calculated by obtaining the false alarm rate curves which allow the system operator to select k to provide the desired false alarm rate. Thus when a signal exceeds the detection threshold t k a detection is registered and information regarding the shape of the detected pulse is extracted. This information includes the time of arrival TOA pulse strength and pulse duration. The pulse time of arrival TOA is estimated by finding the time corresponding to the peak change in the boxcar output over the detection period. That is if z n denotes the boxcar filter output the change in the filter output is given by 

Logic and time stamp module combines the detection and TOA results from the single band detectors to identify a broad band event. Once a detector produces a detection other single band detectors are examined to see if additional detections exist. For a broad band detection to be reported several individual detection bands must report detections within a user specified maximum inter band timing skew MITS time window. Otherwise the detection information is discarded as a narrow band false alarm. Also for each broad band detection report the reported TOA is the average of TOA values from the individual bands. The reported pulse width is the longest pulse width over all detection bands.

To detect gunfire impacts which are typically broad band events previous impact systems incorporating DSP algorithms implemented multiple narrow band detectors each examining a separate frequency band. This prior art approach suffers from a number of drawbacks including the large computational requirements for real time operation. Additionally many channels are required to monitor a wide range of frequencies making it impractical for use in tracking soft impacts from a wide range of munitions types.

Thus it would be greatly advantageous to provide a soft impact location system which 1 incorporates a computationally efficient real time polyphase digital signal processing DSP algorithm 2 processes wide band acoustic munition signatures 3 monitors the entire Nyquist frequency band for energy 4 has parameter flexibility maximum inter band timing skew or MITS number of frequencies required for a detection etc. 5 allows users to tailor the DSP algorithm to accommodate many different testing environments and munition types 6 utilizes software that simulates the DSP algorithm and estimates performance.

It is therefore the primary object of the present invention to provide a soft impact location system and method that incorporates a computationally efficient real time polyphase digital signal processing algorithm.

Another object is to provide a soft impact location system that processes wide band acoustic munition signatures.

Still another object is to provide a soft impact location system which monitors the entire Nyquist frequency band for energy.

It is still another object to provide a soft impact location system that has parameter flexibility MITS number of frequencies required for detection etc. .

Yet another object is to provide a soft impact location system that accommodates many different testing environments and munition types.

Still another object is to provide a soft impact location system that utilizes software that simulates the incorporated digital signal processing algorithm and estimates performance.

In accordance with the foregoing objects the preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a soft impact location system and method which detects and processes wide band acoustic signatures for testing long range munitions. The system incorporates a real time digital signal processing algorithm that detects the impact signature processes it and calculates the time of arrival TOA . The system comprises a polyphase filter bank boxcar filter a detection analyzer for detecting an impact and time tagging software for calculating the time of impact. The system splits the received hydrophone signal into evenly spaced energy bands processes each band individually and then recombines the data to provide a precise time of detection.

In operation the input signal x n is a digital signal provided to a multiplier where it is multiplied by a complex exponential signal e thereby translating the spectrum of interest to the origin. The complex exponential multiplied signal is transferred to a lowpass filter labeled h n . The low pass filter is the same for each center frequency. The filtered signal is then decimated in the decimation module . The decimation rate D is D N as calculated above. The decimated signal is transferred to the logic and time stamp module . Logic and time stamp module determines whether an impact has occurred and when the impact occurred in order. Logic and time stamp module output provides an indication that a detection has occurred and a signal indicating the time of detection . This can be transmitted to a centralized receiver. All of the operations of detector are preferably embodied as software on a digital signal processor such as of .

IFFT is an efficient algorithm for analyzing frequencies contained in a sampled signal for digital signal processing . The output samples from the N sample inverse fast Fourier transform processor are the complex signals y n which are input to the logic and time stamping module . Logic and time stamping module operates the same as discussed with reference to . This provides an output as above.

The method of time tagging the impact generally comprises the following steps setting polyphase algorithm parameters step generating a synthetic impact at a specific signal to noise ratio SNR step inputting impact into polyphase algorithm step and calculating time tag standard deviation for each SNR step .

Step involves setting polyphase algorithm parameters. Two key polyphase algorithm parameters are the number of frequency channels N and the length B of the boxcar integration filter of . Each parameter affects performance and thus each is varied to determine its affect on time tag statistics. The number of frequency channels N and the length B of the boxcar integration filter are varied based on the time duration of the impact signal of interest. The desired effect on time tag statistics is to determine the set of parameters to maximize the accuracy of the time tag.

Step follows in which a realistic controllable surface impact is generated for testing. For present purposes synthetic Blind Loaded Plugged impacts are generated for testing. Other impacts could have different characteristics. Blind Loaded Plugged munitions are nonexplosive rounds that are typically used for naval gunfire testing. These projectiles consist of a forged steel body filled with inert homogenous dry material to maximize safety during non combat operations and are fitted with a dummy nose plug. The base of a Blind Loaded Plugged projectile is flat and solid with a caliber boat tail and a single wide rotating copper band to provide obturation and spin. One of the most common types of rounds that the Navy uses in testing is the 5 54 Caliber Blind Loaded Plugged MK92 1 Projectile.

Step begins with substep manipulating noise samples involves manipulating white and Gaussian noise samples into synthetic impact signals. Manipulating noise samples involves extracting information from both the time and frequency domain from a real Blind Loaded Plugged impact.

As an example illustrates a time domain plot of a real Blind Loaded Plugged impact starting at 1 second. The signature was received on a bottom mounted hydrophone in 50 meters of water 100 meters from the point of impact. The noise before and after the impact was eliminated in the plot. These impact data are sampled at a rate of 48 000 samples per second.

Substep follows in which noise samples are passed through a finite impulse response filter. Following that is substep multiplying filtered noise samples by a time domain impact envelope signal. At this point the signal is a synthetic impact starting at time 0 seconds. Substep involves delaying the impact in time to a random known start time. Because the average power of the synthetic impact is controllable noise is added to the impact in substep and the result is an impact that starts at a known time at a specified SNR.

Step follows in which the synthetic impact at user controlled SNR values is to be used as an input signal x n to the polyphase algorithm to generate time tag statistics i.e. statistical accuracy of time of arrival for assorted combinations of algorithm parameters . Step involves calculating these statistics which include the time tag standard deviation versus SNR for a given N B polyphase algorithm parameter combination.

Timing performance was best and quite consistent at boxcar values B 50 100 and 200 msec. When B was changed to other values 150 250 and 300 msec the time tag standard deviation was above the desired value of 0.5 msec over the entire range of SNRs and thus the boxcar size parameter has a definite effect on performance. A boxcar value Mwhich creates an integration period of 50 msec yields the best performance. The number of frequency bands N does not have a significant impact on performance.

It should now be apparent that the above described system provides a computationally efficient real time polyphase digital signal processing algorithm for monitoring wide band event signatures over the entire Nyquist frequency band for energy. While this invention was specifically developed for acoustically detecting projectile impacts it should not be limited to this application.

Additional disclosure concerning this invention is provided by Kennedy Soft Impact Location Capability SILC Modeling Blind Loaded and Plugged Impacts and Timing Statistics for the Polyphase Impact Detection Algorithm NUWC NPT Technical Memo 05 028 and Kennedy A Real time Polyphase Digital Signal Processing Algorithm for Detecting and Time tagging Surface Impact Acoustic Signatures Proceedings of UDT Europe Conference June 2005 which are incorporated by reference herein.

Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the appended claims.

