---

title: Apparatus and method to test abrasion resistance of material using airborne particulate
abstract: An apparatus and method to test the abrasion resistance of materials. In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises a conduit network, a primary air stream generating device to generate a primary air stream in the conduit network, a secondary air stream generating device to produce a secondary air stream in the conduit network, and a particulate handling device to deposit particulate into the conduit network so that the particulate enters the secondary air stream. The conduit network merges the secondary air stream into the primary air stream to allow the particulate to enter the primary air stream, and allow the primary air stream to blow the particulate at a test sample positioned within the conduit network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07448941&OS=07448941&RS=07448941
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07448941
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070502
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to an apparatus and method to simulate abrasion in a controlled manner caused by air borne particulates.

Prior art techniques for testing abrasion resistance such as the Taber test and the Bayer test typically use a rubbing or scratching mechanism to test materials for abrasion resistance. Specifically either an abrasive material is rubbed across the test sample surface or the test sample is rubbed against an abrasive surface. While these tests do provide valuable data they do not accurately or reliably predict resistance to impact damage from wind borne particulate matter. These prior art techniques are typically used to test hard protective coatings to determine their resistance to scratching. However such protective coatings are prone to shattering upon impact of a fast moving object such as a grain of sand. Consequently coatings and materials may pass a prior art abrasion test e.g. Taber test but fail rapidly when exposed to an environment wherein there is blowing or airborne particulate. Furthermore many prior art abrasion testers use a relatively slow time scale damage event that is not representative of the applied stresses and strain rates induced by the impact of windborne or airborne particulates. The timescale of the impact is significantly shorter than the damage from a prior art rubbing type test which may cause a shift in polymer materials from ductile to brittle failure modes.

What is needed is an apparatus and method to accurately and reliably test the abrasion resistance of a material to impact damage from wind borne or airborne particulate matter.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method that can test the resistance of a material to the impact of air borne or wind borne particulate matter.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method to test the resistance of a material to impact of air borne or wind borne particulate matter which can be implemented at reasonable cost.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an apparatus to test the resistance of a material to impact of air borne or wind borne particulate matter wherein the apparatus is relatively smaller in size than prior art abrasion testing devices.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an apparatus to test the resistance of a material to impact of air borne or wind borne particulate matter wherein the test duration with the apparatus can be shorter than weathering and wear under natural conditions.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the ensuing description and the accompanying drawings.

Thus in one aspect the present invention is directed to an apparatus to test the abrasion resistance of materials comprising a conduit an air stream generating device to generate an air stream in the conduit and a device to deposit particulate into the conduit so that the air stream blows the particulate toward a test sample positioned in the conduit.

In a related aspect the present invention is directed to an apparatus to test the abrasion resistance of materials comprising a conduit network a primary air stream generating device to generate a primary air stream in the conduit network a secondary air stream generating device to produce a secondary air stream in the conduit network and a particulate handling device to deposit particulate into the conduit network so that the particulate enters the secondary air stream. The conduit network merges the secondary air stream into the primary air stream to allow the particulate to enter the primary air stream and to allow the primary air stream to blow the particulate a test sample positioned within the conduit network.

In one embodiment the apparatus of the present invention generally comprises a large fan or blower to generate a constant primary air stream having a velocity between about 10 and 60 mph. This primary air stream is directed at a test sample. A motorized auger or other type of device meters a particulate into a secondary air stream powered by a second relatively smaller blower or fan. A conduit or duct network connects the two airstreams such that a constant volume or mass of particulate per unit time is introduced into the primary air stream that is directed at the test sample.

In a related aspect the present invention is directed to a method to test the abrasion resistance of materials comprising the steps of providing a conduit generating an air stream in the conduit and depositing particulate into the conduit so that the air stream blows the particulate toward a test sample positioned in the conduit.

In a further aspect the present invention is directed to a method for testing the abrasion resistance of materials comprising generating a primary air stream generating a secondary air stream depositing particulate into the secondary air stream merging the secondary air stream into the primary air stream to allow particulate to enter the primary air stream and directing the primary air stream at a test sample.

Important features of the present invention include the capability to vary i the air speed of the primary air stream ii the particulate density in the primary air stream and iii the particulate itself.

Referring to there is shown apparatus for testing the abrasion resistance of materials in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention. Apparatus generally comprises a primary air stream generating device to generate a primary air stream and secondary air stream generating device to produce a secondary air stream . Apparatus further comprises particulate handling device to deposit particulate into the secondary air stream . In a preferred embodiment particulate handling device comprises a device to meter the particulate into secondary air stream . In one embodiment particulate handling device comprises a motorized auger. Apparatus further comprises conduit network . Conduit network comprises conduit network sections A and B. Conduit network section B merges secondary air stream into conduit network section A so as to allow particulate to enter primary air stream . Conduit network section A directs primary air stream at a test sample positioned within conduit network section A. In one embodiment primary air stream generating device and secondary air stream generating device are configured as fans. In another embodiment primary air stream generating device and secondary air stream generating device are configured as blowers. Conduit network can be configured as with pipes ducts etc.

Referring to in a preferred embodiment apparatus further comprises diffuser located at the end of conduit network section B so that the output of diffuser is directed into primary air stream . In one embodiment diffuser comprises a series of pipes and progressively increasing in length. Each pipe and has an opening and respectively. Since the lengths of pipes and are different the openings and are located at various angles and elevations in primary air stream such that the density of particulate in primary air stream is uniform. Preferably pipes and are spaced apart so that openings and respectively are equally spaced apart and the distance between openings and is greater than or equal to the size of test sample . Preferably opening is at an elevation in the primary air stream so that particulate emanating from opening travels in a direction indicated by path and strikes an upper portion of test sample . Similarly middle opening is at an elevation in the primary air stream so that particulate emanating from opening travels along path and strikes a middle portion of test sample . Similarly lowest opening is at an elevation in the primary air stream so that particulate emanating from opening travels along path and strikes a lower portion of test sample . The distance X between diffuser and test sample . The preferred relationship of the distance X between diffuser and test sample and the height Z between the top of test sample and highest opening is represented by equation 1 1 wherein V is the velocity of primary air stream velocity and g is the gravitational constant.

In a preferred embodiment apparatus is configured so that particulate is sand and diffuser releases the sand from at the top of primary air stream as shown in so the effect of gravity will reduce the required air pressure from second air stream generating device .

Referring to in a preferred embodiment conduit network further comprises section that is relatively wider than conduit network section A. Thus primary air stream travels through the relatively narrow conduit network section A to test sample and then travels through the relatively wider section . The difference in cross sections of the narrow and wide portions A and respectively should be such that the linear air velocity of primary air stream decreases sufficiently in the relatively wider section thereby enabling the particulate e.g. sand to drop out of primary air stream .

Referring to in a preferred embodiment apparatus further comprises at least one filter positioned downstream from test sample to vent the airflow from conduit network . In a preferred embodiment filter is a high efficiency particulate air HEPA filter which reduces chronic inhalation hazards from fractured abrasive particles. Preferably the airflow capacity of filter is matched to the combined output of primary and secondary air stream generating devices and respectively to maintain the proper air velocity. Filter preferably has a configuration that ensures the backpressure created by filter is not higher than the rating of primary air stream generating device . This avoids premature wear of the motor in primary air stream generating device and the resulting decrease in the velocity of the primary air stream due to such motor wear.

Referring to in a preferred embodiment apparatus further comprises control device to adjust primary air stream generating device so as to adjust or vary the air velocity of the primary air stream . For example if primary air stream generating device comprises a blower then control device adjusts the blower so as to adjust or vary the velocity of primary air stream . It has been found that different airspeeds can be used to mimic different weather conditions. Thus control device allows for the simulation of different weather conditions. In a preferred embodiment control device varies the velocity of the primary air stream between about 10 and 60 mph. The ability to vary the velocity of primary air stream also allows the use of a single type of particulate e.g. sand or other abrasive particles to simulate different types of abrasion by matching the kinetic energy KE of the abrasive particles to the kinetic energy of abrasive particles under the desired conditions wherein the kinetic energy is represented by equation 2 KE mv 2 wherein m is the mass of the abrasive particle and v is its velocity. Thus a higher velocity primary air stream can be used to simulate a slower moving larger abrasive particle and a slower lower velocity primary air stream can simulate a lighter faster moving abrasive particle.

Referring to there is shown apparatus for testing the abrasion resistance of materials in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. Apparatus uses only a single air stream. Thus apparatus generally comprises air stream generating device to generate air stream . Apparatus further comprises particulate handling device to deposit particulate into air stream . In a preferred embodiment particulate handling device comprises a device to meter the particulate into air stream . In one embodiment particulate handling device comprises a motorized auger. Apparatus further comprises conduit network . Conduit network directs air stream at a test sample positioned within conduit network . In one embodiment air stream generating device is configured as a fan. In another embodiment air stream generating device is configured as a blower. Conduit network can be configured with pipes ducts etc. Apparatus further comprises diffuser located within and joined to conduit network . Diffuser has substantially the same structure as diffuser see and performs the same function as diffuser and therefore is not discussed here in detail. The output of diffuser is directed into air stream . In a preferred embodiment apparatus is configured so that particulate is sand and diffuser releases the sand from at the top of air stream as shown in .

Referring to in a preferred embodiment conduit network further comprises conduit that is relatively wider than conduit network . Thus air stream travels through the relatively narrow conduit network to test sample and then travels through the relatively wider conduit . The difference in cross sections of the narrow conduit network and respectively should be such that the linear air velocity of air stream decreases sufficiently in the relatively wider conduit thereby enabling the particulate e.g. sand to drop out of air stream .

Referring to in a preferred embodiment apparatus further comprises at least one filter positioned downstream from test sample to vent the airflow from conduit network . In a preferred embodiment filter is a high efficiency particulate air HEPA filter which reduces chronic inhalation hazards from fractured abrasive particles. Preferably the airflow capacity of filter is matched to the combined output of air stream generating device to maintain the proper air velocity. Filter preferably has a configuration that ensures the backpressure created by filter is not higher than the rating of air stream generating device . This avoids premature wear of the motor in air stream generating device and the resulting decrease in the velocity of air stream due to such motor wear.

Referring to in a preferred embodiment apparatus further comprises control device to control air stream generating device so as to adjust or vary the air velocity of air stream . For example if air stream generating device comprises a blower then control device adjusts the blower so as to adjust or vary the velocity of air stream . It has been found that different airspeeds can be used to mimic different weather conditions. Thus control device allows for the simulation of different weather conditions. In a preferred embodiment control device varies the velocity of air stream between about 10 and 60 mph. The ability to vary the velocity of air stream also allows the use of a single type of particulate e.g. sand or other abrasive particles to simulate different types of abrasion in the same manner as achieved by control device see .

Comparison tests were conducted using the present invention and a prior art Taber test method. The prior art Taber test imparted shallow scratches on the test sample while the test implemented in accordance with the present invention created larger impact sites on the test sample. This impact damage creates more visible haze in transparent materials.

The present invention obtains a more realistic and representative measure of actual performance of a coating by using the particulate and variable air speed to produce an impact on a test sample. Furthermore the use of particulate such as sand in a relatively large cross section of moving air better simulates natural conditions in comparison to prior art abrasion testing devices and techniques. Furthermore such a device can simulate accelerated wear conditions by increased particulate density in the air stream.

An important advantage of the apparatus of the present invention is that it is relatively small in physical size and takes up less space in comparison to many prior art devices. Apparatuses and can also be scaled down to a size that will fit on a tabletop or lab bench for smaller test specimens.

Numerous commercial products are subject to blowing sand and other abrasive particulates during normal use. Since rubbing type abrasion testers do not necessarily provide good predictive data of resistance to blowing particulate abrasion the present invention will be of great value to the development of protective coatings and outdoor materials for a variety of industries including eyewear optical lenses outdoor cameras and sensors photovoltaic cells fabrics outdoor building materials paint vehicle parts engine parts etc. The present invention also has numerous military applications since it can provide important data about materials and equipment with respect to the resistance of such materials and equipment to abrasion by windborne or airborne particulate.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is neither intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

