---

title: Movable partitions, components for movable partitions and related methods
abstract: Movable partitions and various components for use with movable partitions are disclosed along with related systems and methods. In one embodiment, a track and trolley system for use with a movable partition is described. In one embodiment, the track and trolley system may include a track having three channels wherein a first partition is suspended from the first channel, a second partition is suspended from the second channel, and a trolley is partially disposed in the third channel and between the first and second channels. Seal components may be used to substantially provide a fluid seal between the partitions and a surface from which the partitions are suspended. The trolley is configured to be longitudinally displaceable along the third channel while maintaining its components within an envelope defined by the seal components. In other words, such seal components are not penetrated or otherwise breached by the displaced trolley.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07845386&OS=07845386&RS=07845386
owner: Won-Door Corporation
number: 07845386
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071102
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 856 676 filed Nov. 3 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to movable partitions and more particularly to systems apparatuses and methods for reducing or eliminating fluid flow across such movable partitions.

Movable partitions are utilized in numerous situations and environments for a variety of purposes. Such partitions may include for example foldable or collapsible doors configured to close off an opening in order to enclose a room or to subdivide a single large room into one or more smaller rooms. The subdivision of a larger area may be desired for example to accommodate the simultaneous meeting of multiple groups. In such applications movable partitions are useful among other things for providing privacy and noise reduction.

Movable partitions may also be used to act as a security barrier a fire barrier or as both. In such a case the movable partition may be configured to automatically close upon the occurrence of a predetermined event such as the actuation of an associated alarm. For example one or more movable partitions may be configured as a fire door or barrier wherein each door is formed with a plurality of panels connected to each other by way of hinge mechanisms. The hinged connection of the panels allows the door to fold up in a compact unit on one side of the opening or it may be stored in a pocket formed within a wall the pocket being designed to conceal the door and preserve the aesthetics of the room in which the door is installed. When deployment of the door is necessary the door is driven by a motor along a track the track often being incorporated into the header above the door until the leading edge of the door often defined by a component called the lead post complementarily engages a mating receptacle. Such a mating receptacle may be referred to as a jamb or a door post when formed in a fixed structure such as a wall or as mating lead post when formed in another door or movable partition. The lead post when properly engaged with the door jamb or the mating lead post allows corresponding latching mechanisms to engage if desired and helps to provide a desired seal e.g. a seal with respect to airflow sound waves or both .

However even when a movable partition is properly closed due to the various and numerous moving components associated with a movable partition the movable partition may not always provide the desired level of seal from one side of the deployed movable partition to the other. In other words fluid flow through one or more locations may reduce the effectiveness of the door to act for example as a smoke barrier or a sound barrier.

Some efforts have been made to prevent the lateral displacement of the lower edge of such a movable partition to prevent fluid flow beneath the movable partition. For example U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 097 101 entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND SYSTEM FOR DIRECTIONALLY CONTROLLING A MOVABLE PARTITION 11 796 325 entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLING A MOVABLE PARTITION and Provisional Application No. 60 856 957 entitled MOVABLE PARTITIONS WITH LATERAL RESTRAINT DEVICES AND RELATED METHODS the disclosures of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties discuss various means of reducing or preventing the lateral displacement of the lower edge of a movable partition.

However even if the lower edge of a movable partition is restrained leaks across the partition may still occur at various locations. In certain circumstances such leaks may individually represent a relatively small flow of air or other fluid across the partition but the cumulative effect of such leaks can be deleterious to the performance of the partition regardless of whether the partition is being used for example as a smoke barrier or a sound barrier.

Reduction in fluid flow across a partition such as a movable partition used as for example a fire smoke security or sound barrier in order to make such apparatuses and systems more effective and more efficient is a continued pursuit of the industry.

The present invention is directed to movable partitions components for movable partitions systems including movable partitions and related methods. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a track and trolley system for a movable partition is provided. The system may include a track having a central channel extending longitudinally therethrough a first outer channel located on a first lateral side of the central channel and a second outer channel located on a second lateral side of the central channel. One or more rollers may be coupled to a frame member. The frame member and the roller or rollers may each be disposed in the central channel and longitudinally displaceable relative to the track.

Additionally the track and trolley system may be configured such that the central channel defines a pathway for a drive chain and such that the frame member and the roller or rollers are located and configured to avoid interference with the pathway.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a track for a movable partition is provided. The track may include a structure having at least one elongated channel formed therein and defining a longitudinally extending opening in a surface of the structure. A first seal component may have a seal lip that extends at least partially across the opening in a first lateral direction. A second seal component may further have a seal lip extending at least partially across the opening in a second lateral direction. The seal components may be configured such that their respective seal lips are contiguous with one another or such that they laterally overlap.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the present invention a movable partition is provided. The movable partition may include a track having at least one elongated channel formed therein and defining a longitudinally extending opening in a surface of the channel. A first seal component may include a seal lip that extends at least partially across the opening in a first lateral direction and a second seal component may have a seal lip that extends at least partially across the opening in a second lateral direction. A plurality of panels is hingedly coupled to one another to form a plicated structure and at least one pin is coupled to at least one panel of the plurality of panels. The pin may extend from the at least one panel through the opening and into the at least one elongated channel. At least one roller may be coupled to the at least one pin and disposed in the at least one elongated channel.

In another embodiment of the movable partition at least one channel may include a first channel and a second channel with a central channel being located between the first channel and the second channel. The movable partition may further include a trolley including a frame member having a web member a first leg on a first side of the web member and a second leg member on a second side of the web member. A first roller may be coupled to the first leg and a second roller may be coupled to the second leg. The frame member the first roller and the second roller may each be disposed in the central channel and longitudinally displaceable relative to the track.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the present invention another movable partition is provided. The partition includes a first plicated structure having a plurality of hingedly coupled panels and a second plicated structure having a plurality of hingedly coupled panels. A track includes a central channel extending longitudinally therethrough a first outer channel located on a first lateral side of the central channel and a second outer channel located on a second lateral side of the central channel. The first plicated structure is associated with the first outer channel and the second plicated structure is associated with the second outer channel. A trolley comprising a frame member and at least one roller coupled to the frame member are disposed in the central channel and longitudinally displaceable relative to the track.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention another movable partition is provided. The movable partition includes a plurality of panels hingedly coupled to one another to form a plicated structure. A layer of insulation is disposed on a surface of the plicated structure and at least one fastening apparatus is coupled to at least one panel of the plurality of panels the at least one fastening apparatus being located and configured to substantially fix the layer of insulation relative to the plicated structure. A layer of sealant is configured and located to substantially fluidly seal the layer of insulation and the plurality of panels.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the present invention a method of operating a movable partition is provided. The method includes suspending a first plicated structure having a plurality of panels from a first channel of a track and suspending a second plicated structure having a plurality of panels from a second channel of the track. A trolley is at least partially disposed in a third channel of the track wherein the third channel of the track is disposed between the first and second channels. A first fluid seal is substantially formed between the first plicated structure and a surface above the first plicated structure and a fluid seal is substantially formed between the second plicated structure and a surface above the second plicated structure. The trolley is longitudinally displaced along the track while the trolley is maintained within an envelope defined by the first fluid seal and the second seal.

Various other embodiments of the invention are described herein and will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading of the detailed description.

Referring to a system is shown which includes a movable partition for example in the form of an accordion type door . The door may be used for example as a security and or fire door. In other embodiments the door need not be utilized as a fire or security door but may be used for example for the subdividing of a larger space into smaller rooms or areas or it may be used as a sound barrier. The door may be formed with a plurality of panels that are connected to one another with hinges or other hinge like members. The hinged connection of the individual panels enables the panels to fold relative to each other in an accordion or a plicated manner such that the door may be compactly stored in a pocket formed in a wall A of a building when in a retracted or folded state.

When it is desired to deploy the door to an extended position for example to secure an area such as an elevator lobby during a fire the door is displaced along a track and across the space to provide an appropriate barrier. When in a deployed or an extended state a leading edge of the door shown as a male lead post complementarily or matingly engages with a jamb or door post that may be formed in a wall B of a building. As can be seen in an accordion type door may include a first accordion style partition A and a second accordion style partition B which is laterally spaced from the first partition A it is noted that only one panel is shown in for purposes of convenience and clarity in describing embodiments of the invention . Such a configuration may be utilized for example as a fire door wherein one partition A may act as a primary fire and smoke barrier the space between the two partitions A and B may act as an insulator or a buffer zone and the second partition B may act as a secondary fire and smoke barrier. Such a configuration may also be useful in providing an acoustical barrier when the door is used to subdivide a larger space into multiple smaller rooms.

A drive which may include for example a motor and a transmission member such as a drive belt or chain may be configured to open and close the door upon actuation thereof. A trolley is coupled to a portion of the chain and configured to ride or slide along the track . The trolley may be coupled to for example the lead post such that displacement of the trolley results in corresponding displacement of the lead post and the various panels attached thereto. Referring briefly to an end view of a track is shown which may be used in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. A first channel may be configured for receipt of slide mechanisms or rollers that may be attached to individual panels associated with a first partition e.g. partition A while a second channel may be configured for receipt of similar slide mechanisms or rollers associated with a second partition e.g. partition B . A central channel may be disposed between the two partition channels and and may be configured for receipt of the trolley as well as provide a raceway for the belt or chain .

Referring back to the door system may further include various sensors and switches to assist in the control of the door through appropriate connection with the motor such as by way of an appropriate controller as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art . For example as shown in when used as a fire door the door may include a switch or actuator commonly referred to as panic hardware. Actuation of the panic hardware enables a person located on one side of the door to cause the door to open if it is closed or to stop the door while it is closing allowing access through the barrier formed by the door for a predetermined amount of time.

It is noted that while the presently described embodiment is more specifically directed to a single accordion type door other movable partitions may be utilized. For example a two door or bi part door system may be utilized wherein two similarly configured doors extend across a space and join together to form an appropriate barrier. Also the present invention is applicable to movable partitions or barriers other than the accordion type doors that are specifically shown and described herein.

Referring briefly now to a partial cross sectional view is shown of portions of a prior art device including a track and a trolley for a lead post. also includes portions that are not part of the prior art device which are shown in dashed lines. The trolley includes a frame member having rollers coupled to laterally spaced ends thereof. The track includes a central channel in which a portion of the trolley is disposed and which acts as a raceway for a drive chain chain not shown in . A first channel is located on a first side of the track and receives a first set of rollers of the trolley . A second channel is located on an opposing side of the track and receives a second set of rollers of the trolley . The central channel is disposed between the first and second channels and and provides a raceway for a drive belt or drive chain as well as receives a portion of the trolley such as a structure that may be coupled to the drive chain or a structure that may act as a chain or belt tensioner or idler.

As also shown as parts that are not part of the prior art device but are used to illustrate possible hinged panels superimposed in dashed lines for purposes of clarity as they may be used with the prior art device of . In this possible implementation a flexible seal component is located at the upper portion of the panels and is intended to be in contact with the track and ceiling or other supporting structure to which the track is affixed. However because the frame member of the trolley extends across the centerline of each the first and second channels and and therefore across the centerline of each pathway of the suspended panels the frame member of the trolley penetrates through the region in which the flexible seal component is disposed and causes the flexible seal to be displaced away from the track as indicated by dashed lines and creates a significant gap through which fluid flow may occur. The gap allows a certain amount of air smoke or noise to pass across the partitions . In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the gaps created by the prior device are substantially reduced or eliminated to improve the ability to seal a door and prevent or at least minimize fluid flow from one side of the door to the other.

Referring now to with general reference to an embodiment of the present invention is shown regarding a track and trolley arrangement. The trolley may include a frame member having a web portion A and two downwardly extending leg portions B and C. One or more rollers A may be coupled to the first leg portion B and one or more rollers B may be coupled to the second leg portion C. It is noted that in the embodiment depicted by the frame member is oriented and configured substantially opposite to that of the prior art device described with respect to . In other words the legs of the frame member used in the prior art device extended substantially upward from the web member of the frame in contrast with the embodiment described with respect to . While the orientation described with respect to may provide certain advantages the prior art orientation may also be utilized in conjunction with the present invention.

When installed in the track the rollers A and B are disposed in the central channel of the track . This is in contrast with the prior art device which was configured such that the rollers associated with the frame member were disposed in the laterally outward partition channels and not in the central channel. By configuring the frame member and the associated rollers A and B such that the rollers A and B are located within the central channel there is no structural member or other component of the trolley that extends beyond the centerline of either of the first or second channel and and thus of the corresponding centerline path of each partition A and B or individual panels thereof .

Because there are no components extending through the centerline the flexible seal components located at the top of the panels remain in substantial contact with the track and the ceiling or other structure in which the track may be installed eliminating the gaps created by the prior art device previously described with respect to .

It is further noted that the embodiment shown and described with respect to still maintains the ability for the chain or drive belt to pass through the channel without interference with the trolley . Additionally the reduced width of the frame member and corresponding positioning of the rollers A and B or sliding structures or other mechanisms provides increased stability to the lead post which is attached to the trolley e.g. by way of frame components due to the reduced bending of the frame member and corresponding lateral displacement of the lead post . Indeed the configuration of the trolley in conjunction with its cooperative positioning within the central channel of the track enables the trolley to support a greater load as compared to the previously described prior art device.

Referring briefly back to in conjunction with another embodiment of the present invention is shown and described. As already described a number of the panels of the partitions A and B in some embodiments all of them have rollers or slide mechanisms attached to them to support them from the first and second channels and of the track . The rollers may be coupled to the panels by way of a pin or other similar structure fastened to the panel . The pins since they extend between the panels and the channels and in which the associated rollers are disposed provide another point of potential leakage or fluid flow across the partitions A and B of the door . Because each panel straddles the centerline of an associated channel and from which they are supported fluid flow may occur from a location exterior to the partition e.g. partition A into the associated channel e.g. and into the space between the two partitions A and B. Fluid flow may then occur across the other partition e.g. partition B in a similar manner.

In one embodiment of the present invention seal components are installed in association with the channels and of the track to further reduce fluid flow across the door . Referring briefly to an example of a seal component is shown. The seal component may include an L shaped component such as shown or may exhibit various other cross sectional configurations. Example dimensions of a seal component according to one embodiment include the following dimension A may be approximately 0.335 inch approximately 8.5 millimeters mm dimension B may be approximately 0.375 inch approximately 9.5 mm dimension C may be approximately 0.04 inch approximately 1 mm dimension D may be approximately 0.4 inch approximately 10 mm dimension E may be approximately 0.963 inch approximately 24 mm dimension F may be approximately 0.015 inch approximately 0.04 mm and R may be approximately 0.04 inch approximately 1 mm . However such dimensions are merely examples and it will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that other configurations may be utilized. The seal component includes a seal lip which is substantially flexible and is substantially elastically deformable. In one embodiment such a seal component may be formed of a material such as polyvinylchloride PVC although other materials may be utilized.

As seen in two such seal components may be utilized in conjunction with a channel e.g. channel with the seal lips of each seal component being substantially contiguous with each other or even overlapping each other by a desired dimension. The seal components may be installed for example using an adhesive material disposed between the seal component and the track .

The pins associated with the panels protrude through the seal formed by the seal components causing the seal lips to deflect as indicated in . The seal components substantially wrap around the pins and when the pins are displaced along the track such as when the door is deployed or retracted the seal lips return to their normal position such as shown in in the absence of such pins . Thus the seal components serve to minimize fluid flow that may otherwise occur across a partition e.g. A by way of the associated channel e.g. channel .

Referring now to another embodiment of the present invention is shown and described. One or more layers of insulation may be disposed on or adjacent an inner surface of the partition A i.e. the surface of the partition located within the space of the door . For example a layer of fiberglass insulation having a foil backing may be installed near the upper edge of the partition A. Clips or other fasteners may be used to fix the insulation in place relative to the panels . However even with the clips or other fasteners holding the insulation in place fluid flow may occur along a path traveling between the insulation and the individual panels . To prevent or minimize such fluid flow a sealant such as a foil tape may be placed over an edge of the insulation and also adhered to the inner surface of the partition A. Other means of sealing may likewise be used to form a seal between the insulation and the inner surface of the partition A.

While the invention may be susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and have been described in detail herein. However it should be understood that the invention is not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the invention includes all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following appended claims.

