---

title: Beam ablation lithography
abstract: Provided are beam ablation lithography methods capable of removing and manipulating material at the nanoscale. Also provided are nanoscale devices, nanogap field effect transistors, nano-wires, nano-crystals and artificial atoms made using the disclosed methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08173335&OS=08173335&RS=08173335
owner: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
number: 08173335
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070713
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2007 016006 filed Jul. 13 2007 which application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 830 904 filed Jul. 14 2006 the entirety of each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention is generally related to the field of nanotechnology. The present invention is also related to the field of semiconductor fabrication processes in particular the fabrication of electrodes and devices integrating nanoscale electrodes. The present invention also pertains to processes for preparing nanometer scale device features. The present invention also pertains to a variety of electronic photonic semiconductor and quantum effect devices.

The invention was made with U.S. Government support. The Government may have certain rights in the invention under ONR Young Investigator Award No. N000140410489 American Chemical Society ACS PRF Award No. 41256 G10 NSF Career Award No. DMR 0449553 NSF MRSEC No. DMR00 79909 and NSF IGERT Program Grant No. DGE 0221666.

The last few decades have witnessed myriad breakthroughs in studies on single molecules nanometer scale structures and quantum phenomena in general. Exciting results continue to emerge at a rapid rate and proposed applications for them are quick to follow. In order to realize these applications and pursue research at similar and even smaller scales reliable methods are needed to electronically connect atoms molecules nanostructures and other components at the nanoscale. Further advancements in size reduction and geometrical control of nanostructures below about 10 nm will open unique new possibilities in the study of plasmonics superconductivity spintronics and quantum electronics. Such an advancement will also open the door to a wide range of studies in nanofluidics and even has the potential to enable high speed DNA sequencing.

Transmission electron beams TEBs have long been used to study materials at nanometer scales and in some cases have also been shown to affect a material s structure during imaging. Although it has been know that TEBs are capable of altering nanoscale material structure there is still an urgent need to reliably fabricate nanoscale structures with even greater accuracy and precision compared to currently existing techniques. There is also a present need for more flexible and rapid fabrication technique that can be easily inspected using TEM.

For large scale integration of many electronic components superconducting nanowires are desirable to minimize the heat dissipation. Studies of the breakdown of superconductivity as a function of the reduced wire size is of practical importance in determining the limit to miniaturization of superconducting electronic circuits. It remains to be established whether there is a limit to how thin a superconducting wire can be before its character changes from superconducting to normal and what sets this limit. Studies of quantum suppression of superconductivity have been reported down to 15 nm wires which were fabricated on suspended carbon nanotubes. One problem with the fabrication method using suspended carbon nanotubes is that once the superconducting nano wire goes normal the generated Joule heat is not efficiently removed out from the wire and the wire easily melts consequently it is difficult to study the normal and insulating regimes. Accordingly there is a present need for a reliable geometrical control of local normal and superconducting regimes.

Accordingly the present invention provides beam lithography processes comprising providing a supported membrane characterized as being transparent to a beam the membrane comprising at least two surfaces forming a surface material layer onto one of the surfaces of the membrane orienting the surface material layer side of the support membrane facing away from a beam source imaging the surface material layer increasing the magnification to bring the beam to crossover at a location spatially proximate to a desired ablation location of the surface material layer and removing surface material layer from the desired ablation location.

The present invention also provides transforming processes comprising providing a supported membrane characterized as being transparent to a beam the membrane comprising at least two surfaces forming a surface material layer onto one of the surfaces of the membrane orienting the surface material layer side of the support membrane facing away from a beam source imaging the surface material layer increasing the magnification to bring the beam to crossover at a location spatially proximate to a desired location of the surface material layer and transforming the crystal structure of the surface material layer at the desired location.

The present invention also provides a variety of devices nanogap field effect transistors nano wires nano crystals and artificial atoms made using the disclosed methods.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying figures and examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific devices methods conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed invention. Also as used in the specification including the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. When a range of values is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. All ranges are inclusive and combinable.

It is to be appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described herein in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Further reference to values stated in ranges include each and every value within that range.

As employed above and throughout the disclosure the following terms unless otherwise indicated shall be understood to have the following meanings.

 Nanoscale refers generally to dimensions in the range of from about 0.1 nanometer nm up to about 100 nm.

 Support membrane refers generally to a thin material that is physically supported by an adjacent stronger material support membrane and thin layer support membrane are generally synonymous as used herein.

 Surface material layer refers generally to an initial thin surface material that is to be nano sculpted by the ablating beam and is physically supported by a support membrane.

In the present invention the ablating beam can be electron beams ion beams atom beams neutron beams and arbitrary particle beams. In preferred embodiments the ablating beam is transmission electron beam and the ablating beam source is provided by a transmission electron microscopy which is able to achieve about 0.1 nm resolution images. In an embodiment of present invention the initial ablating beam can be split into multiples beams using existing methods in the art to enable parallel ablation at multiple ablation locations on the surface material layer.

The initial surface material layer is prepared to be nano sculpted by the ablating beam. This initial surface material layer can be prepared on a thin support membrane that is by itself essentially transparent to the ablating beam. Suitable support membranes include any of a variety of thin film materials that are typically used in the field of semiconductor and photonic devices. Preferred thin film materials include silicon nitride low stress amorphous silicon nitride silicon oxide and gallium arsenide. Window grids for use in transmission electron microscopy TEM can be suitably used as support membranes such as those commercially available from SPI Supplies Inc. West Chester Pa. http www.2spi.com catalog instruments silicon nitride.shtml . Support membranes can be provided using CVD or any suitable thin film deposition processes known in the art. Accordingly many different types of support membrane compositions and geometries are possible. For example any of the below listed compounds and compositions and combinations thereof can be prepared into support membranes using methods know in the art low stress amorphous silicon nitride galium nitride amorphous carbon indium arsenide aluminum oxide Aeschynite Rare Earth Yttrium Titanium Niobium Oxide Hydroxide Anatase Titanium Oxide Bindheimite Lead Antimony Oxide Hydroxide Bixbyite Manganese Iron Oxide Brookite Titanium Oxide Chrysoberyl Beryllium Aluminum Oxide Columbite Iron Manganese Niobium Tantalum Oxide Corundum Aluminum Oxide Cuprite Copper Oxide Euxenite Rare Earth Yttrium Niobium Tantalum Titanium Oxide Fergusonite Rare Earth Iron Titanium Oxide Hausmannite Manganese Oxide Hematite Iron Oxide Ice Hydrogen Oxide Ilmenite Iron Titanium Oxide Perovskite Calcium Titanium Oxide Periclase Magnesium Oxide Polycrase Rare Earth Yttrium Titanium Niobium Tantalum Oxide Pseudobrookite Iron Titanium Oxide members of the Pyrochlore Group such as Betafite Rare Earths Calcium Sodium Uranium Titanium Niobium Tantalum Oxide Hydroxide Microlite Calcium Sodium Tantalum Oxide Hydroxide Fluoride Pyrochlore Sodium Calcium Niobium Oxide Hydroxide Fluoride Ramsdellite Manganese Oxide Romanechite Hydrated Barium Manganese Oxide members of the Rutile Group such as Cassiterite Tin Oxide Plattnerite Lead Oxide Pyrolusite Manganese Oxide Rutile Titanium Oxide Stishovite Silicon Oxide Samarskite Y Rare Earth Yttrium Iron Titanium Oxide Senarmontite Antimony Oxide and members of the Spinel Group such as Chromite Iron Chromium Oxide Franklinite Zinc Manganese Iron Oxide Gahnite Zinc Aluminum Oxide Magnesiochromite Magnesium Chromium Oxide Magnetite Iron Oxide Spinel Magnesium Aluminum Oxide Taaffeite Beryllium Magnesium Aluminum Oxide Tantalite Iron Manganese Tantalum Niobium Oxide Tapiolite Iron Manganese Tantalum Niobium Oxide Uraninite Uranium Oxide Valentinite Antimony Oxide Zincite Zinc Manganese Oxide or any combination thereof. In preferred embodiments the support membranes are suitably chosen from low stress amorphous silicon nitride.

The thin film materials that give rise to suitable support membranes are preferably supplied as thin films on one or both sides of a silicon support wafer. Preferably the support membrane is highly polished such that the surface roughness is less than about 10 nm per square micron. Thin film deposited silicon support wafers are subsequently processed to remove portions of the silicon support to yield silicon supported thin films. Thin film etching can also be carried out to control the thickness of the resulting thin film support membrane.

Suitable support membranes typically have a thickness in the range of from about 0.1 nm to about 1000 nm and can be unsupported but are preferably supported on a substrate such as silicon. Suitable support membranes supported on a substrate form a free standing support membrane window. Free standing support membrane windows that can be suitably used in various embodiments of the present invention typically have an area in the range of from about 10square microns to about 10square microns. There is nothing in principle that prevents the window from being arbitrarily small or large so any size is possible from about 100 square nanometers up to about 1 square millimeter. The free standing support membrane window can have almost any shape such as a circle square rectangle triangle or other polygon having 4 or more sides. In preferred embodiments the support membranes have a thickness of from about 20 to 60 nm. Further information about preparing support membranes can be found in Grant A. W. et al. 2004 15 1175 Morkved T. L. et al. Vol. 39 No. 16 pp. 3871 3875 1998 and Pandey R. K. et al. 2004 27 139. A plurality of support membranes can also be provided on wafers.

The initial surface material layer that will be nano sculpted by the ablating beam can be any solid. Preferred surface materials include aluminum chromium nickel and silver. Any of the below listed can be prepared as surface material layer aluminum chromium nickel silver iron manganese cobalt titanium copper gold silicon carbon carbon nanotubes graphene silicon nitride low stress amorphous silicon nitride gallium nitride amorphous carbon indium arsenide aluminum oxide Rare Earth Yttrium Titanium Niobium Oxide Hydroxide Titanium Oxide Lead Antimony Oxide Hydroxide Manganese Iron Oxide Titanium Oxide Beryllium Aluminum Oxide Iron Manganese Niobium Tantalum Oxide Aluminum Oxide Copper Oxide Rare Earth Yttrium Niobium Tantalum Titanium Oxide Rare Earth Iron Titanium Oxide Manganese Oxide Iron Oxide Hydrogen Oxide Iron Titanium Oxide Calcium Titanium Oxide Magnesium Oxide Rare Earth Yttrium Titanium Niobium Tantalum Oxide Iron Titanium Oxide a member of the Pyrochlore Group a member of the Rutile Group Cassiterite Tin Oxide Plattnerite Lead Oxide Pyrolusite Manganese Oxide Rutile Titanium Oxide Stishovite Silicon Oxide Samarskite Y Rare Earth Yttrium Iron Titanium Oxide Senarmontite Antimony Oxide a member of the Spinel Group or any combination thereof.

The initial surface material layer that will be nano sculpted by the ablating beam can be formed onto one side of the support membrane surface by using existing methods such as electron beam and photo lithography. A suitable surface material layer has a thickness in the range of from about 10 nm to about 50 nm. In preferred embodiments surface material layers have a thickness in the range of from about 10 nm to about 50 nm and have a form in the shape of thin strips.

The surface material layer side of the support membrane faces away from and perpendicular to the source of the beam. As far as imaging the membrane can be either face up or down. The image collection system typically does not distinguish between the two orientations. It is sometimes beneficial to orient the surface material layer side of the support membrane face down so that upon being exposed to the intense ablating beam removed portion of the surface material layer is pushed off of the surface instead of being mashed into the surface as could be the case if the support membrane were face up.

The present invention can further comprise a step of identifying a desired location on the surface material layer to be ablated. The identifying step can be conducted using the standard imaging modes of the microscope with magnifications typically below 100 000 or below 80 000 or below 60 000 or even below about 40 000 and with reduced beam intensity that is not sufficient to result in any ablation.

After identifying a desired location on the surface material layer the magnification is increased for example as high as 200 000 or even 300 000 or even 400 000 or even 500 000 or even 600 000 or even 700 000 or even as high as 800 000 . The ablating beam can be brought to crossover several nanometers away from the metal for last minute sharpening of the caustic spot. Depending on the sensitivity of the surface material to the ablating beam the distance between the beam and the surface material layer can be in a range of from about 1 nm to about 5000 nm or between 2 and 2500 nm or between 4 and 1000 nm or even between 8 and 500 nm. Once the caustic spot is made as small as possible the beam can be aimed at the desired location on the surface material layer to be ablated to perform the actual ablation. If at any time it is desirable to end the ablation the beam need only be broadened away from crossover and the ablation will stop almost immediately.

The present invention can be conducted using computerized control which would allow for greater precision and more rapid fabrication. The computerized control can be facilitated by using the current density that passes through surface material layer and support membrane as a feedback control. The current density will be lower if the ablating beam is over an area of surface material layer plus support membrane than it is over support membrane only. When the ablating beam is over an area of surface material layer plus the support membrane the current density will increase as ablation proceeds and therefore the computer which is able to read the current density and also control the spot that the ablating beam is over is then able to know where the ablating beam is with respect to the edges of the surface material layer and can sense the ablation action in real time.

In an embodiment of a device fabricated with the present invention a robust geometrical control can be achieved to vary dimensions of a nano wire. A nano wire with modulated diameter along its length would have modulated local regions of normal and superconducting behavior for a nano wire with modulated regions larger than some critical size the modulated width will result in periodically modulated critical temperature along the wire length. Different materials can be made as electrodes to create S N and S I modulated wires and use normal and or superconducting electrodes. Modulation of electrodes whether one or both are normal or superconducting will put these devices in different universality classes and would allow the study of quantum phase transitions.

Sometimes if the intensity of the ablating beam is not strong enough to result in actual ablation a portion of the surface material layer that is exposed to the narrowly focused ablating beam can be moved by the beam on the support membrane. In an embodiment of a device fabricated with the present invention a nano island of a surface material can be moved by a narrowly focused electron beam between two electrodes on a support membrane. The nano island of surface material can also be welded to one of the two electrodes by the narrowly focused electron beam.

The present invention can be used to change the crystal structure of the surface material. In one embodiment of present invention a submonolayer of amorphous metallic islands supported on a thin support membrane can be transformed into partially crystalline and ultimately single crystalline by a narrowly focused electron beam.

In these examples ablating lithography was performed on thin low stress amorphous silicon nitride support membrane. The thickness of thin support membrane was about 40 nm. The ablating beam was provided by a JEOL 2010F Transmission Electron Microscopy TEM . The smallest attainable beam diameter on this instrument was about 0.5 mm. Production of wafers with well defined square regions of free standing insulator only material is straightforward to achieve and easy to make in large numbers. They are also available commercially from Structure Probe Inc. SPI West Chester Pa. http www.2spi.com .

An initial metal that was to be nano sculpted was patterned onto the support membrane in the form of thin strips using existing methods such as electron beam and photo lithography. The thickness of the metal thin strips are in the range of from about 10 nm to 50 nm. The membrane was then loaded into the TEM chamber with the metallized side facing away from and perpendicular to the source of the electron beam i.e. face down . Using the standard imaging modes of the TEM a desired location on the metal was identified while imaging at magnifications below 100 000 and with reduced beam intensity where no ablation was observed. After the ablation location was identified the magnification was then increased to about 800 000 and the electron beam was brought to crossover i.e. the minimum beam diameter several nanometers away from the metal for last minute sharpening of the caustic spot. Without computerized assistance it took less than 10 seconds to achieve the smallest caustic spot. Then the electron beam was aimed at the caustic spot and the actual ablation occurred. During the actual ablation the diameter of the beam was about 0.5 nm and the intensity of the beam was about 50 10A cm s. When the electron beam was broadened away from crossover the ablation stopped almost immediately.

