---

title: Methods, devices, and computer program products for limiting search scope based on navigation of a menu screen
abstract: A method of operating an electronic device includes displaying a search field in a menu screen including a plurality of icons representing respective application programs. Selection of at least one of the plurality of icons is visually indicated responsive to navigation of the menu screen. A search scope is limited to at least one database associated with at least one application program represented by the selected at least one of the plurality of icons. The at least one database is searched using the limited search scope responsive to entry of a search string including one or more alphanumeric characters in the search field. If found in the at least one database, at least one search result including the search string is displayed. Related devices and computer program products are also discussed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577417&OS=08577417&RS=08577417
owner: Sony Mobile Communications AB
number: 08577417
owner_city: Lund
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20070626
---
The present invention relates to electronic devices and more particularly to search functionality in electronic devices.

Electronic devices such as personal computers and mobile terminals increasingly provide a variety of communications multimedia and or data processing capabilities. For example mobile terminals such as cellphones personal digital assistants and or laptop computers may provide storage and access to data in a wide variety of multimedia formats including text pictures music and or video.

Storage capacity in electronic devices may increase exponentially in the next several years. For example it is believed that storage capacity may double at a higher rate than processor speed and or transmission bandwidth. As such electronic devices and may store gigabytes and even terabytes of data in the near future.

Due to the increasing storage capacity provided by electronic devices search functionality may become increasingly important in managing larger amounts of data. In conventional electronic devices users may search for data by entering a string of alphanumeric characters in a search field and or by navigating to the location or folder in which the data is stored via a menu system. For example mobile terminals such as mobile phones may offer a search field within particular applications for instance searching for particular messages within a messaging application searching for particular names within a contacts application etc. . In addition Zi Corporation s Qix is a search and discovery engine for mobile phones that provides a search interface from the standby screen of a mobile phone. Also personal computers may offer both search and navigation functions to aid users in finding desired data stored in memory devices associated with the computer.

According to some embodiments of the present invention methods of operating electronic devices include displaying a search field in a menu screen including a plurality of icons representing respective application programs. Selection of at least one of the plurality of icons is visually indicated responsive to navigation of the menu screen. A search scope is limited to at least one database associated with at least one application program represented by the selected at least one of the plurality of icons. The at least one database is searched using the limited search scope responsive to entry of a search string including one or more alphanumeric characters in the search field. If found in the at least one database at least one search result including the search string is displayed.

In some embodiments the least one database is searched prior to executing the application program represented by the selected one of the plurality of icons.

In other embodiments the menu screen may be a main menu and or a standby menu screen in a mobile terminal. In some embodiments the at least one search result may be displayed in the menu screen. In other embodiments the least one search result may be displayed after executing the application program represented by the selected one of the plurality of icons.

In some embodiments at least one sub database accessible by the database may be searched using the limited search scope.

In other embodiments the search result may be displayed along with an icon associated with the database in which the search result was found. For example in some embodiments the icon may be a pictorial representation of a functionality of the application program associated with the database. In other embodiments the icon may be a pictorial representation of a category associated with the search result.

In some embodiments a plurality of search results including the search string may be displayed in an order that is based on the at least one database in which the plurality of search results were found and or the at least one application program represented by the selected at least one of the plurality of icons. In other embodiments a plurality of search results from a plurality of databases may be displayed in an order such that ones of the plurality of search results found in a same one of the plurality of databases are grouped together.

According to further embodiments of the present invention an electronic device includes a user interface a memory a display and a search module. The user interface is configured to provide navigation of a menu screen. The memory is configured to store application programs and databases associated therewith. The display is configured to display a search field in the menu screen. The menu screen also includes a plurality of icons representing the respective application programs. The display is further configured to visually indicate selection of at least one of the plurality of icons response to navigation of the menu screen via the user interface. The search module is configured to limit a search scope to at least one database associated with at least one application program represented by the selected at least one of the plurality of icons. The search module is further configured to search the least one database using the limited search scope responsive to entry of a search string including one or more alphanumeric characters in the search field. The display is further configured to display the at least one search result including the search string if found in the least one database.

In some embodiments the device may further include a processor that is configured to execute the application program represented by the selected one of the plurality of icons. The search module may be configured to search the least one database prior to execution of the application program by the processor.

In other embodiments the menu screen may be a main menu and or a standby menu screen in a mobile terminal. In some embodiments the display may be configured to display the at least one search result in the menu screen. In other embodiments the display may be configured to display the at least one search result after execution of the application program represented by the selected one of the plurality of icons.

In some embodiments the display may be configured to display the search result along with an icon associated with the database in which the search result was found. For example in some embodiments the icon may be a pictorial representation of a functionality of the application program associated with the database. In other embodiments the icon may be a pictorial representation of a category associated with the search result.

In some embodiments the display may be configured to display a plurality of search results including the search string in an order that is based on the at least one database in which the plurality of search results were found and or the at least one application program represented by the selected at least one of the plurality of icons. In other embodiments the display may be configured to display a plurality of search results from a plurality of databases in an order such that ones of the plurality of search results found in a same one of the plurality of databases are grouped together.

Although described above primarily with respect to method and electronic device aspects of the present invention it will be understood that the present invention may be embodied as methods electronic devices and or computer program products.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which illustrated embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless expressly stated otherwise. It should be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly coupled or directly connected to another element there are no intervening elements present. Furthermore connected or coupled as used herein may include wirelessly connected or coupled. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items and may be abbreviated as .

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first multimedia device could be termed a second multimedia device and similarly a second multimedia device could be termed a first multimedia device without departing from the teachings of the disclosure.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as methods devices and or computer program products. Accordingly the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk or C a conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or lower level code such as assembly language and or microcode. The program code may execute entirely on a single processor and or across multiple processors as a stand alone software package or as part of another software package. The program code may execute entirely on an electronic device or only partly on the electronic device and partly on another device. In the latter scenario the other device may be connected to the electronic device through a wired and or wireless local area network LAN and or wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and or the present specification and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

For purposes of illustration embodiments of the present invention are described herein in the context of a mobile terminal. It will be understood however that the present invention is not limited to such embodiments and may be embodied generally as any electronic device that provides search functionality as described herein.

Some embodiments of the present invention may arise from realization that conventional search functionality in electronic devices may lack intuitive sorting and or filtering capabilities and as such relatively large amounts of search results or hits may be found when searching which may limit the usefulness of the search. Accordingly some embodiments of the present invention may use navigation of a menu screen to narrow or limit a scope of the search. For example in a mobile phone a user may highlight or otherwise visually indicate selection of an icon that represents a particular application on a main menu screen or active standby screen and a search scope may be limited to one or more databases associated with the particular application represented by the highlighted icon. In addition the search results may be displayed on the main menu standby screen of the mobile phone prior to and or without executing the application represented by the highlighted icon. Accordingly the scope of a search may be narrowed in a more natural and or intuitive manner based on navigation of a menu screen.

As noted above the mobile terminal may further include a user interface coupled to the processor . The user interface may include a microphone a display such as a liquid crystal display a joystick a keyboard keypad a touch sensitive display a dial a directional key s and or a pointing device such as a mouse trackball touch pad etc. . For example the keyboard keypad may be operable to define alphanumeric characters symbols on the display . However depending on functionalities offered by the mobile terminal additional and or fewer elements of the user interface may actually be provided. For instance the touch sensitive display may functionally replace a display a keypad and or a pointing device . The touch sensitive display may display a plurality of virtual command and or control buttons. The command control buttons may be selected by touching a stylus on the touch sensitive display at the appropriate location s of the virtual buttons shown on the touch sensitive display for example to select and or launch an application via a displayed menu screen. The foregoing components of the mobile terminal may be included in many conventional mobile terminals and their functionality is generally known to those skilled in the art. As will be explained in detail below the processor and the memory are configured in accordance with at least one embodiment described herein.

Referring now to the processor is configured to communicate with the memory and the display via a data bus . The display may be configured to display data that is provided via the processor . The memory may be configured to store several categories of software such as an operating system applications programs and input output I O device drivers . The operating system controls the management and or operation of system resources and may coordinate execution of programs by the processor . The I O device drivers typically include software routines accessed through the operating system by the application programs to communicate with input output devices such as those included in the user interface of and or other components of the memory . The memory further includes data for the application programs including a plurality of databases 

The application programs are illustrative of programs that implement various features according to embodiments of the present invention and preferably include at least one application which supports operations for providing a search function. More particularly the application programs may include a messaging application such as an e mail and or text messaging application a music application such as a media player and or MP3 file player application a camera application and a search module . For example in some embodiments the search module may include an application programming interface API that supports requests for search functions from one or more of the application programs . In other embodiments the application programs may each include separate search functionality which may be collectively represented by the search module .

The data stored in the memory may include various databases that may be associated with the application programs . The databases may include files names contacts e mails text messages and or other data that may be stored in the memory and accessed by the application programs . More particularly the data may include a messages database a music database and a pictures database . For example the messages database may store e mail text messages and or other messaging related data associated with and or viewable using the messaging application . Likewise the music database may store music files and or other music related data such as digital rights management data associated with and or playable via the music application and the pictures database may store image files and or other image related data associated with and or captured via the camera application . In addition a database may be associated with multiple application programs. For example the pictures database may store image files that are viewable by both the camera application as well as an image viewer application not shown .

The databases and and or may also include one or more sub databases. For example the messages database may include a text messages sub database and an e mail messages sub database. In other embodiments however the databases and or themselves may be sub databases that are accessible by a single database stored in the memory . The databases may be internally stored in the memory of the electronic device however the databases may not be necessarily stored in the same physical memory unit. For example the messages database may be stored in a non removable memory of a mobile terminal while the music database may be stored in a removable memory device associated with the mobile terminal such as a memory card.

Accordingly in some embodiments of the present invention the display is configured to display a menu screen including a plurality of icons further illustrated in representing respective ones of the application programs . For example in a mobile phone the menu screen may be a main menu and or a standby menu screen from which the application programs may be accessed and or from which phone numbers may be dialed. Alternatively in a personal computer the menu screen may be a start screen and or start menu for a particular operating system. The display is also configured to visually indicate selection of one or more of the icons on the menu screen responsive to navigation of the menu screen by a user via the user interface for example based on movement of an on screen cursor via the navigation keys of . As used herein an icon may refer to a graphical and or textual representation of an application program which may be displayed via the display . For instance the display may be configured to visually indicate selection of one or more graphical icons by highlighting underlining and or darkening the icon s responsive to navigation of the menu screen. Also the display may be configured to visually enclose one or more icons within an object such as an ellipse rectangle triangle and or other polygon responsive to navigation of the menu screen.

In addition the display is configured to display a search field in the menu screen along with the icons representing the application programs . The search field is associated with the search module and is configured to accept a search string including one or more alphanumeric characters. In some embodiments the display may display the search field as a permanent part of the menu screen for example along a lower portion of the menu screen so as not to interfere with the icons representing the application programs . Alternatively the display may display the search field responsive to user input via the user interface after highlighting one or more of the icons. For example in a personal computer the display may highlight one or more graphical icons responsive to depressing or clicking a left mouse button and may display the search field responsive to clicking a right mouse button while the icon is highlighted. Likewise in a mobile phone the display may highlight one or more graphical icons responsive to selection thereof via the navigation keys and may display the search field responsive to depression of a particular button on the keypad while the icon is highlighted. The display may also display the search field on top of and or at least partially overlapping one or more of the icons responsive to the user input via the user interface.

Still referring to the search module is configured to query one or more of the databases in the memory to provide a search function. More particularly responsive to entry of the search string in the search field the search module is configured to search the databases and identify data that includes the search string. The search string may define words numbers proper names places locations and or portions thereof that may be associated with the data that the user desires to find in the databases . As such the search string may be used to limit the number of search results or hits provided by the search module .

In addition the search module is configured to limit the scope of the search to one or more of the databases based on their association with one or more of the application programs . More particularly the search module is configured to limit the search scope to the database s associated with the application program s represented by a selected icon s as visually indicated by the display . For example when a camera icon representing the camera application is highlighted in the main menu screen of a mobile phone responsive to navigation of the menu screen and a search string is entered in the search field the search module may limit the scope of the search to the pictures database . In other words the search module may only identify data in the pictures database that includes the search string. However the search module may also search one or more sub databases that may be accessible by the database associated with the highlighted application program using the limited search scope. For instance responsive to entry of the alphanumeric characters in the search field when an envelope icon representing the messaging application is highlighted the search module may query the messages database along with e mail and or text message sub databases of the messages database to identify data including the entered search string. In addition the search module may be configured to search highlighted ones of the sub databases. For example responsive to highlighting the graphical icon representing the messaging application in a main menu the display may present a list of three textual icons such as SMS MMS and E mail . The search module may be configured to search a sub database associated with one or more of the textual icons responsive to highlighting one or more of the textual icons. Thus the search module may be configured to search one or more databases associated with an application program represented by a highlighted icon prior and or without executing the application program. Accordingly the search module may be configured to narrow the search scope to one or more of the databases responsive to navigation of the menu screen via the user interface.

The search module may return a list of data including the entered search string as search results if such data is found in the database s that were searched using the limited search scope. The search module may provide the search results if any to the display via the processor . The display is configured to display at least one search result returned by the search module . For example the display may be configured to display the search result s in the menu screen itself on top and or partially overlapping the displayed icons. Thus the search result s from a particular one of the databases may be displayed without executing the associated application program. Alternatively the display may be configured to display the search result s in a subsequent screen after execution of the application program by the processor . The display may also be configured to display the search results along with a graphical and or textual icon representing the database in which the search result was found. The icon may be displayed adjacent to the search result such as immediately preceding and or following the displayed search result. In some embodiments the icon may be a pictorial representation of a functionality of the application program associated with the database. For example search results found in the messages database may be displayed along with an envelope icon while search results found in the music database may be displayed along with a musical note icon. In addition the icon may be a pictorial representation of a category associated with the search results. For instance for search results found within the music database a musical note icon may be displayed to indicate that particular search results are songs a record icon may be displayed to indicate that particular search results are album names and a person icon may be displayed to indicate that particular search results are artist names.

The display may also be configured to display the search results in a particular order that is dependent on the application program represented by the highlighted icon and or the database s in which the search results were found. More particularly the search module may provide the search results from the database s along with the desired ordering information to the processor which may transfer the search results to the display to be displayed in the order specified by the search module . For example the display may display search results from a contacts or phonebook database not shown in alphabetical order. In addition the display may display search results from the music database in an order based on the artist that performs the songs and or based on the corresponding album names for the songs. Also for search results from multiple ones of the databases the display may be configured to display the search results in an order such that search results found in the same database are grouped together. For example if a search string Paris is entered in the search field when the graphical icons corresponding to the messaging application and the camera application are highlighted the display may display a list of e mails from the messages database that include the string Paris prior to displaying a list of image files from the pictures database that include Paris in the filename. Also the search module may be configured to prioritize querying of the databases responsive to receiving a user selection and or specification indicating desired priorities associated with querying the databases via the user interface for example via a set up menu for the search function. As such the search module may be configured to query the database s associated with the application program s represented by the highlighted icon s and or display the search results based on user preferences.

Although illustrates an exemplary hardware software architecture that may be used in mobile terminals and or other electronic devices for providing a search function with a search scope that is limited based on navigation of a menu screen it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to such a configuration but is intended to encompass any configuration capable of carrying out operations described herein. For example although described primarily with reference to a main or standby menu screen it is to be understood that the menu screen displayed by the display may include menu screens within particular applications such as a menu screen within the music application that may include artist and or genre icons associated with sub databases of the music database . In addition although the memory is illustrated as separate from the processor the memory or portions thereof may be considered as a part of the processor . More generally while particular functionalities are shown in particular blocks by way of illustration functionalities of different blocks and or portions thereof may be combined divided and or eliminated. Moreover the functionality of the hardware software architecture of may be implemented as a single processor system or a multi processor system in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of devices and or systems discussed above with respect to may be written in a high level programming language such as Java C and or C for development convenience. In addition computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in other programming languages such as but not limited to interpreted languages. Some modules or routines may be written in assembly language or even micro code to enhance performance and or memory usage. It will be further appreciated that the functionality of any or all of the program modules may also be implemented using discrete hardware components one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or a programmed digital signal processor or microcontroller.

The present invention is described hereinafter with reference to flowchart and or block diagram illustrations of methods mobile terminals electronic devices data processing systems and or computer program products in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.

These flowchart and or block diagrams further illustrate exemplary operations for providing search functionality that is limited based on navigation of a menu screen in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagram illustrations may be implemented by computer program instructions and or hardware operations. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer a special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the function specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring now to a search field is displayed in a menu screen on a display of electronic device block . The menu screen includes a plurality of icons representing respective application programs that can be accessed via the menu screen. For example the menu screen may be a main menu and or a standby menu screen in a mobile phone. The search field may be displayed in the menu screen responsive to a user input or alternatively may be permanently displayed as part of the menu screen for example in a lower or upper portion of the menu screen so as not to interfere with the displayed graphical icons. Selection of at least one of the icons is visually indicated responsive to navigation of the menu screen block . For instance in a mobile phone a cursor may be moved using navigation keys to highlight one or more of the graphical icons displayed on the menu screen. In some embodiments the search field may be displayed in the menu screen after one or more of the graphical icons are highlighted.

Still referring to a search scope is limited to at least one database associated with an application program represented by the selected one of the icons block and the database s are searched using the limited search scope responsive to entry of a search string in the search field block . The search string may include one or more alphanumeric characters that define words names numbers and or portions thereof that may be associated with desired data. For example responsive to the entry of the search string Joa in the search field when a contacts icon is highlighted in a main menu screen of a mobile phone the scope of the search for data including the characters Joa may be limited to a contacts database associated with a contacts application program represented by the highlighted contacts icon. The limited search scope may also include sub databases that are accessible by the database associated with the application program represented by the highlighted icon. As such the database may be searched prior to executing the application program.

If matching data is found in the database associated with the application represented by the selected icon at least one search result including the search string is displayed block . For instance in the above example the search results Joan and Joaquin may be returned and displayed based on search of the contacts database. In some embodiments the search result s may be displayed in the menu screen itself i.e. prior to executing the application associated with the highlighted icon . Alternately the search result s may be displayed in a subsequent screen associated with the application program i.e. after executing the application program represented by the highlighted icon . The search results may also be displayed adjacent to icons respectively representing the database s in which the search results were found and or in an order based on the databases in which the search results were found. For example search results from a music database may be ordered based on artist or album title rather than song title while search results from a contacts database may be ordered alphabetically. Also search results from the contacts database may be grouped together and displayed with a higher priority than search results from the music database for example based on user definable preference settings. Accordingly navigation of a graphical menu may be used in conjunction with a search function to limit or narrow a scope of the search and thus may limit the search results in a natural and intuitive manner.

The flowchart of illustrates the architecture functionality and operations of embodiments of hardware and or software in electronic devices such as mobile terminals according to some embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block represents a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in other implementations the function s noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in . For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending on the functionality involved.

Referring to the envelope icon is highlighted responsive to user navigation of the main menu screen as indicated by cursor . For example a user of the mobile terminal may navigate the main menu screen by moving the cursor using the mobile terminal s keypad and or navigation keys to highlight different ones of the application program icons . The name of the application program i.e. Messages associated with the highlighted envelope icon is also displayed at an upper portion of the main menu screen . In addition a search string i.e. Fish is entered in the search field . Because the envelope icon is highlighted by the cursor a scope of the search for the entered search string Fish is limited to one or more databases associated with the messaging application represented by the highlighted envelope icon . Thus using the limited search scope a messages database such as the messages database of is queried to identify data that includes the search string Fish . However it is to be understood that sub databases that are accessible by the messages database such as e mail and or text message databases may also be included in the limited search scope. Thus the e mail and text messages sub databases may also be searched for the search string responsive to highlighting the envelope icon with the cursor .

Referring to a list of search results including the search string is displayed in the main menu screen . More particularly search results or hits that include the search string Fish are found in the messages database and are displayed in the main menu screen . The search results are displayed in a window that overlaps a portion of the main menu screen . As such the messages database associated with the messaging application represented by the envelope icon may be searched prior to and or without executing the messages application. As shown in the search results are displayed alphabetically by last name. However the order in which the search results are displayed may be altered to suit a user s preferences for example by selecting the wrench icon which represents a settings application with the cursor . Also the action soft key is updated to provide a function associated with the application program represented by the highlighted icon . More particularly the action soft key is changed to provide a view function associated with the messaging application. Accordingly responsive to selection of the action soft key the messaging application may be executed and the selected one s of the search results may be viewed using the messaging application.

Referring to a list of search results including the search string is displayed in the main menu screen . More particularly hits that include the search string Black are found in the music database and displayed in a window overlapping a portion of the main menu screen . In addition icons representing the database in which the search results were found are displayed along with the search results . As shown in the icons are pictorial representations of the categories associated with the search results . More particularly the musical note icon indicates that the adjacent search result is a song name. Likewise the record icon indicates that the adjacent search results are album names and the person icon indicates that the adjacent search results are artist names. Also the action soft key is updated to provide a play function associated with the music application program represented by the highlighted musical notes icon . Thus responsive to selection of the action soft key the music application may be launched and the selected one s of the search results may be played back by the music application.

Referring to a list of search results is including the search string is displayed in the main menu screen . More particularly hits that include the search string Ital are found in the pictures database and are displayed in a window overlapping at least a portion of the main menu screen . The search results are displayed as thumbnail representations of corresponding image files that include the search string Ital in their respective filenames. The search results are also displayed in alphabetical order based on the file names of the image files. In addition the action soft key is updated to provide a view function associated with the camera application program represented by the highlighted camera icon . Thus responsive to selection of the action soft key the camera application may be launched and one or more of the search results may be viewed using the camera application.

Accordingly some embodiments of the present invention may provide improved search functionality by narrowing a scope of a search based on navigation of a menu screen. More particularly in some embodiments a search field may be displayed in a menu screen of electronic device and the search scope may be limited to one or more databases associated with an application program that is represented by a highlighted or otherwise visually selected icon in the menu screen. Thus a search can be performed from the menu without entering a specific application program and search results may be limited in a natural and intuitive manner.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed exemplary embodiments of the invention. However many variations and modifications can be made to these embodiments without substantially departing from the principles of the present invention. Accordingly although specific terms are used they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being defined by the following claims.

