---

title: Metallization structure for high power microelectronic devices
abstract: A semiconductor device structure is disclosed that includes a wide-bandgap semiconductor portion selected from the group consisting of silicon carbide and the Group III nitrides. An interconnect structure is made to the semiconductor portion, and the interconnect structure includes at least two diffusion barrier layers alternating with two respective high electrical conductivity layers. The diffusion barrier layers have a coefficient of thermal expansion different from and lower than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the high electrical conductivity layers. The difference in the respective coefficients of thermal expansions are large enough to constrain the expansion of the high conductivity layers but less than a difference that would create a strain between adjacent layers that would exceed the bond strength between the layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09024327&OS=09024327&RS=09024327
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09024327
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
The present invention was developed at least in part under Air Force contract number 05 2 5507. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to interconnect metal structures for semiconductor devices with three or more terminals that operate at relatively high power. Examples include metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs formed in silicon carbide SiC high electron mobility transistors HEMTs formed in the Group III nitride material system and other such devices that operate at a nominal power dissipation of one watt per millimeter 1 W mm of gate periphery or greater or that experience thermal excursions of more than 150 C. under nominal operating conditions.

As generally well recognized in the semiconductor art the performance characteristics and capabilities or limitations of a semiconductor device are based upon the characteristics of the semiconductor material. Although silicon and gallium arsenide GaAs are used for a wide range of semiconductor electronic devices certain of their performance capabilities will be limited by their bandgap e.g. 1.12 electron volts eV at 300 K for Si and 1.42 eV for GaAs and by their physical properties e.g. melting point . Accordingly for higher power devices wide bandgap materials such as silicon carbide the Group III nitrides and diamond are becoming preferred.

From an electronic standpoint silicon carbide has a number of theoretical and practical advantages that make its use desirable in microelectronic devices. Silicon carbide has a wide bandgap 3.0 eV for alpha SiC at 300 K a high critical breakdown field approximately 2 mega volts per centimeter and a high thermal conductivity about five watts per centimeter Kelvin . Silicon carbide is also physically very hard. Silicon carbide has a high electron drift velocity excellent thermal stability and excellent radiation resistance or hardness. These advantages have been recognized and described thoroughly in the patent and non patent literature

The Group III nitride material system offers similar advantages including wide bandgaps e.g. 3.36 eV at 300 K for gallium nitride and 6.2 eV for AlN . Additionally the Group III nitrides form several binary ternary and tertiary compounds with bandgaps between 3.4 and 6.2 eV based upon the specific atomic fractions. As a result they provide the capability to form heterojunctions and related structures between Group III nitride materials. The GaN AlGaN heterostructure is particularly useful for high electron mobility transistors HEMTs .

Because such devices are most typically used in combination and in circuits they are typically connected to other devices using some form of conductive pathways interconnects . These interconnects often formed of metals within between and among semiconductor devices must be able to withstand the operating parameters most typically current power and heat temperature desired or needed from such devices.

As one example among many that are possible wide bandgap devices such as metal semiconductor field effect transistors and high electron mobility transistors are useful as MMIC microwave integrated circuits components that can produce increased power output at traditional radar frequencies e.g. 16.7 Gigahertz for Ku band radar including long pulse radar systems. In such systems however metal interconnect systems have been observed to begin to fail as the power density increases. The problems also arise relatively quickly particularly compared to the otherwise long life advantages of semiconductor electronics. For example such MESFETs and HEMTs operating at between about 8 and 10 watts per millimeter gate periphery have been observed to fail as early as 10 million cycles. Because the devices cycle at about one millisecond per cycle they will fail in a few hours.

In other applications such devices never need to operate at such power levels. Nevertheless the failure of high power devices in a relatively short time frame indicates that the same problem will eventually occur in lower power devices and in a similarly unacceptably short period of time.

One aspect of the problem arises from the use of several metals to form an interconnect. Conventional systems will use for example a layer of a diffusion barrier metal such as molybdenum adjacent to the semiconductor. A layer of a more electrically conductive material such as gold silver or aluminum is then layered onto the diffusion barrier metal. These conductive metals can however migrate between and among layers of adjacent material. This in turn causes problems such as undesired metallurgical reactions voids uneven interfaces and corrosion. As the name implies the diffusion barrier metal prevents the high electrical conductivity metal from reacting with the semiconductor in an undesired fashion.

Additionally sometimes the molybdenum layer or an alternative metal such as titanium will be included as an adhesion layer to help maintain the ohmic contact or interconnect in or to the device.

Because high power devices generate relatively high temperatures and high thermal cycles for example ranging over 150 C. the thermal effects on these metals and any other materials must be taken into consideration. As a result and because wider bandgap materials can operate at higher power than lower bandgap materials for devices of otherwise similar size and structure the thermal stresses on interconnect metals are greater in wide bandgap material devices than they are in silicon based or gallium arsenide based devices.

Expansion is of course one such thermal effect. The extent to which the material will expand depends upon the applied temperature and the coefficient of thermal expansion. As well understood in the art the coefficient of linear thermal expansion is the ratio of the change in length per degree K to the length at 273K. When considering expansion in three dimensions the coefficient of volume expansion is typically about three times the linear coefficient. Furthermore the value of the coefficient is temperature dependent.

In general semiconductor materials have relatively low coefficients of thermal expansion. Metals have higher coefficient of thermal expansion than semiconductors. Within metals higher electrical conductivity metals tend to have significantly higher coefficient of thermal expansion than do materials of lower electrical conductivity. Diffusion barrier properties tend to be associated with lower coefficients of thermal expansion.

In order to produce ohmic character adhesion a diffusion barrier and conductivity a metal interconnect system on a semiconductor will often include a layer for each purpose e.g. one layer for the ohmic contact a second layer of a different material for adhesion a third layer of yet another material to act as the diffusion barrier and the fourth layer of another material to provide high conductivity. As a result the interconnect will generally consist of three or four different materials with a relatively wide range of coefficients of thermal expansion. Thus as a high power wide bandgap device cycles over a given temperature range the thermal expansion stress tends to cause the layers to delaminate from one another. In particular the thermal effects create a shear stress sideways between layers as well as a principal Z direction stress across the layers. In turn the stress and other potential factors can lead to resistance increases film delamination passivation cracking and catastrophic device failure.

Because improved devices are reaching power levels never previously seen in devices of equivalent size and structure made from conventional materials the resulting delamination problems have not been observed. Thus to some extent these new problems are a result of success in the design and fabrication of higher power devices in wide bandgap materials.

Of course the theoretical power capabilities of a device become insignificant if in actual use the associated materials such as metal interconnects tend to fail at a relatively early stage.

Accordingly a need exists for metal interconnect systems that can withstand the thermal stresses generated by these higher performance devices.

In one aspect the invention is a semiconductor device structure that includes a wide bandgap semiconductor portion selected from the group consisting of silicon carbide and the Group III nitrides. An interconnect structure is made to the semiconductor portion with the interconnect structure including at least two diffusion barrier layers alternating with two respective high electrical conductivity layers. The diffusion barrier layers have a coefficient of thermal expansion different from and lower than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the high electrical conductivity layers. The difference in the respective coefficients of thermal expansions is large enough to constrain the expansion of the high conductivity layers but less than a difference that would create a strain between adjacent layers that would exceed the bond strength between the layers.

In another aspect the invention is a wide bandgap insulated gate field effect transistor IGFET . In this aspect the invention includes a first semiconductor portion selected from the group consisting of silicon carbide and the Group III nitrides and having a first conductivity type p or n . Respective source and drain portions are in the first semiconductor portion and have the opposite conductivity type from the first semiconductor portion. A gate insulator is on the first semiconductor portion between the source and drain portions and a gate contact is on the gate insulator. An interconnect structure is on at least one of the source the gate contact and the drain. The interconnect structure includes at least two diffusion barrier layers alternating with two respective high electrical conductivity layers. The diffusion barrier layers have a coefficient of thermal expansion different from and lower than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the high electrical conductivity layers and the difference in the respective coefficients of thermal expansions are large enough to constrain the expansion of the high conductivity layers but less than a difference that would create a strain between adjacent layers that would exceed the bond strength between the layers.

In yet another aspect the invention is a high electron mobility transistor that includes a layer of gallium nitride and a layer of aluminum gallium nitride on the gallium nitride layer and forming a heterojunction between the gallium nitride layer and the aluminum gallium nitride layer. Respective source and drain contacts are on the gallium nitride layer and a gate contact is on the aluminum gallium nitride layer. The transistor includes a metal interconnect structure to at least one of the source contact the drain contact and the gate contact. The interconnect structure includes at least two diffusion barrier layers alternating with two respective high electrical conductivity layers. The diffusion barrier layers have a coefficient of thermal expansion different from and lower than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the high electrical conductivity layers and the difference in the respective coefficients of thermal expansions are large enough to constrain the expansion of the high conductivity layers but less than a difference that would create a strain between adjacent layers that would exceed the bond strength between the layers.

The foregoing and other objects and advantages of the invention and the manner in which the same are accomplished will become clearer based on the followed detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The interconnect structure includes at least two diffusion barrier layers four are illustrated in alternating with at least two respective high conductivity layers three are shown in . The diffusion barrier layers have a coefficient of thermal expansion that is different from and lower than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the high electrical conductivity layers . The difference in the respective coefficients of thermal expansion is large enough to constrain the expansion of the high conductivity layers but less than a difference that would create a strain between adjacent layers that would exceed the bond strength between the layers.

The diffusion barrier layers are selected from materials including alloys having lower coefficient of thermal expansion but better diffusion barrier properties. As known to those in the semiconductor arts several high conductivity metals are also reactive with or migrate readily within certain semiconductor materials and thus can react with or migrate into semiconductor layers and undesirably modify the operating characteristics of a device. In exemplary embodiments the diffusion barrier layers are selected from metals and alloys such as platinum tungsten and titanium tungsten TiW .

With the diffusion barrier layers in place the high electrical conductivity layers can be selected for their conductivity properties with gold and aluminum being exemplary. As noted above the adhesion layers are selected for their properly reactive properties and exemplary choices are titanium and chrome. In each case the layers serving the respective purpose can be the same or different from one another e.g. all of the diffusion barrier layers can be formed of the same material. Alternatively different materials can be used for any one or more of the diffusion barrier layers provided that the film geometry is such that residual and thermo mechanical strain of the composite structure is sufficiently low so as to maintain the integrity of the structure in the desired application. The same possibility applies to the high electrical conductivity layers and the adhesion layers.

Table 1 lists several representative metals and their coefficient of thermal expansion CTE expressed in units of 106 K 1

Other materials can be selected for these different layers provided that they have the capability to serve the intended function and do not adversely affect the other layers or the underlying semiconductor device. If selected on the basis of coefficient of thermal expansion the high electrical conductivity layer should have a coefficient of thermal expansion that is greater than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the diffusion barrier layer by a factor multiplication of between about 1.5 and 2. Stated differently the coefficient of thermal expansion of the high electrical conductivity layers should be between about one and a half and double the coefficient of thermal expansion of the diffusion barrier layers.

The alternating diffusion barrier layers and high conductivity layers taken with or without the adhesion layers will typically have a thickness of between about 0.1 and 10 microns m . With respect to thickness the invention provides the opportunity to use multiple thinner layers to achieve the same and in most cases better performance as the conventional two or three layer adhesion diffusion barrier conductivity structure. Using a plurality of thin layers reduces the stress between layers because thermo mechanical strain parallel to the layers is effectively reduced as the total interfacial area between layers of the constraining material and more expansive material is increased. Furthermore volume expansion in the direction normal to the layers is decreased due to the greater influence of the constraining stress field in the middle of the more expansive layer because it is in closer proximity to the less expansive layer as the thickness of the more expansive layer is reduced.

The invention can accordingly be used in various proportions and is not limited to particular absolute sizes. It has been observed that a diffusion barrier works best when its thickness is about five times the average grain size. The manner in which the films are deposited can help define the grain structure and thus the grain structure can define different diffusion barrier layer properties.

An adhesion layer will typically have a thickness about the same as the diffusion barrier i.e. a sufficient amount to join the respective desired layers with no need for any thickness beyond that. The thickness of the high conductivity layers can be based upon the expected current.

In an exemplary embodiment when the semiconductor portion is silicon carbide the diffusion barrier layers are platinum the high conductivity layers are gold and the adhesion layers are titanium.

In an exemplary but not limiting embodiment the structure of will include a titanium Ti adhesion layer about 200 nanometers thick. The diffusion barrier layers will be about 50 nanometers thick and will be formed of platinum Pt tungsten W molybdenum Mo and conductive alloys or nitrides of these materials. If not conductive the nitrides will create an undesired capacitor structure . The high conductivity layers are typically formed of about 1.5 microns of gold Au .

The term device is used broadly herein and it will be understood that it can be any appropriate device with examples being junction diodes insulated gate field effect transistors IGFETs metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs and high electron mobility transistors HEMTs .

The basic structure and operation of such devices is generally well understood in the art. Exemplary references include Sze PSD Second Edition 1981 John Wiley Sons Inc. Sze MSDP 1998 John Wiley Sons Inc. and Z PTSCD Electronic Materials Information Service 2002 .

Respective source and drain portions are in the first semiconductor portion and have the opposite conductivity type from the first semiconductor portion . A gate insulator is on the first semiconductor portion between the source and drain portions and defines the channel . When an oxide typically silicon dioxide is used as the gate insulator the transistor is generally referred to as a metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET .

A gate contact typically formed of metal or a conductive material such as polysilicon is on the gate insulator for applying voltage to the gate and controlling the current between the source and drain in a well understood manner. In many circumstances the transistor is isolated from neighboring devices by portions of a field oxide .

An interconnect structure as described with respect to is made to at least one of the source the gate contact or the drain . illustrates the interconnect structure on each of these items. As in the description of the interconnect structure will include at least two diffusion barrier layers alternating with two respective high electrical conductivity layers. The diffusion barrier layers have a coefficient of thermal expansion different from and lower than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the high electrical conductivity layers with the difference between the coefficient of thermal expansion being large enough to constrain the expansion of the diffusion barrier layers but less the difference that would create a strain between adjacent layers that would exceed the bond strength between the layers. In many circumstances one or more adhesion layers in will also be present.

As also illustrated in the transistor will typically include ohmic contacts to the source and to the drain and the interconnect structure will be on the ohmic contact or .

When the semiconductor portions comprise silicon carbide the diffusion barrier layers will typically comprise tungsten TiW or nickel and the high conductivity layers will comprise gold or aluminum.

In this embodiment the transistor includes a layer of gallium nitride which in many circumstances is supported by a substrate typically formed of silicon carbide or sapphire. In either case a buffer layer typically of aluminum gallium nitride is used to provide an appropriate transition between the substrate and the gallium nitride layer given the differences in the unit cell dimensions between and among these materials.

The aluminum gallium nitride layer is on the gallium nitride layer and has a wider bandgap than gallium nitride. As set forth in the background the bandgap of gallium nitride at room temperature is about 3.4 eV while that of aluminum nitride is 6.2 eV. Accordingly the bandgap of the layer will depend upon the atomic fraction x of aluminum and gallium in the composition AlGaN.

As is generally well understood in the art the wider bandgap AlGaN layer separates a gate electrode from the gallium nitride layer . Above the threshold voltage a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG schematically indicated by the thin layer is formed at the heterointerface between the wider bandgap AlGaN layer and the narrower bandgap GaN layer or channel . The two dimensional electron gas carries the drain source current. The high mobility of the electron gas provides the capacity for the devices to operate at higher frequencies than more conventional transistors.

A metal interconnect structure is made to at least one two or all of the source contact the drain contact or the gate contact . As in the previous embodiments the interconnect structure includes at least two diffusion barrier layers and potentially more than two alternating with at least two respective high electrical conductivity layers. The diffusion barrier layers have a coefficient of thermal expansion different from and lower than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the high electrical conductivity layers and the differences in the respective coefficients of thermal expansions are large enough to constrain the expansion of the high conductivity layers but is less than the difference that would create a strain between adjacent layers that would exceed the bond strength between the layers. As in the previous embodiments the interconnect structure can include an adhesive layer adjacent at least one of the diffusion barrier layers.

In a transistors such as illustrated at in the gallium nitride layer can be semi insulating which will typically mean that it has a resistivity of at least about 5000 ohm centimeters and potentially more.

Devices formed according to the present invention have been operated at 10 watts per millimeter based on a nominal design of four watts per millimeter for several hundred hours without failure.

The n type includes a silicon carbide substrate which is typically although not exclusively semi insulating. In the illustrated diode a wide bandgap p type epitaxial layer is on the substrate and a wide bandgap n type epitaxial layer is on the p type layer . The n type epitaxial layer optionally includes more heavily doped wells and . A gate contact structure broadly designated at is on the n type epitaxial layer . The gate contact which in a MESFET is a Schottky contact can be formed of several layers of metal. In the illustrated embodiment these layers can include for example a first gate layer formed of a metal such as chromium that has the desired Schottky characteristics a barrier layer of an appropriate metal such as platinum and a highly conductive layer formed of a metal such as gold. The source and the drain include the ohmic contacts and respectively and are typically formed of nickel or nickel silicide. The ohmic contacts and are also typically include a metal overlayer and respectively which typically include layers of titanium platinum and gold.

A passivation layer is typically included and can be formed by the method described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 972 801 the contents of which are incorporated entirely herein by reference.

The metallization structure according to the invention can then be used to contact any one or more of the source gate or drain. illustrates the metallization structure at with portions on each of the source the gate and the drain.

Although the invention has been described with respect to high power transistors it can offer advantages in any electronic device that dissipates a high power density or that operates under cyclical thermal stresses or a combination of high power density and thermal stress. Thus in addition to microwave and power transistors the invention can be incorporated with optoelectronic devices passive electronic and electromechanical devices and photonic devices. In addition to long pulse radar systems the invention offers particular advantages in switching power supplies electronic warfare systems microwave communication systems traditional and alternative energy power generation and electric vehicle propulsion systems.

In the drawings and specification there has been set forth a preferred embodiment of the invention and although specific terms have been employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being defined in the claims.

