---

title: Apparatus and method using near field communications
abstract: A near field communications enabled mobile communication is used to provide or receive information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07962369&OS=07962369&RS=07962369
owner: 
number: 07962369
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20071001
---
This application is a non provisional utility application of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 848 058 filed on Sep. 29 2006 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to wireless electronic data transfer and to circuits and methods for secure wireless information transactions.

A Smartcard is a plastic card with an embedded integrated circuit computer chip i.e. a piece of thin semiconductor material such as silicon that has been chemically processed and etched with a specific set of electrical characteristics such as circuits storage and logic elements of smartcard elements. When coupled with a near field communication reader this combination has the processing power to perform the complex operations previously requiring a personal computer or other large logic device.

In the form of a credit card a Smartcard contains a built in semi conductor chip. The chip memory stores payment information e.g. account information similar to a magnetic stripe on the back of a credit card but may also include additional information such as issuer defined controls e.g. online authorization frequency requirements floor limits credit limit etc. . Many smartcards issued in the United States will also include an embossed sixteen digit account number in the magnetic stripe. The non chip features allow the smartcard to be used at storefronts that are not equipped to interact with smart chips. Smartcards can also be contactless or wireless meaning the smartcard transfers data to and from another near field communication enabled device via a built in antenna without physically touching the other near field communication enabled device. A smartcard is an example of a device that communicates in communication protocols and frequencies now commonly known as near field communications NFC . Thus as is known in the art communications between electronic devices using smartcard protocols and frequencies are NFC.

Smartcard chips can be categorized as either intelligent chips or memory chips. Intelligent chips i.e. smart chips contain a microprocessor that has various read write capabilities e.g. EEPROM and ROM space and the smart chip interacts with a NFC reader using software applications stored on the chip. Conversely some Smartcard memory chips lack processing capability and do not manage files dynamically. Generally the Smartcards currently issued by bank card issuers in the United States for payment contain intelligent chips and have processing power. For example a Smartcard could contain an access control application where the smart chip authenticates the cardholder and provides the user with access to a previously locked door or computer network. Information on the smart chip is read from a NFC reader and the smart chip is designed so that some of the information stored in the smart chip cannot be changed.

A smart chip operates similarly to a personal computer e.g. it can control the execution of the applications and it can store information. A smart chip can also lack processing power be dumb card. The primary difference with a smart chip is that the operating system is programmed into the ROM portion of the chip at the time of the manufacture and generally cannot be altered. There exist several different smartcard operating systems. Between the operating system and the application is an application programming interface API the message management process through which the operating system and the applications interact. The operating system and breadth of applications on the smart chip are not necessarily important to the merchant and card user as long as it is an open platform that can interface with a NFC reader and provide payment information to the merchant s POS terminal. As is conventionally known a NFC reader can read i.e. receive NFC signals and information from other NFC sources write i.e. provide NFC signals and information to other NFC sources and can emulate a card e.g. act as a NFC tag.

Software applications on the chip are designed for security and to process transactions. Additional applications or information may be added by the issuing bank or potentially the card holder such as a loyalty program a stored value application an e ticket program or a secure access verification program. When the Smartcard is used to transact payment a point of sale POS device often requires a PIN to authenticate the user. Conventional debit and ATM networks authenticate the PIN entered by the cardholder using a back end network e.g. the POS device contacts directly or indirectly the financial network of the user that corresponds to the account number stored in the smartcard. The financial network authenticates the PIN number by comparing the account number and the PIN number associated with the account number to the PIN number entered by the user since the PIN is not stored on debit ATM cards. Unlike an ATM transaction in a NFC transaction a PIN entered by the user is authenticated by the security system resident on the chip which examines secure information stored in the chip and compares it to the entered PIN number.

According to ISO standards a smartcard chip operates in one of two modes either in contactless mode or in contact mode. In contactless mode a smartcard chip is enabled to send and receive wireless NFC communications e.g. radio signals through a first data channel or data channel device . In contact mode a smartcard chip is enabled to send and receive direct contact communications e.g. electrically coupled signals through a second data channel. Generally a smartcard is pre programmed to operate in a contactless mode and contact mode in conformance with ISO standards.

For example when using a Smartcard to purchase goods the consumer will hand their Smartcard to a merchant and the Smartcard is inserted into a NFC reader. The chip contains certain contact points that line up with the NFC reader to transfer information. For cards that have both a magnetic stripe and the chip the NFC reader may be programmed to utilize the chip technology over the magnetic stripe since the chip is more secure. If the Smartcard contains both credit and debit applications the cardholder must first select a payment method. At this point the smart chip and record reader communicate to determine several things such as whether the terminal has on line authorization capabilities whether the card is authentic and processing restrictions e.g. expiration date.

The card communicates to the reader the type of risk management checks that the card issuer wants to be performed such as the floor limit random online processing and a velocity check that determines whether an on line authorization is necessary. Next the POS terminal requests authorization via the back end processing network that connects to the seller s financial institution home office or bank if necessary just like magnetic stripe card. Upon approval the NFC reader and the smart chip may exchange additional information such as reward points or e coupons for the next purchase. This information is then stored on the smart chip for future use or could be used for the current transaction.

In contactless or wireless Smartcard applications information contained on the Smartcard is transferred in one direction. Information is provided to the NFC reader when the Smartcard is placed in close proximity to the NFC reader. For example a Mobil Speedpass smartcard is waved near a gas pump containing a reader to permit the user to purchase gasoline from the pump. When the Speedpass is placed near the gas pump the user s account information is wirelessly provided to a reader in the gas pump. The account information is then used for approval of and billing of a gasoline purchase that will follow.

In some applications information is transferred between the Smartcard and the NFC reader. For example commuters may use a Smartcard to pay for subway or bus transit where fares are conventionally paid at the beginning or conclusion of the metro transit. The Smartcard stores an electronic cash value on the card. When entering the metro the Smartcard is placed near the NFC reader on a turnstile and the reader receives payment information from the Smartcard. The user provides no additional information to the Smartcard or NFC reader and does not take any further action affirming the transaction. If the Smartcard has at least a predetermined amount of electronic cash then the smart reader provides a signal to the Smartcard indicating the metro entry point and provides a signal to the turnstile permitting the user to enter. If there are not sufficient electronic funds then the NFC reader does not provide a signal to the turnstile and therefore the user is not permitted to enter. To exit the metro at the end of the transit the user places the Smartcard near the NFC reader of a turnstile. The NFC reader determines the fare by reading the entry point from the Smartcard and deducts the fare from the value of the electronic cash stored on the card. The NFC reader provides a signal to the turnstile permitting the user to exit.

As described above a contactless Smartcard can be used for information transactions e.g. subway or bus fare transit . However there is little to ensure that the person using the contactless Smartcard is the same person who owns the Smartcard. As Smartcards are typically pre programmed to operate in a contactless mode the information on a smartcard is available to be read by any device capable of reading smartcards For example a valid subway card or Speedpass may be used by anyone in possession of the transit card Speedpass respectively even though the possessor of the transit card Speedpass may not be the owner of the transit card Speedpass. Therefore it would be desirable to have a contactless system that provides an increased level of security for the information contained within the Smartcard.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and it is to be understood that structural logical or procedural changes may be made to the specific embodiments disclosed without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Although not intended to be limiting a smartlink smartlink defines NFC capable devices and the ecosystem and infrastructure the NFC enabled device interacts with system in a preferred embodiment is a system that includes a smartlink server and smartlink capable device. A smartlink server is a computer or processing system that maintains information about users of smartlink capable devices. This information may include a user s account information device information and the like. The smartlink server is capable of communicating with a user s smartlink capable device through cellular communications as is conventionally known. The smartlink server is capable of communicating with other computer servers of seller s banks and other institutions through conventional means. A smartlink capable device can be any such embodiment or aspect described below.

The present invention provides methods and apparatus for wireless transactions with increased security as well as near field communication transactions using mobile communication devices. In exemplary embodiments a mobile communication device facilitates information and service delivery and various applications are provided using the methods to perform electronic transactions using near field communications.

The processing chip e.g. smartchip provides processing and memory storage including but not limited to data conversion processing. One feature of processing chip is that it converts data between radio waves and digital analog signals. Typically communication between contactless NFC devices utilizes radio waves in the form of digital packets. In a preferred use processing chip converts data received in the form of radio waves by one of the antennae to data in the form of digital analog signals that are then provided to the mobile communication device through communication path and connection pin . Further the processing chip converts from data in the form of digital analog signals that are received from the mobile communication device through communication path and connection pin to the form of radio waves provided to the antennae that will be transmitted by one of the antennae . It is known with those with skill in the art how a processing chip converts data between the form of radio waves and the form of the digital analog signals utilized by a mobile communication device or other device incorporating a NFC reader. For example a mobile communication device through the smartlink module can exchange information with a POS device not shown having a NFC reader e.g. a NFC reader. In a preferred embodiment the processing chip is similar to a smartcard chip in a conventional smartcard or another similar NFC device that conforms with ISO standards. Although generally described with processing chip performing processing steps the use is not intended to be so limited. Processing may also be performed for example by a mobile communication device coupled to the processing chip or by a server.

The processing chip is preferably preprogrammed with an initialization program which is described more fully below. Further the processing chip in each smartlink module is pre programmed with a unique identification code which is coded on each processing chip . In a preferred use the hard coding of the identification code occurs during manufacture. In other aspects the hard coding of the identification code occurs after the manufacture of the chip.

Antennas provide wireless communication with another device capable of sending and or receiving NFC signals. In a preferred use one of antennas is used for very short range communications where the distance between the antennae and an other NFC transmitter receiver e.g. a POS unit contactless module is only a few inches. The other of the antennae is used for longer range communications where the distance between the antennae and the other transmitter receiver is several feet. In a preferred use a smartlink module will use conventional contactless NFC radio frequencies as established by ISO standards 125 kHz and 13.56 Mhz for respectively transmitting to and receiving signals from other contactless NFC devices. Although the use is described with a number of antennae used in particular manner and utilizing certain frequencies the use is not intended to be so limited it is anticipated that any antenna configuration at any frequency can be employed.

Communication connection pins provide electronic coupling between the smartlink module and a mobile communication device. The communication connection pins are adapted to couple with communication pins or the port of a mobile communication device . The number and location of communication connection pins is dependent on the particular mobile communication device that the smartlink module is intended on being coupled with. The communication connection pins are electronically coupled to the chip by communication paths respectively. Although shown with two communication paths the number of communication paths can vary.

Mounting clips provide physical coupling between the smartlink module and a mobile communication device as seen in . The number and location of mounting clips is dependent on the particular mobile communication device that the smartlink module is intended on being coupled to. Although described as clips the use is not intended to be so limited and may incorporate any appropriate method of fastening that couples the smartlink module to a mobile communication device .

The housing of a smartlink module in a preferred use is one inch wide by one quarter of an inch tall by one quarter of an inch deep. However the actual dimensions of the housing can vary. The housing can be constructed of various materials however in a preferred use the housing is constructed from plastic. When a user requests a smartlink module for use with the user s mobile communication device the user indicates the make and model of the user s mobile communication device to a smartlink module provider e.g. a supplier retailer wholesaler financial institution . The user is provided with a smartlink module with a housing adapted to the particular make and model of mobile communication device . Further the number and location of communication connection pins the connection clips and communication paths is dependant to the mobile communication device . In another aspect the smartlink module is universally adaptable.

The mobile communication device controls the operation of the processing chip . The mobile communication device provides a signal to the processing chip indicating that the processing chip should be operating in either contactless or contact mode. In contactless mode the processing chip is enabled to send and or receive wireless signals preferably pursuant to NFC protocols as is known in the art. In contact mode the processing chip is enabled to send and or receive direct electrically coupled signals. In a preferred use a mobile communication device controls the processing chip through the use of an application program that resides on the mobile communication device . For example after the mobile communication device is initialized as described below a Secure transfer program resides on the mobile communication device . The Secure transfer program resides as an executing process in the background of programs executing on the mobile communication device as a background process until activated for a transaction process at which time the Secure transfer program resides in the foreground. When a transaction process is completed the Secure transfer program again resides as a background process.

To use the smartlink module with a mobile communication device requires that the smartlink module and mobile communication device combination first be initialized. When the smartlink module is preferably provided to a user an initialization program resides in the chip . Alternatively for example a user can download the initialization program through the mobile communication device via the cellular link by dialing a designated telephone number and then receiving an initialization application downloaded to the mobile communication device. Alternatively a user may link a mobile communication device to another source that provides access to an initialization application.

Initialization occurs a first time that a smartlink module is coupled to the mobile communication device and the mobile communication device is subsequently activated. For example when the smartlink module is first coupled and the mobile communication device is activated an initialization program within the processing chip of the smartlink module is activated. The initialization program provides the processor of the mobile communication device with an application from the smartlink module that generally includes two pieces of information the address of the location from which to download information e.g. a phone number to call a link or server connected to a location and information on how to access a cellularly connected or internet connected server located at a unique mobile IP address.

The second piece of information is the unique identification of the smartlink module and possibly the user s financial transaction identification e.g. a bank account number or credit card number of the user. The initialization program on the mobile communication device initiates a call to the user s financial institution transaction company e.g. the bank or credit card company that issued the smartlink module or an institution that will be financially responsible for payments. The mobile communication device provides the bank the two pieces of information as well as the unique identification of the mobile communication device e.g. the Electronic serial number. The mobile communication device receives from the bank several pieces of data including for example the user s name address phone and other information about the user which are stored in the mobile communication device . The bank also provides to the mobile communication device an application e.g. a secure transfer program that resides in the mobile communication device and enables the use of the smartlink module with the mobile communication device as described in greater detail below.

The initialization program running on the mobile communication device prompts the user for a PIN number that is stored within the mobile communication device . The PIN number may also be provided to the bank and also stored at the bank. The PIN number is for example a series of at least four alphanumeric characters. The PIN number helps prevent undesirable access to the user s information stored in the mobile communication device . In another aspect the initialization continues to enable additional features. A user s PIN information e.g. password is different from said user s personal information e.g. financial account information credit card .

During initialization of the smartlink module and mobile communication device identifying information of the mobile communication device e.g. the ESN or manufacturer serial number is stored in the smartlink module . The identifying information of the mobile communication device can be supplied in many ways including for instance from the financial institution from the user during initial application for a smartlink or subsequently when accessed by the application. Also during initialization identifying information of the smartlink module e.g. the smartlink module identification code is stored in the mobile communication device . In a preferred use this identifying information stored in the mobile communication device and smartlink module cannot be deleted or modified after it is first stored.

The mobile communication device also requires an application program for a mobile communications device to operate the smartlink module . In a preferred use an application program is loaded into the mobile communication device through a cellular connection and then stored within the mobile communication device. For example during initialization a Secure transfer program is downloaded into the mobile communication device . Preferably after the Secure transfer program is downloaded to the mobile communication device the program begins execution as a back ground.

After the initialization successfully occurs and during subsequent use of the mobile communication device the smartlink module is mated to the mobile communication device . A program in the smartlink module compares the identifying information of the mobile communication device currently coupled to the smartlink module to the stored identifying information of the mobile communication device . The smartlink module is enabled to send and receive signals only if the current mobile communication device identifying information corresponds to the stored mobile communication device identifying information. Similarly during subsequent use of the mobile communication device a Secure transfer program in the mobile communication device compares the identifying information of the smartlink module currently coupled to the mobile communication device to the stored identifying information of the smartlink module . The mobile communication device is enabled to send and receive signals to the smartlink module only if the current smartlink module identifying information corresponds to the stored smartlink module identifying information. In a preferred use the respective programs that compare the identification numbers are part of the circuitry of the smartlink module and mobile communication device respectively.

As seen in a smartlink module is coupled to a mobile communication device . A POS transaction device e.g. a credit card reader or a cash register is coupled to a NFC enabled radio transmitter receiver device e.g. a contactless NFC receiver transmitter. The device provides communication between the smartlink module of the mobile communication device and the POS transaction device . The POS transaction device provides data to the radio device the radio device provides the data in the form of radio transmissions to the smartlink module . The smartlink module provides radio transmissions to the radio device the transmissions received by the radio device are converted by the radio device into a form recognizable by the POS device and provided to the POS device .

In the following process the operation of the processing chip converting data from to radio waves to digital analog electrical signals takes place in the background of process although no specific process segment is specifically mentioned. as show in 

In segment S the secure transfer program waits for a signal from a mobile communication device by the user. It is assumed that before the process begins the secure transfer program is running as a process in the mobile communication device . The precursor steps to segment S are that the user begins to purchase goods in a conventional manner. The goods are processed by the sales person at their register. When the processing of goods is complete e.g. all the goods have been scanned the items are totaled. The sales person then prompts the user for the method of payment. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the user performs a key sequence on a mobile communication device coupled with the smartlink module appropriate to activate the smart transfer program. Process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program recognizes the key sequence and the secure transfer program become active and executes as a foreground process in the mobile communication device. Process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program prompts the user for his PIN number. The process continues to segment S. When the user enters his PIN number. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program compares the PIN number entered against the PIN number stored in the mobile communication device. If the comparison indicates that the PIN number matches then process proceeds to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program of the mobile communication device provides a control signal to the coupled smartlink module to enable contactless mode. With the smartlink module in contactless mode the smartlink module is enabled to transmit e.g. provide information stored in the smartlink module . The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the user places the mobile communication device near the seller s NFC reader associated with the seller s POS device . The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the seller s NFC reader receives information transmitted from the user s smartlink module . The process continues to segment S.

In segment S using the information received from the smartlink module the seller s device provides that information to the seller s financial institution server and traditional processing POS transaction processing begins as is conventionally known . The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the system tests whether the transaction has been approved by the buyer s financial institution server . The process continues to segment S.

In segment S in another aspect the buyer s and or seller s financial institution server provides an electronic receipt to the user s mobile communication device . The receipt is preferably provided in the form of a digital communication e.g. SMS that is stored in the mobile communication device . Alternatively the user can pre define the option where a digital receipt is sent via email to an email account of the user with the possibility of automatically synchronizing the information with any standard accounting software. Alternatively the seller s financial institution server communicates with the user s financial institution server and the user s financial institution server sends an SMS to the mobile communication device . The process then continues to segment S.

In segment S the transaction is identified by the system as being complete and the secure transfer program stops running as a process in the foreground of processes in the mobile communication device and begins running as a background process. The secure transfer program awaits another signal indicating the start of another transaction. In another aspect of the use the secure transfer program ceases execution.

Thus information stored in the smartlink module is maintained more securely as the module is only in contactless mode for a short amount of time thereby minimizing the amount of time that a NFC reader other than the intended reader can potentially access the information stored on the smartlink module. Further the smartlink module is in contactless mode only after a user has provided a correct password.

Alternatively the processing chip and or one or both antennae of the smartlink module are located partially or fully within the housing of a mobile communication device and additionally may not be housed in a housing . Alternatively one or both antennae are omitted and the smartlink module utilizes either of the antennae of coupled mobile communication device or a different antennae connected to the processing chip . Alternatively a processing chip is incorporated as part of the circuitry of a mobile communication device or the processing chip may be separate but connected to the mobile communication device for communications purposes. In still another use the smartlink device is coupled to a mobile communication device port where the port permits communication with the mobile communication device . Further the port is at least partially within the housing of the mobile communication device . For example the port is a spring board in a Handspring device.

Alternatively the processing chip is disposed in a non cellular communication device NECK device i.e. device that does not have a cellular connection. Alternatively the NECK device operates differently from the operation of the exemplary use described with reference to FIGS. in that in this aspect the secure transfer program does not receive a transaction confirmation signal from the user s or seller s bank. The NECK device provides financial transaction information to the POS device through NFC reader and the POS device initiates the conventional back end processing of financial transactions. The POS device may provide a transaction confirmation signal to the NECK device when the transaction is successful. The operation of the confirmation process would be similar to that as described with reference to however the NECK device would not receive a signal e.g. an SMS signal providing a receipt for the transaction Segment S .

Smartlink module includes a translation circuit . Translation circuit facilitates communication between a mobile communication device and processor chip . The translation circuit is a core logic circuit Although off the shelf core circuit can be used ASICs can also be utilized. With the use of the translation circuit the mobile communication device can write data to and read data from the smartlink module . In the use described above a user s personal data is stored in the smartlink module . In this use the secure transfer program of the mobile communication device provides data to the smartlink module . The secure transfer program of the mobile communication device reads data from the smartlink module . In a preferable use of this embodiment the mobile communication device provides a user s personal information to the smartlink module shortly before it is needed for use i.e. before the smartlink module provides the information. Preferably shortly after the personal information is provided the information is removed e.g. deleted from the smartlink module. Since a user s personal information is only temporarily stored in the smartlink module the user s personal information is more securely stored by remaining most of the time only in the mobile communication device . Additionally since a user s data is only temporarily maintained in the smartlink module the need to securely maintain the smartlink module is decreased. Therefore the smartlink module need not always have its contactless mode be disabled to provide additional safeguards for a user s information.

Additionally since the secure transfer program can write selected information to the smartlink module the secure transfer program and or the user can choose what information is provided to the smartlink module . For example for a financial transaction a user may have several different financial accounts that he has stored information in the mobile communication device . Therefore when making a purchase he may choose which financial account he would prefer to make his payment with e.g. American Express or VISA. Additionally in the initialization process which is similar to that described above with reference to a previous use the smartlink module is not coded with a user s account information.

As part of the operation of the mobile communication device coupled with the smartlink module the processing chip is in conformance with the ISO standards which does not permit a Smartcard chip to operate in both contactless mode and contact mode at the same time. Consequently to transfer information from the mobile communication device to the smartlink module when the smartlink module is in contact mode the secure transfer program provides information to the smartlink module . After the secure transfer program provides a signal to the smartlink module enabling the smartlink module to operate in contactless mode the information recently provided by the secure transfer program is able to be read by a third party NFC reader if within appropriate proximity. 

In segment S the secure transfer program awaits a signal from a device or from the mobile communication device as initiated by the user. The precursor steps are that the customer begins to purchase goods in a conventional manner. The goods are processed by the sales person at their register. When the processing of goods is complete e.g. all the goods have been scanned the items are totaled. The sales person then prompts the user for the method of payment. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the mobile communication device with the coupled smartlink module is placed near the device . The device transmits a signal that can be received and recognized by the mobile communication device and smartlink module combination. The transmitted signal may be for example the total purchase price of the goods. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program awaits a signal from the device . When a signal is received from the device then the process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program recognizes the signal from the device and sends a handshaking signal back to the device . The device then sends a signal to the secure transfer program for additional information. For example the signal may indicate the purchase price and then the mobile communication device displays the purchase price of the goods. The secure transfer program then prompts the user to see if the user agrees with the purchase price. The process continues to segment S. Alternatively in some cases all the POS can do is simply send a command to the smartlink to give it information and that it is a proper and certified POS and then receive the encrypted or unencrypted information.

In segment S the secure transfer program requests additional information from the user. If the user agrees to the purchase price as displayed by the register of the seller the secure transfer program requests the user input her his unique PIN number. If the user agrees and enters the appropriate PIN number then the secure transfer program extracts the secure financial data information e.g. the credit card number and associated transaction information that is stored in the mobile communication device or on the smartlink module . In either process the mobile communication device can prevent the smartlink module from communicating or sending information. The secure transfer program accesses the user s information and provides it to the processing chip of the smartlink module . The secure transfer program enables contactless operating mode and the processing chip converts that information received from the secure transfer program into a radio frequency and transmits it through its associated antennae one of . The user s secure financial data information stored in the mobile communication device is not provided without a valid PIN number. The mobile communication device and smartlink module provide the user s secure financial data information to the device . The process continues to segment S.

In segment S data is received from the mobile communication device and smartlink module by the device . The device provides the user s financial data information to the POS device and the transaction approval continues in a conventional manner. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S if the transaction has been approved by the seller s financial institution the POS system sends a signal to the smartlink module requesting confirmation. The smartlink module receives the signal from the POS system converts it from a radio signal to a digital signal and provides that signal to the mobile communication device . Assuming that the secure transfer program received the converted signal the user is then requested to confirm the amount of purchase in the user interface of the mobile communication device . In an other aspect the user taps places the NFC enabled mobile communication device within the proximity of a NFC device close enough to permit the exchange of information between the mobile communication device and the NFC device the mobile communication device and that completes the process. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the user is prompted to agree and confirm the purchase on mobile communication device . If the user agrees then the process continues to segment S. If the user does not agree the process continues to segment S.

In segment S the user has declined the purchase and the order is cancelled. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program receives a digital receipt from device that is stored in the mobile communication device . In another aspect the seller s financial institution sends an SMS to the mobile communication device providing a digital receipt. In yet another aspect the user receives a paper receipt from the sales person. Alternatively the user can pre define the option where a digital receipt is sent via email to an email account of the user with the possibility of automatically synchronizing the information with any standard accounting software. In another aspect of this embodiment the seller s financial institution server communicates with the user s financial institution server and the user s financial institution server sends an SMS to the mobile communication device . The financial institution or credit card company or some other third party whoever is doing the transaction in the back end and or the seller has the ability to send a confirmation message generally in the form of a digital receipt.

In segment S the transaction is complete and the secure transfer program becomes a passive background process. Alternatively the secure transfer program shuts off and waits for the user to activate the smartlink via the mobile communication device to begin communications with the reader.

Thus at the end of the exemplary process depicted in a user has more securely provided his personal information needed for a financial transaction by only having the information stored in the smartlink module for a short period of time thereby minimizing the amount of time that a NFC reader other than the intended reader can access the information stored on the smartlink module.

Alternatively a processing chip as shown in and antennae of a smartlink are located within the housing of a mobile communication device. In this enablement the antennae of the smartlink may be fully or partially within the housing of the mobile communication device. The antennae of the smartlink module may also be the antennae of the phone or different antennae connected to the processing chip . This use differs from the prior use in that the chipset of the smartlink module is incorporated as part of the circuitry of the mobile communication device or is separate but connected to the mobile communication device for communications purposes. For example the chipset is coupled to the mobile communication device circuit board. Further an antenna of the smartlink is coupled to the mobile communication device circuit board and is used for the smartlink transactions. In another aspect the smartlink device is coupled to a mobile communication device port where the port permits communication with the mobile communication device. Further the port is at least partially within the housing of the mobile communication device. For example the port is the spring board in a Handspring device.

Alternatively a mobile communication device performs the functionality of a smartlink module as described above in reference to either smartlink module or whereby the mobile communication device can function as a radio reader providing and receiving radio signals. In exemplary system the radio signals provided by the mobile communication device are NFC compatible signals. depicts a partial cut away view of a mobile communication device . The mobile communication device includes a radio conversion circuit and antennae .

The conversion circuit is electronically coupled to a communication bus or processor of the mobile communication device through communication paths . Radio conversion circuit converts electronic signals received on communication paths to radio frequencies that it provides on one or both of antennae . Radio conversion circuit converts radio frequencies received on one or both of antennae to electronic signals provided on communication paths . The two communications paths shown are intended to be representative of any number of communications paths appropriate to exchange electronic signals between the conversion circuit and other part of the mobile communication device e.g. a data path or processor . Although shown with the conversion circuit coupled to antennae the conversion circuit is coupled to and utilizes the antennae of the mobile communication device and one or both of the antennae may be eliminated. The antennae are tuned to provide signals compatible with the smartcard.

Unlike the smartlink modules described in reference to the mobile communication device does not follow conventional NFC communication standards requiring that the a device operating in one of either contact or contactless mode at a time e.g. ISO standards 7816 and 14443 . The mobile communication device operates as a NFC reader eliminating the process of switching between contact and contactless operation modes. In an aspect the mobile communication device does not need to switch between contact and contactless operation.

In another aspect as seen in a smartlink capable device i.e. this can be any device described above with reference to including the mobile communication device and smartlink module the mobile communication device and the smartlink module or the mobile communication device is depicted as a digital cash register which provides communication to the financial institutions of both the user and the other party. This exemplary apparatus differs from the previous apparatus in that with reference to the POS device communicates with the seller s financial institution server to process the transaction and determine whether the transaction was approved. In this embodiment the smartlink capable device communicates with the user s and the seller s financial institution server to process the transaction and determine whether the transaction was approved. Further the POS device communicates to the seller s financial institution server through the user s smartlink capable device combination device. The POS device is similar to a conventional point of sale device however it uses the smartlink capable device to provide communication to the seller s financial institution server to attain approval which is subsequently provided to the seller s POS device. The seller s POS system may later communicate with the seller s financial institution.

In another aspect the seller s POS may have limited communication and after the user s smartlink capable device provides the transaction information and the transaction is approved the seller s POS receives a digital signal from the seller s financial institution indicating that the transaction is approved. The digital signal may be in the form of an SMS.

The signal to contact the seller s financial institution is transmitted by the user s smartlink capable device at substantially the same time the smartlink capable device transmits a signal to contact the user s financial institution server . For example both the seller s and the user s financial institutions are contacted where the signal to contact the seller s financial institution server is piggy backed to the signal to contact the user s financial institution server .

The POS device contains a contactless relay circuit e.g. a contactless NFC reader writer that receives and transmits wireless signals in substantially the same frequency as conventional NFC systems. The relay circuit transmits a sales request signal requesting payment. In a preferred embodiment the sales request signal from the relay circuit includes transactional information e.g. the cost of the transaction the identification of the payee of the sales transaction e.g. the seller and additional identifying information of the sales device . The relay circuit may receive a sales status signal indicating the payment has been made. The relay circuit may also receive a sales status signal indicating the payment has been denied. The relay circuit continuously transmits the sales request signal. Alternatively the relay circuit can be activated by the user pressing an activation button or requesting a specific item on the vending machine. In response the vending machine will request a form of payment transmit a sales request signal and begin to look for a signal from a smartlink or the user s smartlink capable device . Further the relay circuit continuously checks if a sales status signal has been transmitted by a smartlink capable device . As indicated above since a contactless smartlink communication system typically has a short communication range in order to effectively communicate between smartlink capable device and a relay circuit the smartlink capable device and the relay are placed in close proximity.

The smartlink capable device receives the sales request information signal from the relay circuit . The smartlink capable device queries the user whether they are interested in conducting the transaction. If the user is interested then the user enters his her PIN number indicating agreement.

Using the identification of the payee received from the relay circuit as part of the sales request signal the smartlink capable device contacts the user s financial institution and sends a signal requesting funds be transferred to the payee in the amount of the cost of the transaction. For example if cash is the tender then cash is transferred from the user s bank to the payee s financial institution where the payee s financial institution is identifiable as part of the identification of the payee of the sales transaction. The user has previously established at least one financial institution and relevant account information to be used for the transfer of funds. If more than one financial institution has been established then the user determines either before or during a transaction which financial institution will serve as the user s source of payment. When the transfer of funds has been successfully completed from the user s bank to the payee s financial institution the user s bank provides a signal to the user s smartlink capable device indicating that transfer payment has been made.

The smartlink capable device also communicates with the financial institution of the payee. Similar to communicating with the user s financial institution the smartlink capable device uses payee information e.g. payee identification identification of payee s financial institution received from the sales device and initiates communication with the payee s financial institution. The smartlink capable device combination device provides communication to both the user s and the payee s financial institution and therefore provides the identifying address of two financial institutions to the smartlink capable device s wireless communication server. Although described with reference to communicating with two financial institutions the number of financial institutions that the smartlink capable device can communicate with depends on the implementation and can vary. This information may also be provided to a third party or a third party server which may use the transaction information for other purposes e.g. or marketing information or to schedule supply or repair information .

When the payee s financial institution receives the appropriate amount of funds from the user s financial institution the payee s financial institution provides a signal to the user s smartlink capable device indicating that the appropriate funds have been received and provide a signal indicating the approval of the sales transaction. The smartlink capable device provides a sales status signal to the relay circuit of the sales device indicating that payment has been successfully made and been approved. Therefore a smartlink capable device requests the back end processing for the POS device and the POS device receives a signal from the smartlink capable device indicating that the sales transaction has been approved by the POS s financial institution.

For example a wireless relay circuit is incorporated as part of a payment system of a soda machine where the payment for the purchase of soda is done electronically as opposed to conventional soda machines where payment is done with the use of coins and bills and the payment system is receives money provides change and enables a purchase . The user activates a secure transfer program on his smartlink capable device and places the smartlink capable device in close proximity to the relay circuit of the soda machine The relay circuit is part of the soda machine s payment mechanism which in conventional applications processes coins and bills . The smartlink capable device receives a sales request signal from the relay circuit in the soda machine. The smartlink capable device displays the cost of the transaction and queries the user for approval or simply displays the transaction and may not state the amount just the transaction. Assuming the user continues to be interested in a soda the user enters his PIN number into the smartlink capable device . The smartlink capable device communicates with the user s financial institution to transfer money for soda to the payee s e.g. the owner of the soda machine financial institution. When the transfer of funds from the user s financial institution to the payee s financial institution is complete the user s financial institution signals the user s smartlink capable device that the transaction has been successful. Confirmation of the transfer may also be sent to the user via an SMS. After the user s smartlink capable device receives a signal confirming the transfer of finds the smartlink capable device provides the sales status signal to the relay circuit in the soda machine. In a preferred embodiment the sales status signal is a digital token that allows a purchase for a specific amount of money. Generally the amount of money will be predefined. After the relay circuit receives the sales status signal confirming the transfer of funds the relay circuit of the soda machine enables the user to select a soda which will then be provided to him. In other aspects the soda machine may have different prices for each soda.

In segment S the secure transfer program runs as a background process in a mobile communication device waiting for activation. The precursor steps are that the customer interested in purchasing an item from a vending machine approaches the machine.

In segment S the user s smartlink capable device is placed near the device . The device transmits a signal that can be received and recognized by the smartlink capable device . The transmitted signal may be for example the unique identifying information of the vending machine. This information may also include identification of a computer network server associated with the vending machine.

In segment S the secure transfer program awaits a signal from the device . When a signal is received from the device then the process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program recognizes the signal from the device and sends a handshake signal back to the device as is conventionally known. The device then sends a signal to the secure transfer program of the smartlink capable device for additional information. For example the signal may indicate the purchase price upon which the smartlink capable device displays the purchase price of the goods. The secure transfer program then prompts the user to see if the user agrees with the purchase price.

In segment S the secure transfer program of the smartlink capable device requests additional information from the user. If the user agrees to the purchase price the secure transfer program requests the user input her his unique PIN number. If the user agrees and enters the appropriate PIN number then the secure transfer program extracts the secure financial data information e.g. the credit card number and associated transaction information that is stored in the smartlink capable device . The secure transfer program using the user s personal information establishes communication with the user s financial institution and requests the transfer of funds. Once the request is complete and accepted process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program using the information received from the vending machine communicates with the seller s financial institution to receive confirmation or approval of the sale. In segment S if the transaction has been approved by the seller s financial institution the seller s financial institution then sends a signal to the secure transfer program. In segment S the user is prompted to place the smartlink capable device near the vending machine and within communication range of the relay circuit .

In segment S the secure transfer program of the smartlink capable device enables a signal to the vending machine to the relay circuit of the vending machine . This signal may include the approved purchase price and may also include a security encoding or confirmation to reduce the vending machine receiving illegitimate confirmation signals. In segment S the vending machine receives the signal from the smartlink capable device approving the transaction and permits the purchase. In segment S the transaction is complete and the secure transfer program awaits another signal from a device to indicate commencing another transaction. Thus at the completion of the process the user has purchased an item from a vending machine.

In segment S the secure transfer program runs as a background process in a smartlink capable device waiting for activation. In segment S the user s smartlink capable device is placed near the other person s smartlink capable device . The other person s smartlink capable device transmits a signal that can be received and recognized by the user s smartlink capable device . In one aspect a secure transfer program of each party of each party must be initiated by the respective party and automatically controls the transaction. In another aspect each party initiates the secure transfer program and designates information necessary to the transaction e.g. who is the sender receiver amount etc. . The transmitted signal may be for example the unique identifying information of the other person s financial institution. This information may also include identification of a computer network server associated with the other person s financial institution.

In segment S the secure transfer program of the user s smartlink capable device awaits a signal from the other person s smartlink capable device . When a signal is received from the other person s smartlink capable device the process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program recognizes the signal from the other person s smartlink capable device and sends a handshaking signal back to the device . The device then sends a signal to the secure transfer program for additional information. For example the signal may indicate the transfer amount e.g. currency and value and whether the funds are to be sent or received. The user s mobile communication device displays the transfer amount. The secure transfer program then prompts the user to see if the user agrees with the transfer amount. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program requests additional information from the user. If the user agrees to the transfer amount as displayed on the mobile communication device the secure transfer program requests the user input her his unique PIN number. If the user agrees and enters the appropriate PIN number then the secure transfer program extracts the secure financial data information e.g. the credit card number or debit card number etc and associated transaction information that is stored in the mobile communication device . The secure transfer program using the user s personal information establishes communication with the user s financial institution and requests the transfer of funds. Once the request is complete and accepted process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program using the information received from the other person s mobile communication device communicates with the other person s financial institution to receive confirmation or approval of the transfer.

In segment S if the transaction has been approved by the other person s financial institution the other person s financial institution sends a signal to the secure transfer program.

In segment S the user is prompted to place the smartlink capable device near the other person s smartlink capable device and within communication range of each respective smartlink capable device .

In segment S the secure transfer program transmits a signal to the other person s smartlink capable device through the smartlink . This signal may include the approved transfer amount and may also include a security encoding or confirmation. In segment S the transaction is complete and the secure transfer program awaits another signal from a device to indicate commencing another transaction.

Thus at the completion of the process information money is transferred from one party to another party.

The methods and devices and device combinations provided can be applied to a variety of applications where increased security is sought for data transfer.

In an exemplary use secure data transfer is used in a Point of Sale transaction. Upon initiating point of sale the user will be prompted by a secure transfer program of their mobile communication device to enter their PIN number and press ok. When the user puts in the PIN number the user is then instructed to tap the mobile communication device to the reader of the seller. The user will have a defined period of time before the mobile communication device defaults back into normal security mode and restricts any information of the user to be read. Once the user has tapped the mobile communication device and given the reader its information the normal credit card processing begins. At the end of the processing the user will receive an SMS or Email receipt onto their mobile communication device to confirm the transaction which will have details such as time date amount store etc. In another aspect the secure transfer program is automatically activated when the user taps the mobile communication device to the reader. The secure transfer program will automatically recognize that this is a point of sale transaction and initiate the point of sale sub application.

In an exemplary use secure data transfer is used in a vending machine transaction. The user has the option of purchasing an item from the vending machine by either using cash money or smartlink. For example the user will activate the secure transfer program on his mobile communications device and select the sub application Vending Machine. Once the Vending Machine is selected the user will be instructed to tap mobile communication device to the reader which is on the vending machine. The mobile communication device will then receive the vending machine s ID bank information and marketing and servicing data such as the current amount of items sold and the vending machine s temperature. After smartlink receives this data the user will be instructed to enter the amount they wish to purchase then pressing ok then enter their PIN number and press OK. Smartlink will then send back a signal via the Internet. Since the user and vending machine s financial institution will be communicating with each other and with the phone the user s mobile communication device will receive an SMS receipt to confirm completion of transaction which will include the amount purchased vending machine s ID date and time of the transaction. The method of using includes a user selecting Vending Machine application from the Secure Transfer Program of the user s mobile communication device tapping the mobile communication device on reader entering the amount to purchase and pressing Ok entering the amount and PIN number and pressing OK receive authorization and then tapping the mobile communication device to reader. Then the vending machine will activate and the user selects an item. The Secure Transfer program waits for a SMS receipt.

In another exemplary use secure data transfer is used in an arcade transaction. The Arcade Application is similar to the vending machine example and not only gives the user the option paying the arcade through smartlink but also permits uploading the user s score and position in arcade games that are played. The mobile communication device will automatically select the Arcade Application from the secure transfer program. Once the Arcade Application is automatically selected the user will enter the amount to be purchased and will press OK. The user will then enter his her PIN number and press OK. When the transaction is approved the user will tap the mobile communication device on reader again to start playing. The user will receive an SMS receipt confirming transaction completion which will include the amount purchased arcade date and time. Then the mobile communication device will give the option to upload existing position. The user will press OK and tap the mobile communication device on reader located on the arcade if he wishes to do so. The user will also press OK and tap the mobile communication device on reader to download the ending score. The phone will inform the user that the score has been uploaded. A method of use includes the user tapping his mobile communication device on reader located on the arcade machine and mobile communication device will automatically select application entering the amount to be purchased and pressing OK entering PIN number and pressing OK tapping the mobile communication device on reader waiting for an SMS receipt where the receipt will show transaction completion including amount arcade date and time of transaction pressing OK and tapping the mobile communication device to the reader on arcade machine to upload information e.g. existing position pressing OK and tapping mobile communication device to the reader on arcade to upload existing score. The mobile communication device will inform user that the score has been uploaded on the mobile communication device.

In an exemplary use secure data transfer is used in a parking meter transaction. The Parking Meter Application allows the user to pay the parking meter by using smartlink instead of cash. For example once the user park his car he will activate the secure transfer program. The mobile communication device will instruct the users to tap the mobile communication device on the reader associated with a parking meter and then will automatically select Parking Meter as the sub application. The user will then enter his PIN number and press OK. The secure transfer program will instruct the user to tap the mobile communication device again to begin the transaction. The mobile communication device time will start to run. Once the user returns to the car he will select to end transaction of the secure transfer program of the mobile communication device. The mobile communication device timer will stop and the user will be instructed to tap the mobile communication device on the reader of the parking meter to complete the transaction. The timer will only stop for a few seconds but will start up again if the user does not tap the mobile communication device to complete transaction. When the transaction is complete the mobile communication device will communicate with the smartlink server to carry out the financial transaction with the server of the parking meter. The user will receive an SMS receipt confirming completion of transaction which will include amount parking period parking meter date and time. A method of use includes the user selecting the secure transfer program tapping the mobile communication device to the reader of a parking meter and the mobile communication device will automatically select parking meter application entering his PIN number and pressing OK tapping the mobile communication device to parking meter to start the clock running selecting end transaction tapping the mobile communication device to the reader of the parking meter to complete transaction waiting for an SMS receipt and receiving an SMS receipt which confirms the transaction completion which will include amount parking period parking meter date and time.

Another example of an application is a person to person financial exchange. Person to person is a method of exchanging currency in a digital mode with two smartlink enabled devices. The process is designed to mimic a paper currency transaction but in a digital and thus secure form. During the money exchange process the users will have the option of activating smartlink for giving or receiving money. Upon selecting the person to person process under the secure transfer program and selecting whether they wish to send or receive money users will be instructed to enter the amount they wish to transfer or credit along with their individual pin numbers. Once users respectively enter their pin numbers and press ok they will be instructed to tap mobile communication devices. The mobile communication devices will communicate with their respective smartlink servers to coordinate the financial transaction between financial institutions. The users will then receive an SMS receipt confirming completion of transaction which will include the name of the person to whom they sent or received money the date and time of the transaction. The method of using includes the user selecting the person to person application selecting send or receive if the user is the sender of the funds entering the amount to be transferred and his PIN number if the user is the receiver of the funds entering pin number pressing OK tapping each mobile communication device to each other s smartlink. The financial institutions are contacted via the cellular link and transaction processing is done between the server s of the financial institutions and an SMS receipt is respectively received by each party confirming the transaction.

Another exemplary use is a grocery information transaction. The Grocery Information application provides a user with the option of finding product information price comparison and coupons by activating smartlink. For example the user will activate the secure transfer program on his mobile communication device and then select the sub application Grocery Information. The secure transfer program will instruct the user to tap mobile communication device on an NFC tag of a product. Once the mobile communication device is tapped it will give the user three options Details Comparisons and Coupons. By selecting Details the user will be given product details such as manufacturing location and nutritional information. By selecting Comparisons the user will be given price comparisons between alternative brands. Information about the product can be provided by an NFC tag directly or by using the product identifying information determined by the NFC tag and getting the information from an appropriate server. By selecting Coupons the user will be informed of any available coupon for that particular product. The coupon value can then be automatically deducted from the user s bill during a Point of Sale transaction. A method of use would include the user selecting grocery information tapping the mobile communication device on the NFC tag selecting among several options Details Options 1 Comparisons Option 2 and Coupons Option 3 . Depending on the option the secure transfer program will inform user of product details such as manufacturing and nutritional information price comparisons between products e.g. chosen and other alternative brands or will inform of any available coupon for that product which will be automatically discounted during the Point of Sale process respectively.

Digital Coupon are another example of a use. The Digital Coupon transaction allows a person to find any available coupons for a particular store and to use it towards their purchase or define specific coupons at that store for that specific individual. Upon entering the store a user will be able to use smartlink to verify the existence of coupons for that particular store. For example the user will the activate secure transfer program and select the sub application Digital Coupon. The user will be instructed to tap the mobile communication device to a reader of the store and the mobile communication device will inform the user of any particular coupon for that store. Once the purchase is made and the Point of Sale process initiated discount can will be taken automatically for a transaction.

In yet another exemplary use is for purchasing products at home e.g. grocery purchases . The Home Grocery Buying Application allows a user to purchase an item from home through the smartlink system. For example the user will activate secure transfer program and select the sub application Home Grocery Buying. The mobile communication device will instruct the user to Tap Phone on NFC Tag of the selected product that is sought to be purchased. The mobile communication device will further instruct the user to press OK to complete transaction or to press Next to purchase another product as well. Once all products are ready to be purchased mobile communication device will give the user an option to have purchase delivered to the user s address or pickup items at store. The user will then enter a PIN number and press OK. The mobile communication program will inform the user of a location or store that can service the user and may be provided a choice of stores. The user will select the store they want to purchase the items from. The smartlink server will communicate with the server of the selected store and the user will receive a SMS receipt upon transaction completion which will include amount purchased store date and time. A method of use includes a user selecting Grocery Information Application selecting the Home Purchase option tapping a mobile communication device to a product pressing OK to complete transaction or next to purchase another product selecting an option to complete transaction pressing OK to have purchase delivered to the user s address or to pickup entering his PIN number and pressing OK selecting a store to service the order e.g. among three nearest locations waiting for an SMS receipt. The user receives an SMS receipt confirming transaction completion information including amount store date and time.

In an exemplary use of the invention includes Virtual In Store Ordering as seen for . A user places a mobile communication device having near field communications capability near an NFC tag e.g. an RFID tag of a product and the mobile communication device reads and interprets information from the NFC tag and the mobile communication device performs an action in an appropriate manner depending on the kind of information. In a preferred embodiment the mobile communication device uses information associated with the product received from the NFC tag to provide this information to the user to request information about the product from a remote location e.g. a web site to request additional information about the product and to order the product for purchase. For example when a user taps a mobile communication device having NFC capabilities on an NFC tag of a product the mobile communication device receives and interprets information from the NFC tag associated the product. The information also contains instructions on how to order the product from a default retailer which in an aspect is the retailer where the user and product are located. The instructions are processed by the mobile communications device automatically or manually requiring some input from the user of the mobile communications device. Thus a mobile communication device will step a user through an ordering process for a product. A program to step the user through the ordering process resides on the mobile communication device. Alternatively the program resides on another server or computer system and user s mobile communication device provides input to and receives out from that server and in turn prompts the user for input and provides output to the user. For example the mobile communication device using its input output capabilities confirms that the user is interested in purchasing the product how many of the products the user wants as well as payment and shipping information. In an aspect the instructions from the NFC tag of a product also includes information regarding different retailers that carry the product which provides the user the opportunity to select a particular retailer to purchase the product from. The user s selection of a retailer can be driven by a current user preference for example price location availability reputation but the user s selection of a retailer is not so limited. Using information about the desired or default retailer the mobile communication device communicates with a server associated with the information provided by the product and causes an order to be placed with the server for the product. The server performs back end processing and processes the order and payment information. And upon confirmation of payment the server processes the shipping of the product to the user. In an aspect the mobile communication device uses the information regarding the product acquired from the NFC tag combined with user s information to process the purchase order. The user s information such as bank or payment information user s home billing and delivery addresses is previously stored in a storage area of the mobile communication device or contemporaneously entered with product ordering using the NFC tag information by the user into the mobile communication device. In another aspect the user s information is stored in a server that processes or is associated with the server processing the order in lieu of or in addition to user s information stored in the mobile communications device. Preferably the mobile communication device uses its data connection to the Internet to communicate to a server which is used to transfer the user s information to the server processing the order. The server than connects to the retailer s website and processes the order. In an exemplary use of virtual in store ordering in a store as depicted in an NFC tag located on a product is read by a customer s mobile communication device having NFC capability. The mobile communication device communicates through its cellular tower system to its cellular server . The cellular server communicates with the business server which processes the purchase of the product identified by the NFC tag and the business server causes the warehouse to ship the product to the customer.

Upon completion of the successful processing of the order the retailer s site or the middle server then sends an electronic confirmation of the purchase via direct connect message SMS or other means to the user s mobile communication device or other location as designated by the user. This aspect of the invention allows consumers an increased buyer awareness including but not limited to learning of product alternatives or substitutes continuity products

In another aspect by a user placing a mobile communication device close to an NFC tag of a product and receiving information from the NFC tag the information is data conveyed to a user through the mobile communication device where the data provides a user information about the product. For example the product information is technical specifications operating instructions general summary of product features detailed description of product warnings or cautions or intended use. In another aspect the mobile communication device uses the information from the NFC tag which describes a location of additional information e.g. an Internet URL and the mobile communication device retrieves information from the website associated with the URL that the mobile communication device and conveys that information to the user through a display of the mobile communication device.

Thus a user using a mobile communication device capable of near field communication can read an NFC tag associated with a product which enables a user to purchase the product learn more about the product or get special deals about the product etc. which can enhance the user s shopping experience. Additionally a retailer or his agent can utilize the user s information to provide to the user product coupons and promotions. In another aspect rather than using an NFC tag a user enters on the mobile communications device a unique product identification code for the product e.g. a UPC code. Using this code the mobile communication device connects to system defined server to look up production information and or retailer information for the product and down loads that information to the mobile communications device. An advantage of using the Virtual In Store Ordering is that a user can purchase an item or acquire information about an item from almost any location. A retailer having a storefront using virtual in store ordering may be able to reduce the requirement for onsite inventory by being able to apply for the delivery of the item based on the user s order and purchase.

In an exemplary use Medical chart information use confirmation process occurs. The Medical Charts Application will allow user to digitally transfer insurance and or medical information during a visit to the doctor. For example a user will activate his secure transfer program on his NFC capable device e.g. NFC capable device upon reaching the front desk of the doctor s office. The doctor s office computer executes a program that connects the doctor s office computer to a third party server e.g. a medical records server or insurance company server. e.g. the program may be a web application that the Doctor s office has accessed through the Internet. The user will tap the NFC capable device on a NFC reader connected to the doctor s medical office. The secure transfer program will receive a signal from the NFC reader and determine the context e.g. medical office and automatically select the Medical Records option. In response to being prompted the user will enter his PIN number into his NFC capable device which will provide access to the user s personal information stored in the NFC capable device. The user will tap the smart capable device again thereby transferring his personal information e.g. name social security number and information access certificate to the reader. The NFC reader provides the user s personal information to the doctor s office computer. The doctor s office computer through its connection to the third party server provides the user s personal information and identifying information of the doctor s office e.g. name and IP address to the third party server. The third party server compares the user s information with information stored within the third party server and if the user s records are a part of the third party server s records then the third party server sends a confirmation signal back to the doctor s office through the internet and sends by cellular communication a confirmation signal to the user. The doctor s office now has electronic access to the user s medical records stored electronically at the third party server. The third party server will send preferably by cellular communication a signal to the user each time the doctor s office accesses the user s records. The user can also utilize his NFC capable device to prevent the doctor s office from having any further access to the user s records. In this manner the user can monitor and control the doctor s office access to the records. An example of a method of using this aspect of this aspect of the invention is seen in . The process would proceed in the following steps 

In segment S the secure transfer program runs as a process in a mobile communication device as a background process.

In segment S the secure transfer program awaits a signal from the device . The transmitted signal may be for example the unique identifying information of the medical office. This information may also include identification of a computer network server associated with the medical office. When a signal is received from the device then the process continues to segment S.

In segment S the secure transfer program determines the type of signal from the device and selects the Medical Records Option. The secure transfer program prompts the user to confirm whether the user agrees with the medical office having access to that information for access to the user s medical records .

In segment S the secure transfer program requests additional information from the user. If the user agrees to the medical office s access to the user s information the user enters his PIN number.

In segment S the user taps the NFC capable device to the Doctor s office reader thereby providing his personal information to the reader.

In segment S the reader provides the personal information to the Doctor s office computer server which in turns provides this information to the third party server e.g. the medical server .

In segment S the third party server compares the user s information that is provided with the stored information of the user. If information agrees then the third party server sends a confirmation signal to the Doctor s office server confirming access to the user s medical records. The third party server also sends a confirmation signal to the user.

In another exemplary use of the present invention a prescription process is provided. The Prescription Application offers the user a couple of options after the prescription is purchased such as reminding the user to take a pill and providing the user with a refill option. The user activates the secure transfer program and the mobile communication device will instruct the user to tap mobile communication device on prescription label containing the NFC Tag. The mobile communication device will then automatically select the Prescription Application. Once the Prescription Application is automatically selected the mobile communication device will give the user the option of selecting a schedule for a reminder to remind him her to take his her medication e.g. an alarm clock the user is reminded in the morning to take a pill. The application can include a reminder for refilling the prescription. By using the refill reminder feature the user can request that he be reminded a certain time period a desired number of times and certain times of the day before the prescription should expire. For example one day before the user s pill supply is about to be depleted completely the mobile communication device will ask the user if he she would like to refill prescription. If the answer is yes then the mobile communication device will order a prescription refill.

At that point the secure transfer program communicates through it cellular capability with the user s pharmacy e.g. the computer system of the user to place an order for a refill of the prescription. The user will then receive a confirmation that the refill is being processed. An SMS will then give the order and pick up information indicating when the prescription is read for pickup. A method of use may include the user selecting the secure transfer program to select the refill prescription option entering yes pressing OK and the mobile communication device will inform the user that a refill is being processed. The user will receive an SMS receipt showing the order and pick up confirmation information. A method of use may includes a user selecting the secure transfer program tapping on the prescription label containing the NFC tag and the sub application prescription is automatically selected pressing OK to have secure transfer program remind the user of when to take a pill based on quantity of prescription recommended usage and the precise times based on the first use of the pill and corresponding to the first use of the prescription application . To use this reminder service the reminder is either an SMS from a cellular server or a reminder from an pill alarm clock on mobile communication device.

In the context of computer access which is secured by a smartlink system when the user s logs on to a computer the computer checks that the user is permitted access to the computer and determines if the user is part of a smartlink system. If the user is part of the smartlink system then the computer sends a message to a smartlink server requesting confirmation and authentication of the user. This message includes the identification provided by the user. The smartlink server sends a message to the user via SMS or digital means requesting confirmation of access to the computer. If user confirms and sends a message to the smartlink server then the smartlink server sends a confirmation message to the computer system. When the computer system receives confirmation signal from the smartlink server then the user is granted access to the computer. Therefore the computer does not directly contact the user to confirm access. The user is contacted indirectly where the smartlink server serves as the connection between the computer and the user s smartlink capable device .

An access control system is provided as another exemplary use of the present invention. Using a mobile communication device having NFC for physical access to a facility is depicted in . In the context of physical access to a secured area the NFC system is used to confirm identity. When a user attempts to enter an area secured by a NFC system the user places his mobile communication device having NFC close to the NFC reader as part of a door lock that is coupled to a computer system controlling access to the secured area. After the computer system and the user s mobile communication device having NFC establishes communications the user is prompted by the secure transfer program to enter his PIN. The secure transfer program on the mobile communication device having NFC unlocks secure access information stored within the mobile communication device having NFC and provides that information to the computer system through the NRC reader . Upon receiving and confirming the user s access information the computer system enables the user s access to the secure area.

In another aspect of the invention when a user is visiting a secure facility a secure electronic key can be received from a remote server. As depicted in upon request a key database can provide a key to particular lock of a door having an NFC reader having NFC. In an aspect a user requests a key to the door having an NFC reader from the key database server the key database server communicates with the server to provide the key. The server provides the key to the mobile communication device having NFC through the cellular tower . The mobile communication device having NFC provides the key to the NFC reader of the door which communicates with its server to verify the key. If the key is correct then the server communicates a signal indicating that the key is correct to the door and the door is unlocked. If the users visits a second facility having a locked door the user can remotely receive a key from a same or different key database server to this second secure door . In an aspect the mobile communication device having NFC is placed closed to the NFC reader of the door and acquires identification of the door lock. The mobile communication device having NFC communicates with key database server requesting a key and provides the door information to the key database server . The key database server uses the door information to provide the correct key to the mobile communication device having NFC.

In an aspect a user will have the option of using his key or smartlink to enable the user access to locked system which may be a door or any other similar scenario including for example a computer. For example the user will activate the secure transfer program and select a sub application Access Control. The user will then be instructed to enter his her PIN number and press Ok. Once the user enters the PIN number the user will be instructed to tap mobile communication device on the reader on the door the user s access information will be provided and the door will open. A method of use includes the user selecting access control option entering his her PIN number and pressing OK tapping the mobile communication device on reader which is located on the door and the door is enabled to open e.g. the user is permitted access . This process would then be repeated at a second facility.

In another use a smartlink transaction is initiated by a third party. In this aspect there are four elements of the system utilized to complete a transaction. A smartlink device a smartlink server a financial system and the seller s system. The smartlink device which in a preferred use is a cellular mobile communication device or a similar mobile communication device is used by the customer to securely purchase items from a seller at a distance. As it is known a customer seeks to purchase items from a non brick and mortar environment where the customer does not visit the seller s actual location but instead accesses the seller through a form of communication system e.g. mobile communication device or Internet. After shopping and selecting certain items the customer confirms and processes the purchases of the selected items from the seller from a distance by use of a communication device coupled with smartchip similar to that described above. The seller s system is the computer system maintained or operated by or for a seller. A financial system is a method of financial payment that is correlated to the user of the smartlink device. The financial system may be for example a credit card bank or other financial institution. The seller may be for example a retail shop an online store or other brokerage and or transaction broker.

In another aspect of the invention a mobile communications device is used to page individuals as seen for example in . In an exemplary use a near field communications enabled mobile communications device reads information preferably from an NFC tag or some other source of appropriate information that provides the information necessary to page a person or thing. For example the mobile communications device when placed with range of an NFC tag reads the NFC tag at a particular location and receives information from the NFC tag indicating the contact information e.g. a phone number of a person desired to be paged. This information is stored in the mobile communications device and used when initiated by the user on the mobile communication device to page the person preferably by an application of a secure transfer program residing and operating on the mobile communication device. Additionally the mobile communication device provides additional information to the person being paged including but not limited to a location or phone number to respond to. For example in a store or restaurant the paging system is used to request assistance from a store or restaurant employee. An NFC tag at a specified location is read by a mobile communication device having NFC. The mobile communication device executing an appropriate program provides its user an option to page a store associate or waitress. If the user accepts the option the mobile communication device using the information acquired and interpreted from the NFC tag e.g. the business and specific location in that business where the consumer is located and information to establish communications with a server associated with the business will send the user s location information to the server associated via the wireless or Internet data connection of the mobile communication device. The server based on the information received from the mobile communication device will understand the location of the user requesting a page. The server will then provide that information to the business at that location of the user so that the business can in turn notify an employee where a user is requesting assistance. In another aspect the server accesses business records associated with the business where the user is located and determines what employees are currently working. Having determined what employees are working the server sends a call out to that specific employee via SMS MMS mobile communication device or other communication means. The employee then is directed to the user at the specified location in the business. In another aspect the information on the NFC tag is used by the mobile communication devices to communicate directly with a business employee based on the information from the NFC tag. The information on the NFC tag is contact information for an employee or employees of the store e.g. a phone number a cell phone number an email address instant messaging address etc. The mobile communication device uses the contact information to directly communicate e.g. by calling or emailing with the business employee. In an exemplary use in a restaurant as depicted in an NFC tag located on a restaurant table is read by a customer s mobile communication device having NFC capability. The mobile communication device communicates through its cellular tower system to its cellular server . The cellular server communicates with the business server which determines an appropriate employee and then communicates with the communication device of the employee . In another exemplary use in a store as depicted in an NFC tag on a restaurant table is read by a customer s mobile communication device having NFC capability. The mobile communication device communicates through its cellular tower system to its cellular server . The cellular server communicates with the business server which determines an appropriate employee and then communicates with the communication device of the employee .

In another aspect the mobile communication system is used to be a recipient of page for example based on a queuing or some other ordering system which could be used in such scenarios as a deli or a bank line as seen for example in . The consumer can tap their mobile communication device to a NFC reader or NFC tag. The NFC reader in the deli scenario receives user information from the user s mobile communication device through a NFC communication. That user information is contact information of the user e.g. the mobile communication device phone number or email address of the consumer. The reader at the deli working alone or in conjunction with a computer server has pre defined rules that will send a page at an appropriate time when it is the user s time for service. The reader at the deli either alone or in conjunction with a server sends a page through an Internet connection or telephone system to the user s mobile communication device the server receives updates as users are processed through the queue and when the service is ready for the next customer. The user can receive that page via SMS MMS phone call or other communications protocol. The queuing system and hierarchy can be maintained either at the reader or the reader can simply communicate the information to a server that has an application which controls and processes the paging and queuing of the service entity e.g. the deli. In another aspect of the service scenario e.g. a deli a consumer continues to shopping and is paged based on a predefined advanced notice e.g. when there is only two people before him in the queue. This paging system creates an efficiency for commerce and service by wasting less time for the consumer. In an exemplary use in a deli restaurant as depicted in an NFC reader located on a deli service counter which reads a customer s mobile communication device having NFC capability and receives contact information. The NFC reader communicates the contact information to its associated computer system . The computer system maintains a queuing system and when the time is appropriate in the progression of the queue to page the customer the computer system communicates with a cellular server and using the contact information contacts the customer s mobile communication device through its tower and indicates a signal indicating a page. In another exemplary use in a bank as depicted in FIG. an NFC reader located on a bank service counter which reads a customer s mobile communication device having NFC capability and receives contact information. The NFC reader communicates the contact information to its associated computer system . The computer system maintains a queuing system and when the time is appropriate in the progression of the queue to page the customer the computer system communicates with a cellular server and using the contact information contacts the customer s mobile communication device through its tower and indicates a signal indicating a page.

A method of using the smartlink transaction is described with respect to . It is known for a customer to log onto the Internet and purchase items from stores on the Internet. Typically the customer pays for the selected items by the use of a credit card by entering information into a web page or pages of the seller. Adding a smartlink transaction is initiated by a third party system. The security and reliability of the transaction is increased by strengthening the likelihood that a customer who is paying for a purchase with a financial instrument e.g. a credit card is also the owner of the credit card or acting under the authority of the owner of the credit card.

As seen in there are four elements of the remote payment confirmation system. A smartlink device a smartlink server a financial system server and the seller s system server . The smartlink device which in a preferred embodiment is a smartlink capable device similar to that described above. The seller s system server is the computer system maintained or operated by or for a seller. A financial system server is associated with the user s financial institution. The financial system may be for example a credit card a bank or an other financial institution. The seller may be for example a retail shop an online store or other brokerage and or transaction broker. In this use a remote smartlink transaction is initiated by a third system e.g. the seller s system .

A method of using the remote smartlink transaction is described with respect to . As seen in in segment S a user selects the item s that he wishes to purchase. If for example the seller is an e merchant that is accessible on line the user may select a series of items from the choices provided by the seller and places them in his shopping cart. In another aspect a user may contact and select items from a seller by mobile communication device. In segment S the user proceeds to pay for the items chosen. In segment S the selected items for purchase are totaled.

In segment S the user selects a method of payment. In an on line purchase environment for example the user will select his preferred method of payment by clicking on the icon representing the payment method or otherwise indicating his decision. In a mobile communication device purchase environment for example the user will select the payment method by telling the seller or the seller s agent his preferred method of payment. In a preferred approach the user selects smartlink Financial as the preferred method of payment. The user s selection is received by the seller s system.

In segment S the seller s system determines what method was selected or chosen by the user and communicates with the respective server of the payment method. For example if the user chose VISA the seller s system will communicate with the VISA server. If the user selected smartlink Financial as the method of payment then the process continues to segment S.

In segment S the seller s system requests identifying information from the user. The identifying information is used to associate the user with the transaction. The identifying information can be for example a smartlink account number or the user s mobile communication device number that the user desires to use for the transaction. In segment S the seller s system communicates identifying information to a smartlink server. In segment S the smartlink system receives the identifying information and determines the associated user.

In segment S the smartlink server will send the customer to the user s mobile communication device equipped with the smartlink system a signal asking if customer had requested to purchase some items from seller and requests confirmation. In a preferred embodiment this is a digital communication mostly likely in the form of an SMS. In segment S after receiving the SMS signal the user can send a signal back to the smartlink system confirming the transaction. In one aspect each item and possibly the price is displayed on the user s mobile communication device so that the user can confirm the purchase of each item. In another aspect the seller s information is displayed and the total purchase price is presented for the approval of the user. In segment S the smartlink awaits the confirmation signal s from the user. If and when the confirmation signal is received from the user the process continues to segment S. In segment S if user has declined then the purchase is canceled.

In segment S if user has accepted then process continues to segment S. In segment S the smartlink application will then request that the user enter his PIN number. In segment S if the PIN number is accepted then the smartlink application on the mobile communication device will unencrypted the information that is not unencrypted and the information which may be encrypted or unencrypted is then sent to the financial server with acceptance certificates and the server unencrypts. The user s financial information stored in the mobile communication device and transmits it to the smartlink server. The user s information sent to the financial server will be encrypted. In general the information sent to the financial server is for example an encrypted certificate and acceptance command as well as the user s information such as address name credit card number etc. This information will typically include the user s billing and preferred shipping address as well as contact information day and evening mobile communication device numbers possibly even an email address . In this aspect the user is not required to enter this information as part of a purchase but the information is added to the purchase as part of the smartlink exchange of information with the seller s server.

In segment S the financial institution s server communicates to the seller to confirm approval or the third party server s communicates to the financial institutions server to confirm the purchase and then the financial institution s server communicates to the sellers server this assumes that the financial institution has also approved the transaction i.e. that the user has a sufficient amount of funds or line of credit available for the desired transaction. The process continues to segment S.

In segment S once the transaction confirmation and approval is provided to the seller s server the user is provided a signal preferably a digital communication in the form of an SMS reflecting that a purchase has been processed from a specific store and can include total amount items etc. The process continues to segment S.

Thus a remotely conducted financial transaction is confirmed by contacting the user associated with the payment method and receiving confirmation from him. In another aspect the financial institution and the smartlink server are part of a single system. This is depicted in as Financial smartlink server . In yet another aspect a convention mobile user interface which does not include a smartlink module or embedded smartlink is used place of a smartlink capable device in a remotely conducted financial transaction as described with respect to .

In another use the user s smartlink system initiates and facilitates the processing of a financial transaction. The process is initiated when the user with a smartlink device approaches and taps places it very close to the smartlink device to the smartlink reader. The secure transfer program recognizes the process necessary that corresponding to the reader and starts that process. The user inputs their PIN to release encrypted information. The mobile communication device sends this information to the user s bank and to the seller s bank. Once the two banks communicate and the transaction is approved one of the banks sends a signal to the user s mobile communication device with a certificate to show authenticity and an electronic token which represents a certain value . The mobile communication device is tapped on the NFC reader and sends this information to the NFC reader relay circuit. The NFC reader processes the transaction if the certificate and the value are appropriate.

In another aspect of the invention enables a user to access a secured system with several facilities where some of the facilities have different access control systems back ends computer data or communication systems from different service providers or require different passwords as seen for example in . A user using a mobile communication device which is smartlink enabled visits a first facility having a first access control system and places the mobile communication device near a reader of the first access control system. Using identifying information received from the first access control system the mobile communication device determines what the first facility to be. Upon a prompt the users inputs a PIN number which enables the mobile communication device to contact a server associated with the access control system and request a passkey. The server is a centralized server that can contain control issue verify and do other such actions where the specific key for that specific location will be issued to the user after the user of the mobile communication device that is smartlink enabled is confirmed. This allows for centralization and a unique networking of multiple facilities with multiple access controls systems. mobile communication device provides the user s information and the facility information and upon verification the server associated with the access control system provides a passkey to the mobile communication device via the mobile communications devices internet connection the key provides the user access to at least a portion of that facility. The user is notified of the receipt of the passkey and taps the mobile communication device to the access control reader of the first facility. The passkey key is provided by the mobile communication device to the reader of that facility allows entry to that user. The mobile communication device communicates the pass key information to the reader via NFC communication.

Another aspect of the invention is used to facilitate information on demand as seen for example in . In this aspect information is provided to the mobile communication device having near field communications capabilities based on the tag information from an NFC tag or NFC reader . For example the users taps their mobile communication device to and receives tag information from either a NFC tag or NFC reader . The mobile communication device processes the information received from the NFC tag or NFC reader and uses the information to determine and establish communications with its cellular service or the like and access an Internet website based on the tag information. In an exemplary use the tag information is a web based URL. The mobile communication device also uses the tag information to determine which application on the mobile communication device is used to perform the access. For example the tag information indicates that the cellular service is to be used. Any applications on the mobile communication device can be used. Once the application is determined and the application is executed the mobile communication device application interacts with the website to coordinate the method of communications e.g. downloading or streaming as well as other communications issues e.g. security or restricted websites. In a preferred embodiment five different types of information can be provided to the user through her mobile communication device Text Images Video Audio Flash and phone. These are briefly described as follows 

Text Images communications permit text and or images to be viewed by a user on the mobile communication device either by downloading or streaming the text images to the mobile communication device.

Video communications permit a video to be viewed by a user on the mobile communication device either by downloading or streaming the video to the mobile communication device.

Audio communications permit audio to be played for a user on the mobile communication device either by downloading or streaming the audio to the mobile communication device.

Flash communications permit a flash file to be displayed for a user on the mobile communication device either by downloading or streaming the flash filed to the mobile communication device. A flash file is known to those with skill in the art.

Phone communications permits user to be directly connected to the specific person or service they need or wish to talk to that is defined or connected based on the information received by the mobile communication device from the NFC tag.

Routing of the information to the mobile communication device is performed as conventionally known where an application running on the mobile communication device recognizes the unique scenario and processes that scenario. Information on demand can use the information on the NFC tag to make the mobile communication device communicate via an internet connection to a server and access one of the five scenarios for information on demand. It can begin a video stream to the mobile communication device it can begin an audio stream to the mobile communication device it can access images and text on the mobile communication device it can access download of an interactive flash file to the mobile communication device or it can route the mobile communication device to initialize a phone call to a specific individual such as a customer service or sales representative specific to that product or service without requiring the consumer to route through menus or voice prompts.

Similarly in another aspect of the invention the mobile communication device is a conduit for a web based application. In an exemplary use web applications run on the mobile communication device in two ways first an application is a thin client where an application on the mobile communication device seamlessly accesses a web based application that can run on the mobile communication device but the consumer can not tell the difference between the web based application existing on the mobile communication device as an installed and executing program on the mobile communication device or the application virtually being on the mobile communication device and actually being executed on a remote server and being displayed on the display of the mobile communication device and using inputs of the mobile communication device. In a second scenario the mobile communication device runs a first application that recognizes based on a self identification system e.g. the double tap methodology described above the type and kind of second application. The first application accesses the data connection of the mobile communication device and communicates with a web location associated with the second application. From the web location the mobile communication devices receives either the third application a sub application which is related to the second application or the information that the first application needs to build and install the third application on the mobile communication device. Thus in this scenario as the second application remains on the remote server and is not installed on the mobile communication device limits to the mobile communication device s memory are not an issue. Sub applications that are used often stay on the phone and applications that are not used often are deleted and replaced with new applications depending on the use and need of the individual using the mobile communication device. Both scenarios solve the issue of limited space on the mobile communication device s memory allowing hundreds and even thousands of applications on the mobile communication device capitalizing on high speed wireless data networks.

Many of the advantages of the present invention are apparent when looking at some of the many different applications of the present invention. Not limited to sales the methods and apparatus described above can be used for any financial or information transaction access control of systems and facilities access or remote access to information warehouses such as medical database etc. For example the methods and apparatus described above can be used to transfer money from the user s account to another party s account where the information necessary to conduct the transaction is transferred to the user s mobile communication device by placing the user s mobile communication device in close proximity to the other party s mobile communication device. Both the user s mobile communication device and the other party s mobile communication device have secure cellular network connections to the financial institution s servers. All transactions can be tracked so if a user provides another party with a balance transfer the transaction is tracked to show where the funds are transferred to. As in conventional funds transfers the user s and other party s financial institution records transactions and the records of these transactions are maintained by the respective financial institutions.

In another aspect the secure transfer program has more than one type of transaction that it can process. For example the secure transfer program can process POS sales and also process access control. In an aspect when the secure transfer program becomes active e.g. after receiving a signal in a NFC frequency from a NFC receiver transmitter the secure transfer program will prompt the user to select which type of process the user would like to conduct. Once selected the secure transfer program then executes the appropriate process.

In another aspect the secure transfer program will recognize the appropriate type of transaction that the user is most likely interested in conducting. In this aspect a signal from a NFC receiver transmitter will include an identification of the context or type of transaction system that it is a part of. When the secure transfer program is not already executing a process and it receives a signal from a NFC receiving transmitter the program will examine the signal to determine if it contains information identifying the context of the transaction. If the signal does include contextual information then the secure transfer program begins a confirmation process for that context. For example in a point of sale context the POS NFC receiver transmitter will transmit signals that includes a signal indicating that the context is POS. If the secure transfer program identifies the context as a POS then the secure transfer program will commence the confirmation process.

While the invention has been described and illustrated with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it should be understood that many modifications and substitutions could be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention even though a particular embodiment is not specifically described. For example the different processing segments described above are not limited to those segments or that order of segments segments may be omitted and still maintain the spirit and scope of the invention. Although generally the description above refers to a processing chip it should not be so limited and can include many other implementations and instrumentalities. The chip could be for example a microprocessor an integrated circuit transceiver or module. Although the inventions above are generally described with respect to financial transactions the invention is not intended to be so limited and can be used to increase the security of any type of data that can be stored in a mobile communication device. Although described as a mobile communication device and the invention is not so limited and can include various mobile user interfaces including cellular phones mobile communicators personal digital assistants portable processing devices keyboard keypads and biometric devices.

Additionally although several different embodiments and aspects of the invention are described above the methods of use are applicable to every variation of the invention although each embodiment may require a modification of the methods of necessary to be adapted to each invention. Further adaptation of the methods of use may be required for the use of the invention in different contexts.

Additionally although examples are described with respect to the transfer of funds the invention is not so limited and the implementation of the invention may also include acceptance of credit. For example the user s financial institution may provide the seller with a indication that maybe will be made at a future date and seller s will accept this indication and permit a transaction to continue as if the money had actually been transferred. This most likely would be occur where the user s financial institution is a credit card company the credit card company may not pay transfer finds contemporaneous with the user s purchase but instead may transfer finds at a later time. Although not expressly indicated the secure transfer program in each embodiment and or aspect of the invention may be different. The program may also vary depending on the type and model of mobile communication device used. Further there are different methods of confirming the processing e.g. getting approval with the use of the embodiments described above and the invention is not intended to be so limited. Although the embodiments are generally described with respect to a seller s computer system communicating with a financial institution the invention is not intended to be so limited and the seller s system can communicate with more than one financial institution.

Additionally in many of the aspects described above a non communication device can be used in place of a mobile communication device. For example a personal digital assistant can be coupled with a smartlink module. Furthermore although the above descriptions refer to confirmation authentication of an owner and or user the invention is not meant to be limited to the actual owner user. For example a user tells a third party his PIN number so that the third party can use the user s mobile communication device to perform a transaction. e.g. purchase a soft drink . Although some of the inventions are described as having devices or circuit being in compliance with established standards e.g. ISO standards the invention is not intended on being so limited. For example a mobile communication device may communicate with a smartlink processing chip in a contact mode following ISO standard 7816. However the operating system in a mobile communication device maybe designed to communicate with the processing chip in a contact mode using any conventional communication standard.

Furthermore in the processes methods of use descriptions above separate processes segments may be combined into a single process segments therefore reducing the number distinct processes segments and visa versa process that are represented as a single segment may be broken down into a plurality of segments. When a description above refers to a transfer of money this is not meant to be limited to an actual transfer of money but may include other transfers including where the transferee may anticipate that the transfer will occur and approve the transaction before the money is transferred.

In the descriptions above a secure transfer program may be a single program or application a program application with sub programs and or sub applications or it may be many programs and or applications. A secure transfer program may have different requirements to properly execute the appropriate transaction process. For example a secure transfer program for a vending machine context is likely to be different from a secure transfer program for a point of sale scenario. Additionally the selection of the appropriate secure transfer program for a transaction context may be done manually by a user or it might be done automatically by a secure transfer program recognizing the context in which it is being used. An automatic recognition feature may be based on a secure transfer program recognizing and identifying a signal from a NFC reader. For example a secure transfer program of a mobile communications device will recognize the context as a vending machine when the mobile communication device is held close enough to the vending machine and the mobile communications device receives a signal from the vending machine and identifies that signal as coming from a vending machine.

The description above refers to a mobile communication device capable of near field communications and a near field communication enabled mobile communication device or the like which is but is not limited to a mobile communication device that includes circuitry that enables the operation of near field communications i.e. reading writing and card emulation.

Additionally although not necessarily expressly stated in the embodiments and aspects of the invention described above a smartlink system is intended to generally include a mobile communications device with a smartlink module or smartlink module functionality and a smartlink server. In the preferred embodiments the smartlink server is a computer system which stores information of a user and can communicate with the mobile communication device of the user by cellular connection or other appropriate means. The smartlink server can communicate with third party computer systems e.g. of a seller or other third party to exchange information and or to provide and or receive payment.

Accordingly the invention is not to be considered as limited by the foregoing description but is only limited by the scope of the claims.

