---

title: Real time communications system
abstract: A computerized human communication arbitrating and distributing system, including a controller digital computer and a plurality of participator digital computers, each of the participator computers including an input device for receiving human-input information from a human user and an output device for presenting information to the user, each said user having a user identity. A connection, such as Internet, links the controller computer with each of the participator computers. Controller software runs on the controller computer to arbitrate in accordance with predefined rules including said user identity, which ones of the participator computers can interact in one of a plurality of groups through the controller computer and to distribute real time data to the respective ones of the groups. Participator software runs on each of the participator computers to handle a user interface permitting one said user to send a multimedia information message to the controller computer, which arbitrates which of the participator computers receive the multimedia information message and conveys the multimedia information message to the selected participator computers to present the multimedia information to the respective user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407356&OS=08407356&RS=08407356
owner: 
number: 08407356
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070809
---
The present patent application is a continuation of and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 399 578 filed by the same inventor on Sep. 20 1999 and incorporates by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 617 658 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 956 491 titled Group Communications Multiplexing System that was filed by the same inventor on Apr. 1 1996 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 780 352 filed by the same inventor on Jul. 19 2007 abandoned. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 399 578 filed Sep. 20 1999 is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 617 658 filed Apr. 1 1996 issuing as U.S. Pat. No. 5 956 491 on Sep. 21 1999.

This invention is directed to an apparatus a manufacture and methods for making and using the same in a field of digital electrical computer systems. More particularly the present invention is directed to a digital electrical computer system involving a plurality of participator computers linked by a network to at least one of a plurality of participator computers the participator computers operating in conjunction with the controller computer to handle multiplexing operations for communications involving groups of some of the participator computers.

Multiplexing group communications among computers ranges from very simple to very complex communications systems. At a simple level group communications among computers involves electronic mail sent in a one way transmission to all those in a group or subgroup using say a local area network. Arbitrating which computers receive electronic mail is a rather well understood undertaking.

On a more complex level corporations may link remote offices to have a conference by computer. A central computer can control the multiplexing of what appears as an electronic equivalent to a discussion involving many individuals.

Even more complex is linking of computers to communicate in what has become known as a chat room. Chat room communications can be mere text such as that offered locally on a file server or can involve graphics and certain multimedia capability as exemplified by such Internet service providers as America On Line. Multiplexing in multimedia is more complex for this electronic environment.

On the Internet chat room communications analogous to America On Line have not been developed at least in part because Internet was structured for one way communications analogous to electronic mail rather than for real time group chat room communications. Further unlike the an Internet service provider which has control over both the hardware platform and the computer program running on the platform to create the chat room there is no particular control over the platform that would be encountered on the Internet. Therefore development of multiplexing technology for such an environment has been minimal.

Even with an emergence of the World Wide Web which does have certain graphical multimedia capability sophisticated chat room communication multiplexing has been the domain of the Internet service providers. Users therefore have a choice between the limited audience of a particular Internet Service provider or the limited chat capability of the Internet.

It is an object of the present invention to overcome such limitations of the prior art and to advance and improve the technology of group computer multiplexing to enable better computerized group communications.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a computerized human communication arbitrating and distributing system.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a group communication multiplexing system involving a controller digital computer linked to a plurality of participator computers to organize communications by groups of the participator computers.

It is still another object of the present invention to link the controller computer and the plurality of computers with respective software coordinated to arbitrate multiplexing activities.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide a chat capability suitable for handling graphical textual and multimedia information in a platform independent manner.

These and other objects and utilities of the invention which apparent from the discussion herein are addressed by a computerized human communication arbitrating and distributing system. The system includes a controller digital electrical computer and a plurality of participator digital computers each of the participator computers including an input device for receiving human input information and an output device for presenting information to a user having a user identity. A connection such as the Internet links the controller computer with each of the participator computers.

Controller software runs on the controller computer programming the controller computer to arbitrate in accordance with predefined rules including said user identity which ones of the participator computers can interact in one of a plurality of groups communicating through the controller computer and to distribute real time data to the respective ones of the groups.

Participator software runs on each of the participator computers to program each of the participator computers to operate a user interface. The user interface permits one of the users to send and or receive a multimedia information message to the controller computer which arbitrates which of the participator computers receives the multimedia information message. The controller computer also conveys the multimedia information message to the selected participator computers to present the multimedia information to the respective user.

Therefore for a computer system involving a plurality of programmed participator computers running the participator computer program can interact through a programmed controller computer with the controller computer multiplexing the communications for groups formed from the plurality as well as arbitrating communications behavior.

In providing a detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the present invention reference is made to an appendix hereto including the following items.

Note that the appendix includes code for two different embodiments a Tellnet embodiment and a JAVA embodiment. Documentation and error messages help files log files are also included in the appendix. While platform controlled embodiments are within the scope of the invention it is particularly advantageous to have a platform independent embodiment i.e. an embodiment that is byte code compiled.

Referring now to the overall functioning of a computerized human communication arbitrating and distributing System of the present invention is shown with odd numbers designating hardware or programmed hardware and even numbers designating computer program logic and data flow. The System includes a digital Controller Computer such as an Internet service provider type computer. The Controller Computer is operating with an operating system.

System also includes a plurality of digital Participator Computers each of which may be an IBM compatible personal computer with a processor and a DOS operating system. Each of the Participator Computers includes an Input Device for receiving human input information from a respective human user. The Input Device can be for example a keyboard mouse or the like. Each of the Participator Computers also includes an Output Device for presenting information to the respective user. The Output Device can be a monitor printer such as a dot matrix or laser printer or preferably both are used. Each of the Participator Computers also includes a Memory such as a disk storage means.

The System includes a Connection located between so as to link the Controller Computer with each of the Participator Computers . The Connection can be an Internet or more particularly a World Wide Web connection.

The Controller Computer is running and under the control of Controller Software which directs the Controller Computer to arbitrate in accordance with predefined rules including a user identity which ones of the Participator Computers can interact in one of a plurality of groups through the Controller Computer and to distribute real time data to the respective ones of the groups.

The Participator Computers are each running and under the control of Participator Software which directs each of the Participator Computers to handle a user Interface permitting one said user to send a multimedia information Message to the Controller Computer which arbitrates which of the Participator Computers receives the multimedia information Message and which conveys the multimedia information Message to the selected participator computers to present the multimedia information Message to the respective user.

The present invention comprehends communicating all electrically communicable multimedia information as Message by such means as pointers for example URLs. URLs can point to pre stored audio and video communications which the Controller Computer can fetch and communicate to the Participator Computers .

Turning now to there is shown a communications overview of the present invention. Beginning with the Controller Computer Software reference is made to Block which illustrates demultiplexing and multiplexing operations carried out by message type on API messages of all types. Block links to Block which is illustrative of channel A . . . . Block also links to Block which illustrates handling private message A. Block also links to Block illustrative of handling out of band media. Block additionally links to Block which illustrates asynchronous status messages.

Multiple connections between the controller computer and a plurality of participator computers permit communication implemented via the interplay of controller software and participator software . With particular regard to the participator software illustrated in Block is illustrative of demultiplexing and multiplexing operations carried out by message type on API messages of all types. Block links to Block which is illustrative of channel A . . . . Block also links to Block which illustrates handling private message A. Block also links to Block illustrative of handling out of band media via Block which is illustrative of a Web browser or auxiliary computer program. Block also links to Block which illustrates asynchronous status message handling via Block illustrative of user interface objects windows and screens.

De multiplexing via API provides a virtual connection between Channel Private Message and Multimedia objects in the controller computer and each participator computer . An alternate architecture is to allow for a separate connection between each object so that multiplexing demultiplexing is not necessary and each object handles its own connection. This would influence system performance however.

Turning now to a data and communications dependency diagram controller group channel structure is illustrated. Beginning from what is designated as a portion of Block the logic flows to Block to consider JOIN LEAVE STATUS SETCHAN API instructions. Block examines member list maintenance instructions accessing Block to check permissions list users and change attributes. Note the exploded window shows a display of member information including a user s name personal information and attributes properties permissions operations involving the subsequently discussed tokens i.e. stored per channel attributes under each member. In any case confirmation or denial of access is communicated via Block for multiplexing return of status messages to a target object.

From the portion of Block the logic flows to Block for MESSAGE and MODMSG API instructions. Block tests which of the two instructions were received and for MODMSG the logic flows to Block which tests whether the user is a moderator. If the user is not a moderator the logic flows to Block which sends a denial message through Block . If however the in Block the user is a moderator the logic flows to Block for a repeat to all list members who are permitted to see the message via Block .

Returning to Block if MESSAGE is detected the logic flows to Block which tests whether a user has post permission. If the user has post permission the logic flows to Block etc. If the user does not have post permission the logic flows to Block to forward the message to moderators for approval via Block .

Additionally the logic flows from Block to Block for a URL API instruction. Block tests whether the user has graphical multimedia communication privileges and if not the logic flows via Block which sends a denial message via Block . Otherwise if the user does have graphical multimedia communications privileges in Block Block sends graphical multimedia information to all approved users via Block .

Turning now to central controller loop communications is illustrated. For the data on central poll point see Appendix POLL POINT a do loop begins at Block for each connection. Block tests whether bytes are available on the data stream. If they are the bytes are added to user space FIFO per connection at Block leading to Block which tests whether there are any more connections. Note that in if there are no more bytes available in Block the logic skips to Block and if Block is not finished with all connections the loop returns to Block . When all connections have been completed in Block the logic flows to Block which looks for an available complete data instruction for any connection by extracting packets byte wise from the FIFO. Thereafter Block tests whether there is a complete response available from the participator computer. If the response is complete the logic flows to Block which using a command type demultiplexes into an appropriate object output FIFOs may be filled here for any connection . The logic from Block joins the no branch from Block at Block which enables unblocking for writing connections for only connections with data available to write looping back to Block .

MODMSG is communicated to Block which sends the message to the moderation area of Block and then to Block to resubmit a member message as approved thereby conveying a MODMSG request to Block .

Note that a response is prepared in the response area of Block . If the response is a standard message it is conveyed to Block to compose the response into a controller message thereby sending a MESSAGE request to box . If however the message is a graphical information submission the logic flows from Block to Block to compose the graphical information submission into a controller message thereby sending a URL request to Block .

If the multimedia type is internally handlable from Block the logic flows to Block which tests whether this is a member associated image. If it is a member associated image Block displays the image next to member identity information and if it is not the logic flows to Block which tests if this is a member public data reference e.g. a URL . If a URL is detected at Block Block invokes an external data type viewer only on demand of the operator of the participator software and otherwise Block stores the reference for future use by the operator of the participator software or treats the reference as an externally handled multimedia type at the user s option .

With further regard to the manner of interaction between the controller computer and the participator computers and their respective computer programs and includes a moderation capability that is controlled or arbitrated pursuant to system recognizing user identity. Note that using the user identity for moderation purposes is a use additional to the use of the user identity for security purposes.

One embodiment of the present invention is to bring chat capability to the internet and World Wide Web. However another embodiment involves non internet relay chat. In either embodiment System is state driven such that synchronous and asynchronous messages can be communicated. For an asynchronous notification each message is sent through the system API which updates the information on the output device of the participator computers . For a synchronous notification a participator computer must interrogate the system for a message.

With regard to the arbitrating of the controller computer is directed by the controller computer program to use identity tokens which are pieces of information associated with user identity. The pieces of information are stored in memory in a control computer database along with personal information about the user such as the user s age. The control computer database serves as a repository of tokens for other programs to access thereby affording information to otherwise independent computer systems. In the database the storage of tokens can be by user group and content and distribution controls can also be placed on the user s tokens as well as the database.

Each token is used to control the ability of a user to gain access to other tokens in a token hierarchy arbitration process. The arbitration also includes controlling a user s ability to moderate communications involving a group or subgroup of the participator computers . Once in a group temporary tokens are assigned for priority to moderate submoderate groups a group is sometimes known as a channel in multiplexing terminology .

Accordingly tokens are used by the controller computer to control a user s group priority and moderation privileges as well as controlling who joins the group who leaves the group and the visibility of members in the group. Visibility refers to whether a user is allowed to know another user is in the chat group.

Tokens are also used to permit a user s control of identity and in priority contests between 2 users for example a challenge as to whether a first user can see a second user.

Censorship which broadly encompasses control of what is said in a group is also arbitrated by means of the tokens. Censorship can control of access to system by identity of the user which is associated with the user s tokens. By checking the tokens a user s access can be controlled per group as well as in giving group priority moderation privileges etc.

Censorship also can use the tokens for real time control of data ascii text video audio from and to users as well as control over multimedia URLs quantity type and subject.

With regard to controlling communications in a group which is in essence a collection of user identities control extends to seeing messages seeing the user regulating the size of the communication as well as the ability to see and write to a specific user. Control further extends to the ability to send multimedia messages.

Note that tokens for members in group can involve multiples formed in real time say within the span of a conversation. For example for private communication tokens are immediately formed to define a group of 2 users. Hierarchical groups within groups can also be formed with each inheriting the properties of the group before it. Thus a subgroup can include up to all members or more by adding any surplus to the former group.

With further regard to the controller computer e.g. a server information is controlled for distribution to the user interfaces at selected ones of the participator computers . The controller computer program in one embodiment can be a resident program interface such as a JAVA application . There can be a token editor object window tear down etc. per group private communication user channel listings user listings etc. Each can link up in a token hierarchy for arbitration control.

The controller computer by means of the controller computer program keeps track of states and asynchronous messages as well as generating a synchronous message as a user logs in or interrogates system .

With regard to multimedia information messages such messages are of independent data types e.g. audio video data types. The content of the message e.g. a URL permits the System to automatically determine the handling of the message either the Controller Computer passes the content of Message directly or the Controller Computer determines from the Message how to find the content say via Netscape. Accordingly Message can communicate video and sound or other multimedia e.g. a URL to users subject only to the server arbitration controls over what can be sent.

Turning now to an illustration of using the invention the session starts with verifying the user s identity at . The login password screen is shown and the user enters his her assigned login password combination and clicks the Login To Chat button. If the password was entered correctly a confirmation box appears on the screen.

Then the channel list area is shown at . The Channel List area is a window which shows a list of all of the groups currently on the server in active communication. Because no one is yet connected in this example there are no groups currently available on the screen.

To create a new group the New Channel option is selected from a pull down menu at . The name of the channel is entered by the input device .

If the user has permission this one does a new channel is created for the group at . The window that displays the channel area has three regions the bottom region where responses are entered the largest region where a transcript of the communication is followed and the rightmost region which lists the group s current members. This list is continuously updated with asynchronously generated status messages received immediately when a new member joins the group. Only DMARKS is currently in this group. The MWU is the properties currently associated with DMARKS the ability to moderate write to the channel and send multimedia messages.

A new member has joined the channel and the member list status area is updated right away at . This new member has a login of ME. 

The user DMARKS now types hello there into the response area and presses RETURN at . This message is passed to the controller computer which sends the message to all channel members i.e. those using participator computers including DMARKS.

The user ME now sends a message to the controller hi there at . This message is also sent to all members by the controller computer . Now user DMARKS clicks using input device a mouse on the name of the user ME in the member list window. The participator software will now create a private message window so that the users ME and DMARKS can exchange private messages. Private messages are only sent to the intended recipient by the controller and no one else.

A private message window appears in response to DMARKS s request to open private communications with ME at . Now DMARKS types a message into the private message window s response area to ME this message is seen only by the user ME. When complete the participator software will forward this message to the controller computer .

In response the user ME has entered This is the private message response that is only seen by the user DMARKS which has been forwarded to user DMARKS at . This message is displayed immediately on DMARKS s window.

DMARKS now returns to the channel window for the group TESTCHANNEL at . To modify the permission attributes associated with user ME on the channel TEST CHANNEL DMARKS who is a moderator of the channel clicks on the user ME in the member list to select ME pulls down the Moderator menu and selects Toggle Moderator. This removes the moderator privileges from ME.

As a result of the attribute revocation the M has disappeared from next to ME s name in the member list at indicating that the property is no longer associated with the user ME.

Now DMARKS returns to the Channel List window at . DMARKS wishes to fully moderate the contents of the channel TESTCHANNEL censoring all unwanted communications to the channel. DMARKS returns to the channel list and selects the channel TESTCHANNEL by clicking on its name in the channel list.

Now DMARKS selects the Toggle All Posting option in the Maintenance pull down menu at . This will turn off the channel property posting or sending communications to the channel without moderator approval which will be indicated by the removal of the letter P from next to the name TESTCHANNEL at .

Now the letter P is removed from after the name TESTCHANNEL in the Channel List window at indicating that this channel is now moderated and will only have free posting ability by designated members.

Now type user ME who is also on channel TESTCHANNEL wishes to send communications this will not be written directly to the channel at . The controller instead of sending it immediately to the channel to be seen by all members will instead forward the message to the moderators for approval. The moderator DMARKS will then see the message on the Moderation Window which provides a preview of any messages to be sent. To approve a message for general viewing DMARKS now clicks on the message.

Now that DMARKS has clicked directly on the message it is displayed inside the group s Channel window for all members to see at .

DMARKS now wishes to send a graphical multimedia message. This implementation sends graphical multimedia images by allowing a channel member to specify an Internet URL of a graphical multimedia resource to be presented to the group members. In this example DMARKS wishes to send the URL http www.ais.net corresponding to the World Wide Web home page of American Information Systems Inc. to the channel members. DMARKS enters the URL into the response window and selects Send URL from the Moderator pull down menu at .

The controller computer now passes the URL to the channel members. This participator software performs two actions in response to the graphical multimedia display request. The first is to put the name of the URL onto the transcript of the group s channel so that it can be read by group members. The second response is to have the participator software show the data associated with the graphical multimedia message in a human interpretable way at . To do this the participator software either uses built in rules to decide how the graphical multimedia data is to be presented or locates another program suitable to present the data. In this case the software is utilizing Netscape Navigator a program for displaying graphical multimedia documents specified by a URL at . Inside the Navigator window the graphical multimedia content the home page of AIS is shown.

Finally DMARKS wishes to manually modify the attribute tokens associated with the user at . The user invokes the Property Editor dialog which allows the user to view and change the tokens associated with a user. A property of a given user is determined by the Identifier and Property names. An old value of the property is shown and a token value can be changed in the New Value field. With this property editor a user with sufficient permissions tokens can change any of the tokens or security parameters of any user or a user s ability to change security parameters can be restricted.

To start with an alternate embodiment using a text based interface a user is presented by the login password screen at . This screen is where a user enters the information that proves his her identity. The user must now enter his her login and password to identify themselves.

After the user has been identified by the controller the Channel List screen appears at . The names of channels and their associated properties are shown on this screen. By using the arrow keys and highlighting the desired channel ME may enter any publicly joinable group. Currently there is only one group TESTCHANNEL which ME will join.

Now the screen for the channel TESTCHANNEL appears at . The screen is split into four regions. The bottom left region is the response line where messages users wish to enter appear. The upper left region is the transcript area where the communications of the group s channel appear as they occur. The upper right region is the Member List region where a continuously updated list of members names appear with their attributes.

A message appears in the transcript area. The controller has forwarded a message to the group from DMARKS hello there at which is seen by all members of the group including ME. Now ME will respond by entering hi there into the response area.

When ME is finished entering his response the participator software forwards the response to the controller which sends it to the members of the channel. In the transcript area the participator software notifies the user that it has received a private message from DMARKS which is waiting inside the private message screen. To see the private message ME presses the private message screen hot key.

A private message screen appears at and the private message from DMARKS is at the bottom of the transcript area. Now to reply ME types his response into the response area.

Now ME will return to the screen for the channel TESTCHANNEL. The member list area has changed because DMARKS has revoked ME s moderator permission. ME is no longer permitted to see the permissions of other users so this information has been removed from his display at . The only information he can see now is who is moderator at . A next to the identifier of a member of the group indicates the member is a moderator of the group. ME is no longer a moderator and therefore a does not appear the identifier ME.

To further exemplify the use of the present invention the following is a transcript of communications produced in accordance herewith.

POWERQUALITY SKLEIN In assessing network security against outage the first contingencies are tested to see how the power system should be reconfigured to avoid getting a second contingency and cascading into an outage.

POWERQUALITY MSTEARS These outages point out the need for reliability as part of the overall customer picture of PQ

POWERQUALITY TKEY ieee 519 limits the harmonic current a customer can inject back into the pcc and limit the vthd the utility provides at the PCC

POWERQUALITY MSTEARS For critical facilities dual feeds or other backup capability need to be economically evaluated to keep the facility in operation

POWERQUALITY JOHNMUNG question please comment on frequency of complaints involving spikes sags or harmonics

POWERQUALITY WARD Surges is probably next harmonics really don t cause that many problems although they are certainly there.

POWERQUALITY TKEY Agree they are the most frequent sags and the panel sesion on the cost of voltage sags at PES drew people

POWERQUALITY SAM harmonics tend to be an interior problem within a facility rather than on the distribution system

POWERQUALITY WARD The best solution is making the equipment less susceptible to sags. This requires working with the manufacturers.

POWERQUALITY MSTEARS The complaint of surges covers many things in the customers eyes sags have become a real problem because they are harder to resolve

POWERQUALITY GRAVELY John The latest EPRI results confirms the 90 of the time SGS are the problem and short term ones.

POWERQUALITY WARD Each problem can be dealt with as it occurs but the time involved gets very expensive.

POWERQUALITY JOHNMUNG making equipment less susceptible causes legal problems for manufacturers as each improvemnt can be cited by compinant as example of malfeasance

POWERQUALITY WARD AndyV The cost to the manufacturer increases. The overall cost to everyone involved decreases.

POWERQUALITY TKEY customer pays any way you cut it if the eqpt is more immune customers pay only once instead of every time the process fails

POWERQUALITY SKLEIN Is the customer capable of resolving the fingerpointing among the manufacturers and utilities 

POWERQUALITY DDORR andy only if the end userss create a market for pq compatible eqpt by demanding better products

POWERQUALITY MSTEARS The manufacturers problems in including fixes is being competative with some who doesn t provide the fix

POWERQUALITY GRAVELY Is it possible to have a basic theme topic or some core questions for 15 Nov chat 

POWERQUALITY WARD Stan the customer cannot be expected to resolve the fingerpointing. The manufacturers and utilities need to work together.

POWERQUALITY SKLEIN If electric power is going to be treated as a fungible commodity there has to be a definition. Like everyone knows what number 2 heating oil is.

POWERQUALITY SAM Ideally a manufacturer would not be able to compete if they don t add the protective function in their products but alot more public education is required before we get to this point.

POWERQUALITY WARD Andy there are many ways to educate the customers but they require a lot of contact between the utility and the customers. The Western Resources Power Technology Center in Wichita is doing it just as an example.

POWERQUALITY DDORR standard power vs premium power is one solution as is std qpt vs Pq compatible eqpt

POWERQUALITY SKLEIN I want to buy number 2 electric power and to be able to check the nameplates of my appliances to be sure they can take it. Just like I buy regular gasoline.

POWERQUALITY MSTEARS Sam I agree that is partly the utilities responsibilitysince we serve the customers

POWERQUALITY SKLEIN I used the analogy of number 2 heating oil. I don t know what number 1 heating oil is.

POWERQUALITY DDORR Number two has cap switching and all the normal utility operational events while number one is much better

POWERQUALITY SAM mike yes a joint effort between the utiliy manufacturer and standards juristictions is a goal for utilicorp as we move forward with offering from our strategic marketing partners and bring PQ technologies to the public

POWERQUALITY TKEY We are finding that many mfgrs want to produce pq compatible equipment but they have no clue as to what to test for

POWERQUALITY SKLEIN You can t have a commodity product with all the variation in specifications we have been discussing. It has to be regular premium and super premium or it won t work.

POWERQUALITY JOHNMUNG Tom as a former manufacturer i sympathize your work at PEAC is invaluable but anecdotal knowledge from utility people on the firing line is equally important

POWERQUALITY SKLEIN This is what I meant earlier by electricity being a non virtualizable service. You can t make each customer see the power system as though they had their own dedicated generating plant.

POWERQUALITY MSTEARS PQ for facilities need to be done with a system perspective to to get the right resolution

POWERQUALITY BBOYER Andy s question is still relevant how do stop a facility from downgrading utility service to other customers 

POWERQUALITY WARD You work with that customer to do whatever is needed to correct their disturbances.

POWERQUALITY JOHNMUNG as a key to hardening it helps to identify the most sensitive circuits i.e. microprocessor logic test for vulnerability under common surges sags rfi and then notify users that their equipment contains these subsystems for a start POWERQUALITY BRIAN hI DOUG POWERQUALITY GRAVELY Brian Are you saving this session as a file Can we get a list of chat session participants POWERQUALITY BRIAN s we may POWERQUALITY DMARKS gravely hit TAB and use the arrow keys to page through the list of participants POWERQUALITY SKLEIN Will the session be available for downloading POWERQUALITY BRIAN yes Mike we will publish in PQ Magazine POWERQUALITY WARD Part of the agreement for high quality power should be that the customer receiving the power will not disturb the utility system. POWERQUALITY BRIAN if john let s us . . . . POWERQUALITY GRAVELY I tried that however netcruiser has a software problem and I cannot see all of the names. POWERQUALITY SAM most utilities rules and regulations already require that a customer not put anything back out on the utility system POWERQUALITY BRIAN MIKE G. WE WILL PUBLISH THIS IN PQ MAG NEXT MONTH IF ASNDY US POWERQUALITY BRIAN HOW ABOUT IT ANDY POWERQUALITY ANDYV ok POWERQUALITY BRIAN COOL POWERQUALITY WARD Standards will have to be set for what constitutes a disturbance and then the utility should work with customers install filters etc. to be sure they stay within the rules. POWERQUALITY BRIAN THANKS ANDY POWERQUALITY ANDYV a meeting review or a sumary of events POWERQUALITY GRAVELY It would be good to take a few minutes to recommend how the 15 Nov session could be more effective. POWERQUALITY BRIAN A SYNAPSE OF THIS CHAT WILL BE IN NEXT MONTHS PQ MAG POWERQUALITY WINDSONG POWERQUALITY SKLEIN I don t get PQ mag. Will it be on the Net POWERQUALITY BRIAN STAN SIGN UP FOR IT ON OUR HOME PAGE POWERQUALITY DOUGC the transcript of this conference will be available on the EnergyOne pages. POWERQUALITY BRIAN YOU CAN SIGN UP ON LINE POWERQUALITY BRIAN HTTP WWW.UTILICORP.COM POWERQUALITY WINDSONG Good comment Gravely Comments from the users would be greatly appreciated POWERQUALITY SAM PQ magazine is available online on the UCU Internet bulletin board http www.utilicorp.com POWERQUALITY ANDYV or link from powerquality.com POWERQUALITY BRIAN YOU CAN GET A FREE MAG SUBSCRIPTION FROM UTILICORP S HOME PAGE POWERQUALITY SKLEIN Thanks POWERQUALITY BRIAN ALSO THERE IS A PQ FORUM ON OUR HOME PAGE POWERQUALITY JOHNMUNG for nov 15 shall we pick five key topics suggest health care energy storage rfi emc as a few topics also new gas turbine 25 kw generator just announce today just some suggestions POWERQUALITY BRIAN GOOD SUGGESTION JOHN POWERQUALITY ANDYV lets develop an outline of topics for next time. POWERQUALITY BRIAN OK POWERQUALITY GRAVELY One suggestion for 15 Nov Have participants place a list of desired topics on your other chat box and prioritize by interest level. POWERQUALITY SKLEIN How about deregulation and retail wheeling. POWERQUALITY BRIAN COMMENTS SHOULD BE SENT TO ME BY EMAIL POWERQUALITY BRIAN BSPENCER UTILICORP.COM POWERQUALITY BRIAN 15 minutes remaining POWERQUALITY ANDYZYREK Let s discuss the new standard IEEE 1159. POWERQUALITY ANDYV may be we could generate an online questionaire to see what people are needing discussed. POWERQUALITY BRIAN but the chat is available for 24 hrs day 7 days a week POWERQUALITY ANDYV what does IEEE1159 address POWERQUALITY BRIAN Please send all suggestion to me for our next chat POWERQUALITY BRIAN Bobbin is not banned now POWERQUALITY BRIAN my fault POWERQUALITY ANDYZYREK New PQ measuring techniques. We have not received our issue yet. POWERQUALITY ANDYV You should have it my now. POWERQUALITY BRIAN Bobbin is not banned anymore POWERQUALITY ANDYV you can e mail me or john at editors powerquality.com POWERQUALITY BRIAN is two hours right fdo rhtis feature POWERQUALITY JOHNMUNG do i understand that many programmable logic controllers can be hardened by addition of simple CVT like a sola POWERQUALITY ANDYZYREK Yes but it is being delivered by snail mail. POWERQUALITY ANDYV no 2nd class POWERQUALITY BRIAN 15 minutes to go POWERQUALITY ANDYV Please e mail me you complete name and addess and I will mail you one today 1st class . . . now is that serice or what POWERQUALITY BRIAN Is two hours long enough for tthis chat POWERQUALITY TKEY Im back POWERQUALITY WARD Brian I think two hours is about right. POWERQUALITY BRIAN hi tom POWERQUALITY BRIAN good . . . POWERQUALITY ANDYV yes I agree 2 hrs POWERQUALITY BRIAN anyone else POWERQUALITY ANDYV it the time of day correct POWERQUALITY BRIAN questions now . . . . POWERQUALITY SKLEIN The topic foremost in my mind right now is what to eat for lunch. I enjoyed the discussion which I understand has been historic in some sense. But I think I will sign off now and go eat. POWERQUALITY SAM 2 hours seems to work very well POWERQUALITY DANIELH time of day is good POWERQUALITY BILLMANN 2 hrs is fine POWERQUALITY MSTEARS Two hours work well the middle of the day allows east and west coast to be involved POWERQUALITY BRIAN good Will everyone be back for the next chat POWERQUALITY GRAVELY Brian I will forward my recommendations on email thanks. POWERQUALITY BILLMANN yes i ll be back POWERQUALITY ANDYZYREK Brian would it be possible to have a forum published on your home page prior to Nov 15. POWERQUALITY BRIAN I would like to do another chat before Nov 15th any thoughts POWERQUALITY ANDY U bet POWERQUALITY SAM I believe that this chat may set an attendance record for most participants during a first session POWERQUALITY JOHNMUNG a parting thought harmonics make the music rich they make the tone insprinng harmonics in your power line WILL BLOW THE BUILDINGS WIRING tIM MUNGENAST POWERQUALITY BRIAN Your re all invited to return POWERQUALITY BRIAN the next chat POWERQUALITY BRIAN This chat feature will help set standards of how we view our industry POWERQUALITY WARD For me this was two hours very well spent and it was quite enjoyable. POWERQUALITY BRIAN Tell a colleague about our chat Nov 15th POWERQUALITY BRIAN Thanks Ward POWERQUALITY BRIAN I would like to do this on a weekly basis any thoughts yet POWERQUALITY GRAVELY John talk it up in Germany POWERQUALITY ANDY I would like to thank utilicorp and everyone envolved. POWERQUALITY BRIAN Thanks Andy for your help POWERQUALITY WARD Did this notice go out to the Power Globe mailing list POWERQUALITY BRIAN No but could help us Ward with that POWERQUALITY BRIAN Lets all get the word out about this chat POWERQUALITY WARD I m on the list and will be glad to forward anything you wish to it. POWERQUALITY BRIAN Please use it whenver you wish even schedule your own chats whenver POWERQUALITY JOHNMUNG MANY THANKS TO UTILICORP AND ALL INVOLVED FROM AN OLD STEAM BOATER POWERQUALITY BRIAN thanks ward POWERQUALITY BRIAN Hi duane POWERQUALITY BRIAN This chat is officially over but do stick around for more chatting POWERQUALITY BRIAN Thanks to all cya on Nov 15th POWERQUALITY MSTEARS Ward Tom and John I appreciate your participation POWERQUALITY BRIAN Thanks Guys and Ladies POWERQUALITY SWPPD WHAT IS HAPPENING ON NOV. 15 POWERQUALITY BRIAN our next chat with a panel of experts POWERQUALITY BRIAN topic yet to be decided POWERQUALITY DPSWOBO Hi Brian Sorry I was on the phone and could not respond right away. Did I get the time incorrectly for the chat POWERQUALITY BRIAN please send us a suggestions POWERQUALITY ANDY good bye POWERQUALITY BRIAN Yeah but stick around to chat with some friends POWERQUALITY BRIAN We had a total of 50 people and avg of 20 people at one time POWERQUALITY BRIAN Thanks everyone Lunch Time POWERQUALITY BRIAN Next Chat Nov 15th at 10 12 ct POWERQUALITY BRIAN But this chat line is available 24 hrs day 7 days a week POWERQUALITY BRIAN Please use it whenever POWERQUALITY GRAVELY Thanks to the panel and Utilicorp for the session POWERQUALITY BRIAN Talk to your collegues and friends about any particular topic POWERQUALITY BRIAN Come see our home page for new topics and chats POWERQUALITY BRIAN http www.utilicorp.com POWERQUALITY BRIAN Thanks Power Quality Assurance Magazine and All our panel members POWERQUALITY BRIAN POWERQUALITY SWPPD MISSED THIS SESSION. ICAN WE GET HARD COPY INFO POWERQUALITY BRIAN yes swwp it will be published in pq mag and our home page POWERQUALITY BRIAN catch our next session on nov 15th POWERQUALITY BRIAN 10 12 ct POWERQUALITY SWPPD THANKS A BUNCH POWERQUALITY SWPPD GOOD BYE POWERQUALITY BRIAN no prob POWERQUALITY BRIAN cya POWERQUALITY DESWETT POWERQUALITY TKEY Good session brian ddorr and I will be signing off now look forward to the next session POWERQUALITY DPSWOBO Thanks for the info on the next session we will get on next time POWERQUALITY DMARKS I hope everyone enjoyed this session. POWERQUALITY MSTEARS I am logging off Thanks POWERQUALITY SAM This is Tony and I am watching the action . . . we made history. Great work guys. POWERQUALITY BRIAN Lunch time POWERQUALITY BRIAN Next chat is nov 15th POWERQUALITY BRIAN 10 12ct POWERQUALITY BRIAN please continuie to look at utilicorp s hp POWERQUALITY BRIAN for more info POWERQUALITY BRIAN email if you have any questions regarding the chat POWERQUALITY BRIAN bspencer utilicorp.com POWERQUALITY BRIAN later SUPPORT BRIAN hi guys SUPPORT BRIAN success SUPPORT BRIAN yess SUPPORT BRIAN thanks for the help SUPPORT BRIAN cya POWERQUALITY BRIAN next chat on Nov 15th POWERQUALITY BRIAN 10 12 ct POWERQUALITY BRIAN any suggestion on topics please contact me by email POWERQUALITY BRIAN bspencer utilicorp.com POWERQUALITY BRIAN hi chuck POWERQUALITY BRIAN hi randy POWERQUALITY CPREECS hello brian POWERQUALITY BRIAN How are you chuck POWERQUALITY CPREECS how has the participation been POWERQUALITY BRIAN I am sorry you missed the offical chat but do come back at any time for some chatting POWERQUALITY BRIAN great 20 people avg. 50 total people POWERQUALITY CPREECS yes i got some conflicting info POWERQUALITY BRIAN transcripts will be in PQ mag next month and on utilicorp s home page POWERQUALITY CPREECS what were the topics discussed POWERQUALITY BRIAN how is that chuck POWERQUALITY BRIAN power quality standards POWERQUALITY BRIAN retail wheeling POWERQUALITY BRIAN cya lunch time POWERQUALITY CPREECS later POWERQUALITY BRIAN bye all POWERQUALITY BRIAN email me chuck POWERQUALITY RB sorry I missed it. I got 12 2 est off the net. bye. POWERQUALITY BRIAN sorry RB POWERQUALITY BRIAN miss information POWERQUALITY BRIAN next chat is 10 12 POWERQUALITY BRIAN ct POWERQUALITY BRIAN nov 15th POWERQUALITY BRIAN bye POWERQUALITY RB thanks POWERQUALITY BRIAN no prob tell all POWERQUALITY ANDY Is anyone still here talking about power quality POWERQUALITY DAVE Just signed on that is what I was trying to find out POWERQUALITY ANDY the PQ chat was running from 11 00 1 00est POWERQUALITY ANDY Were you involved then POWERQUALITY DAVE No I just got a chance to sign on now POWERQUALITY ANDY there were some great discussions. POWERQUALITY ANDY The transcripts will be available to down load at utilicorp.com Brian Spencer says. POWERQUALITY ANDY What is your experience in PQ POWERQUALITY DAVE That is what I was looking for are they available to down load now I work in a data center and have worked with UPS systems for about 12 years POWERQUALITY DAVE I did field service for Exide POWERQUALITY ANDY Brian just went to Lunch in KS I don t know when it will availalbe. POWERQUALITY DAVE Thanks for the Info on the downloads I hope they do this again POWERQUALITY ANDY so do I. POWERQUALITY DAVE What is your experience on PQ POWERQUALITY ANDY I am the editor or Power quality mag. POWERQUALITY DAVE Good mag. I pick up alot in it POWERQUALITY ANDY do your receive power quality assurance magazine POWERQUALITY ANDY great glad to hear it. POWERQUALITY DAVE We get it at work but I have asked to have it sent to my home POWERQUALITY ANDY did you get the latest issue witht the lighting on the cover POWERQUALITY DAVE Not yet have seen it on line though POWERQUALITY ANDY great. POWERQUALITY ANDY any suggestion for editorial POWERQUALITY DAVE POWERQUALITY DAVE no it is good POWERQUALITY ANDY ok. POWERQUALITY ANDY I am currently editing an article about VRLA battery charging. POWERQUALITY DAVE I am working on a resonant problem with Utility and was looking for info POWERQUALITY ANDY explain POWERQUALITY ANDY by the way my e mail is andy powerquality.com POWERQUALITY DAVE we are running a lot of 5th har. across our system in a large data center POWERQUALITY ANDY I see POWERQUALITY ANDY I will try to address this in an upcomming issue. may be march april or even sooner. POWERQUALITY DAVE we have 4800 kw of UPS cap on two transformers and we have alot of 5th on our other boards POWERQUALITY ANDY If you are interested in writing up a case history including you solutions I would like to review it and poss. publish POWERQUALITY MSTONEHAM Is this chat session still active POWERQUALITY ANDY YES POWERQUALITY ANDY We can nt get enough POWERQUALITY DAVE when we can get it fixed It looks like we have a problem with input filtering on a couple of UPS s POWERQUALITY ANDY input fro the utility or a generator POWERQUALITY DAVE utility POWERQUALITY MSTONEHAM I understand there was a chat session earlier today with some guest chatters . Is there an archive of the discussion since I missed it POWERQUALITY DAVE we have 66 kv to 12 kv then to 480 v by 4 trans on property POWERQUALITY ANDY What are you leaning towards in a solution dave POWERQUALITY ANDY MTONEHAM yes but I don t know when. contact BSPENCER utilicorp.com POWERQUALITY DAVE the computer seem to have no problem but we have alot of motor heating bad PF POWERQUALITY MSTONEHAM Thanks POWERQUALITY DAVE we currently are working with a consultant but I am looking for more info POWERQUALITY ANDY will capacitors solve your problem POWERQUALITY ANDY POWERQUALITY ANDY there also is a forum under utilicorp.com where you can post you questions. POWERQUALITY DAVE Each 600 kw UPS has Input filtering may need trap for 5th POWERQUALITY ANDY or you can access it form powerquality.com POWERQUALITY DAVE thanks POWERQUALITY ANDY Talk to ya later dave POWERQUALITY DAVE is PQ.com your Mag POWERQUALITY ANDY bye POWERQUALITY DAVE bye POWERQUALITY ANDY yes POWERQUALITY DAVE thanks POWERQUALITY ANDY POWERQUALITY MSTONEHAM POWERQUALITY MSTONEHAM Is anyone else hear There doesn t seem to be much traffic. POWERQUALITY MSTONEHAM POWERQUALITY CILCOJRG Hello is the conference over POWERQUALITY CILCOJRG POWERQUALITY CILCOJRG hello POWERQUALITY BRIAN yes POWERQUALITY BRIAN the conference was from 10 12 ct POWERQUALITY BRIAN someone gave out the wrong information POWERQUALITY BRIAN hello cilco POWERQUALITY BRIAN anyone still there SUPPORT BRIAN hi all SUPPORT BRIAN anyone there POWERQUALITY BRIAN jenny are you there POWERQUALITY CJBOUTCHER is anyone here a utility employee POWERQUALITY BRIAN Hi chris POWERQUALITY BRIAN how are you POWERQUALITY CJBOUTCHER hi brian it is quiet in here POWERQUALITY BRIAN the conference was at 10 00ct POWERQUALITY CJBOUTCHER ah I see POWERQUALITY CJBOUTCHER when is the next one POWERQUALITY BRIAN nov 15th POWERQUALITY BRIAN 10 12 POWERQUALITY BRIAN ct POWERQUALITY CJBOUTCHER is the channel open at other times POWERQUALITY BRIAN yes 24 hours a day POWERQUALITY CJBOUTCHER but not much discussion POWERQUALITY BRIAN not right now POWERQUALITY BRIAN cya POWERQUALITY CJBOUTCHER bye POWERQUALITY BRIAN hi jenny POWERQUALITY JOSH hello POWERQUALITY BRIAN hi dan POWERQUALITY BRIAN hi dan POWERQUALITY BRIAN are you awake yet POWERQUALITY BRIAN just giving present this a.m. POWERQUALITY BRIAN POWERQUALITY BRIAN who is guest96 POWERQUALITY GUEST96 test

While a particular embodiment of the present invention has been disclosed it is to be understood that various different modifications are possible and are within the true spirit of the invention the scope of which is to be determined with reference to the claims set forth below. There is no intention therefore to limit the invention to the exact disclosure presented herein as a teaching of one embodiment of the invention.

