---

title: Polyester for toner
abstract: A polyester for a toner, obtainable by polycondensing an alcohol component and a carboxylic acid component containing a fumaric acid-modified rosin; and a toner containing the polyester for a toner. The polyester for a toner of the present invention is usable as a resin binder for a toner usable in, for example, developing electrostatic latent images formed in electrophotography, electrostatic recording method, electrostatic printing method or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08383765&OS=08383765&RS=08383765
owner: Kao Corporation
number: 08383765
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070416
---
The present invention relates to a polyester for a toner usable as a resin binder for a toner usable in for example developing latent images formed in electrophotography electrostatic recording method electrostatic printing method or the like and a toner containing the polyester.

With the development of electrophotographic techniques a toner having excellent low temperature fixing ability and storage ability blocking resistance has been required. A toner containing a linear polyester resin of which physical properties such as a molecular weight are defined see Patent Publication 1 a toner containing a nonlinear cross linked polyester resin in which a rosin is used as an acid component in the polyester see Patent Publication 2 a toner with improved fixing ability in which a rosin modified with maleic acid is used see Patent Publication 3 and the like have been reported. In addition a toner containing a low molecular weight polyester in which an aliphatic alcohol is used as a monomer as an alcohol component and a high molecular weight polyester has been reported see Patent Publication 4 .

The present invention relates to a polyester for a toner obtainable by polycondensing an alcohol component and a carboxylic acid component containing a fumaric acid modified rosin and a toner containing the polyester for a toner.

However with further progress in speeding up and energy conservation of the machine in the recent years it has been found that conventional resin binders for toners do not sufficiently meet the demands of the market. In other words it has become very difficult to maintain a sufficient fixing strength due to the shortening of a fixing time in the fixing step and lowering of a temperature of a heating temperature fed from the fixing device.

On the other hand if a softening point of a resin is tried to be lowered or the like in order to increase low temperature fixing ability the lowering of a glass transition temperature inevitably accompanies whereby resulting in worsening of storage ability such as undesired aggregation of the toner.

In addition while the rosin usable in Patent Publication 2 or Patent Publication 3 is effective in the improvement of low temperature fixing ability a further improvement for storage ability is in demand and at the same time there is a disadvantage that an odor is more likely to be generated depending upon the kinds of the rosins.

Further although the polyester in which the aliphatic alcohol is used has excellent fixing ability there is a disadvantage that the resins are fused during the pulverization because its pulverizability is too excellent so that the productivity is rather worsened.

The present invention relates to a polyester for a toner having excellent low temperature fixing ability storage ability and durability and having reduced generation of an odor and a toner containing the polyester. Further the present invention relates to a polyester for a toner not only having excellent low temperature fixing ability storage ability and durability but also having excellent offset resistance and pulverizability and a toner containing the polyester.

The toner containing the polyester for a toner of the present invention exhibits excellent effects of having excellent low temperature fixing ability storage ability and durability and having reduced generation of an odor. In addition in a case of a toner obtained by using the polyester of the present invention obtained from an alcohol component containing an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol in addition to the above mentioned effects the toner exhibits excellent offset resistance and pulverizability.

A significant feature in the polyester for a toner obtainable by polycondensing an alcohol component and a carboxylic acid component of the present invention resides in that the carboxylic acid component contains a fumaric acid modified rosin. Since the polyester contains a fumaric acid modified rosin fixing can be carried out at a very low temperature whereby improving storage ability and durability. A maleic acid modified rosin obtained by modification with maleic acid which is a conventionally used modified rosin has three functional groups the modified rosin functions as a cross linking agent. Therefore a polyester obtained from a carboxylic acid component containing a large amount of a conventionally used maleic acid modified rosin in order to increase the fixing ability contains a low molecular weight component that worsens durability in a large amount while containing a large amount of a high molecular component effective in durability so that its durability is insufficient. On the other hand if the amount of the maleic acid modified rosin is reduced the low temperature fixing ability of the resulting polyester is lowered. However the fumaric acid modified rosin usable in the present invention has a very high glass transition temperature Tg as compared to the conventional rosin and the maleic acid modified rosin so that a low molecular weight component is reduced therefore it is presumed that surprising effects that low temperature fixing ability and contradictory physical properties thereto such as offset resistance and storage ability can be satisfied are exhibited.

The fumaric acid modified rosin in the present invention refers to a rosin modified with fumaric acid and obtained by an addition reaction of fumaric acid to a rosin of which main component is abietic acid neoabietic acid palustric acid pimaric acid isopimaric acid sandaracopimaric acid dehydroabietic acid levopimaric acid or the like. Specifically the modified rosin can be obtained through a Diels Alder reaction between levopimaric acid abietic acid neoabietic acid and palustric acid having a conjugated double bond in the main component of the rosin and fumaric acid while heating.

The rosin has a modification degree with fumaric acid fumaric acid modified degree of preferably from 5 to 105 more preferably from 20 to 105 and even more preferably from 40 to 105 and even more preferably from 60 to 105 from the viewpoint of increasing a molecular weight of the polyester thereby increasing its glass transition temperature.

wherein Xis a SP value of a fumaric acid modified rosin of which modified degree is calculated Xis a SP value of a fumaric acid modified rosin obtainable by reacting one mol of fumaric acid and 0.7 mol of a rosin and Y is a SP value of the rosin.

Here the SP value means a softening point as determined with a ring and ball type automatic softening point tester described later. The molecule of the formula A means an increased degree of a SP value of the rosin modified with fumaric acid where the larger the value of the formula A the higher the degree of modification.

The fumaric acid modified rosin has a glass transition temperature of preferably from 40 to 90 C. more preferably from 45 to 85 C. and even more preferably from 50 to 80 C. from the viewpoint of increasing the storage ability of the resulting polyester.

A method for producing a fumaric acid modified rosin is not particularly limited. For example a fumaric acid modified rosin can be obtained by the steps of mixing a rosin and fumaric and heating to a temperature of 180 to 260 C. or so to carry out a Diels Alder reaction thereby adding meth acrylic acid to an acid containing a conjugated double bond contained in the rosin.

Further it is preferable that the rosin and the fumaric acid are allowed to react in the presence of a phenol from the viewpoint of efficiently reacting the rosin and the fumaric acid. The phenol is preferably a dihydric phenol and a phenolic compound having at least a substituent at an ortho position to the hydroxyl group hereinafter referred to as a hindered phenol and the hindered phenol is more preferred.

The dihydric phenol means a compound in which two OH groups are bonded to a benzene ring but other substituents are not bonded thereto and hydroquinone is preferred.

The hindered phenol includes mono t butyl p cresol mono t butyl m cresol t butyl catechol 2 5 di t butyl hydroquinone 2 5 di t amyl hydroquinone propyl gallate 4 4 methylenebis 2 6 t butylphenol 4 4 isopropylidenebis 2 6 di t butylphenol 4 4 butylidenebis 3 methyl 6 t butylphenol butylhydroxyanisole 2 6 di t butyl p cresol 2 6 di t butylphenol 2 6 di t butyl 4 ethylphenol 2 4 6 tri t butylphenol octadecyl 3 4 hydroxy 3 5 di t butylphenyl propionate distearyl 4 hydroxy 3 methyl 5 t butyl benzyl malonate 6 4 hydroxy 3 5 di t butylanilino 2 4 bisoctylthio 1 3 5 triazine 2 6 diphenyl 4 octadecanoxyphenol 2 2 methylenebis 4 methyl 6 t butylphenol 2 2 methylenebis 4 ethyl 6 t butylphenol 2 2 isobutylidenebis 4 6 dimethylphenol 2 2 dihydroxy 3 3 di methylcyclohexyl 5 5 dimethyldiphenylmethane 2 2 methylenebis 4 methyl 6 cyclohexylphenol tris 3 5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxyethyl isocyanurate 1 3 5 tris 2 6 dimethyl 3 hydroxy 4 t butylbenzyl isocyanurate tris 3 5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenol isocyanurate 1 1 3 tris 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 t butylphenyl butane 2 6 bis 2 hydroxy 3 t butyl 5 methylbenzyl 4 methylphenol N N hexamethylenebis 3 5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyhydrocinnamate hexamethyleneglycolbis 3 5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate triethyleneglycolbis 3 t butyl 5 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate tetrakis methylene 3 3 5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate methane and the like. Among them t butyl catechol is preferred.

The amount of the phenolic compound used is preferably from 0.001 to 0.5 parts by weight more preferably from 0.003 to 0.1 parts by weight and even more preferably from 0.005 to 0.1 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the raw material monomers for the fumaric acid modified rosin.

The fumaric acid modified rosin may be used as it is or may be further purified through a procedure such as distillation and used.

The rosin used in the fumaric acid modified rosin in the present invention includes natural rosins obtained from pine trees isomerized rosins dimerized rosins polymerized rosins and disproportionate rosins and a known rosin can be used without particular limitation so long as the rosin may be a rosin of which main components are abietic acid neoabietic acid palustric acid pimaric acid isopimaric acid sandaracopimaric acid dehydroabietic acid levopimaric acid and the like. From the viewpoint of color natural rosins such as a tall rosin obtained from a tall oil obtainable as a by product in the process of manufacturing a natural rosin pulp gum rosin obtainable from a crude turpentine a wood rosin obtained from stumps of pine tree and the like are preferred. The tall rosin is more preferred from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability.

The fumaric acid modified rosin in the present invention is obtained through a Diels Alder reaction while heating so that impurities which are causations for an odor are reduced making it less odorous. From the viewpoint of further reducing an odor and improving storage ability the fumaric acid modified rosin is preferably obtained by modification of a rosin having reduced impurities through a purification step purified rosin with fumaric acid and more preferably obtained by modification of a purified tall rosin with fumaric acid.

The purified rosin in the present invention is a rosin from which impurities are reduced by a purification step. The impurities contained in the rosin can be removed by purifying the rosin. The main impurities include 2 methylpropane acetaldehyde 3 methyl 2 butanone 2 methylpropanoic acid butanoic acid pentanoic acid n hexanal octane hexanoic acid benzaldehyde 2 pentylfuran 2 6 dimethylcyclohexanone 1 methyl 2 1 methylethyl benzene 3 5 dimethyl 2 cyclohexene 4 1 methylethyl benzaldehyde and the like. In the present invention peak intensities of three kinds of impurities of those listed above hexanoic acid pentanoic acid and benzaldehyde which are detected as volatile components according to headspace GC MS method can be used as an index for a purified rosin. Here the reason why that the specified volatile components are used as indexes not in absolute amounts of impurities is in that the use of the purified rosin in the present invention has an objective of improvement in odor against conventional polyesters using rosins.

Specifically the purified rosin in the present invention refers to a rosin in which a peak intensity of hexanoic acid is 0.8 10or less a peak intensity of pentanoic acid is 0.4 10or less and a peak intensity of benzaldehyde is 0.4 10or less under measurement conditions for headspace GC MS method described later. Further from the viewpoint of storage ability and odor the peak intensity of hexanoic acid is preferably 0.6 10or less and more preferably 0.5 10or less. The peak intensity of pentanoic acid is preferably 0.3 10or less and more preferably 0.2 10or less. The peak intensity of benzaldehyde is preferably 0.3 10or less and more preferably 0.2 10or less.

Further it is preferable that n hexanal and 2 pentylfuran are reduced in addition to the three kinds of substances mentioned above from the viewpoint of storage ability and odor. The peak intensity of n hexanal is preferably 1.7 10or less more preferably 1.6 10or less and even more preferably 1.5 10or less. In addition the peak intensity of 2 pentylfuran is preferably 1.0 10or less more preferably 0.9 10or less and even more preferably 0.8 10or less.

As a method of purifying a rosin a known method can be utilized and the method includes a method by distillation recrystallization extraction or the like and it is preferable that the rosin is purified by distillation. As a method of distillation a method described for example in JP A Hei 7 286139 can be utilized. The method of distillation includes vacuum distillation molecular distillation steam distillation and the like and it is preferable that the rosin is purified by vacuum distillation. For example distillation is carried out usually at a pressure of 6.67 kPa or less and at a stilling temperature of from 200 to 300 C. an ordinary simple distillation as well as a method of thin film distillation rectification or the like can be applied. The high molecular weight compound is removed as a pitch component in an amount of from 2 to 10 by weight and at the same time an initial distillate is removed in an amount of from 2 to 10 by weight each based on the charged rosin under ordinary distillation conditions.

The rosin before the modification has a softening point of preferably from 50 to 100 C. more preferably from 60 to 90 C. and even more preferably from 65 to 85 C. The softening point of the rosin in the present invention means a softening point determined when a rosin is once melted and air cooled for 1 hour under environmental conditions of a temperature of 25 C. and a relative humidity of 50 in accordance with a method described later.

The rosin before the modification has a glass transition temperature of preferably from 10 to 50 C. and more preferably from 15 to 50 C. in consideration of the glass transition temperature of the rosin after modification with fumaric acid.

Further the rosin before the modification has an acid value of preferably from 100 to 200 mg KOH g more preferably from 130 to 180 mg KOH g and even more preferably from 150 to 170 mg KOH g.

The fumaric acid modified rosin is contained in an amount of preferably 5 by weight or more more preferably 8 by weight or more and even more preferably 10 by weight or more of the carboxylic acid component from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability. In addition the fumaric acid modified rosin is contained in an amount of preferably 85 by weight or less more preferably 70 by weight or less even more preferably 60 by weight or less and even more preferably 50 by weight or less from the viewpoint of storage ability. From these viewpoints the fumaric acid modified rosin is contained in an amount of preferably from 5 to 85 by weight more preferably from 5 to 70 by weight even more preferably from 8 to 60 by weight and even more preferably from 10 to 50 by weight of the carboxylic acid component.

The carboxylic acid compound other than the fumaric acid modified rosin contained in the carboxylic acid component includes aliphatic dicarboxylic acids such as oxalic acid malonic acid maleic acid fumaric acid citraconic acid itaconic acid glutaconic acid succinic acid adipic acid sebacic acid azelaic acid n dodecylsuccinic acid and n dodecenylsuccinic acid aromatic dicarboxylic acids such as phthalic acid isophthalic acid and terephthalic acid alicyclic dicarboxylic acids such as cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid tricarboxylic or higher polycarboxylic acids such as trimellitic acid and pyromellitic acid acid anhydrides thereof alkyl 1 to 3 carbon atoms esters thereof and the like. The carboxylic acid the anhydride of the carboxylic acid and the alkyl ester of the carboxylic acid as exemplified above are collectively referred to herein as a carboxylic acid compound.

It is preferable that the alcohol component contains an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol from the viewpoint of offset resistance. Since the aliphatic polyhydric alcohol component is molecularly compact and has a high reactivity a polyester having a large number average molecular weight is obtained even when a fumaric acid modified rosin being molecularly bulky and having a low reactivity is used. In other words a polyester having a reduced low molecular weight component and a large number average molecular weight is obtained by polycondensing an alcohol component containing an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol and a carboxylic acid component containing a fumaric acid modified rosin so that it can be deduced that low temperature fixing ability and contradictory physical properties thereto such as offset resistance and storage ability can be satisfied without impairing pulverizability.

The aliphatic polyhydric alcohol is preferably a dihydric to hexahydric aliphatic polyhydric alcohol and more preferably a dihydric to trihydric aliphatic polyhydric alcohol from the viewpoint of its reactivity with a carboxylic acid containing a modified rosin. It is preferable that the aliphatic polyhydric alcohol contains an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol having 2 to 6 carbon atoms of which molecular structure is more compact and rich in reactivity. The aliphatic polyhydric alcohol having 2 to 6 carbon atoms includes ethylene glycol neopentyl glycol 1 2 propanediol 1 3 propanediol 1 4 butanediol 1 6 hexanediol 2 3 butanediol pentaerythritol trimethylolpropane sorbitol glycerol and the like. Among them 1 2 propanediol 1 3 propanediol and glycerol are preferred. The aliphatic polyhydric alcohol having 2 to 6 carbon atoms is contained in an amount of preferably 60 by mol or more more preferably 80 by mol or more even more preferably 90 by mol or more and even more preferably substantially 100 by mol of the aliphatic polyhydric alcohol.

The aliphatic polyhydric alcohol is contained in an amount of preferably 50 by mol or more more preferably 60 by mol or more even more preferably 85 by mol or more and even more preferably substantially 100 by mol of the alcohol component from the viewpoint of reactivity with the fumaric acid modified rosin.

On the other hand it is preferable that the alcohol component contains an alkylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A represented by the formula I 

wherein RO is an alkylene oxide R is an alkylene group having 2 or 3 carbon atoms x and y are positive numbers showing an average number of moles of alkylene oxide added wherein a sum of x and y is from 1 to 16 preferably from 1 to 8 and more preferably from 1.5 to 4 

The alkylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A represented by the formula I includes alkylene 2 to 3 carbon atoms oxide adducts average number of moles added 1 to 16 of bisphenol A such as polyoxypropylene 2.2 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane and polyoxyethylene 2.2 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane and the like.

The compound represented by the formula I is contained in an amount of preferably 30 by mol or more more preferably 50 by mol or more even more preferably 80 by mol or more and even more preferably substantially 100 by mol of the alcohol component from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and durability.

The alcohol component other than the aliphatic polyhydric alcohol and the compound represented by the formula I mentioned above includes 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol hydrogenated bisphenol A and alkylene 2 to 4 carbon atoms oxide adducts average number of moles added 1 to 16 thereof and the like.

It is preferable that in the polyester of the present invention the alcohol component and or the carboxylic acid component contains a trivalent or higher polyvalent raw material monomer other than the fumaric acid modified rosin i.e. a trihydric or higher polyhydric alcohol and or a tricarboxylic or higher polycarboxylic acid compound within the range so as not to impair the storage ability from the viewpoint of reducing residual monomers and improving fixing ability and offset resistance. The meth acrylic acid modified rosin usable in the present invention is a rosin having two functional groups a trivalent or higher polyvalent raw material monomer can be used without impairing low temperature fixing ability of the rosin whereby the residual monomers are reduced while maintaining low temperature fixing ability and further storage ability and offset resistance can be improved. The tricarboxylic or higher polycarboxylic acid compound is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.001 to 40 mol and more preferably from 0.1 to 25 mol based on 100 mol of the alcohol component and the trihydric or higher polyhydric alcohol is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.001 to 40 by mol and more preferably from 0.1 to 25 by mol of the alcohol component from these viewpoints.

In the trivalent or higher polyvalent raw material monomers the tricarboxylic or higher polycarboxylic acid compound is preferably trimellitic acid and a derivative thereof and the trihydric or higher polyhydric alcohol includes glycerol pentaerythritol trimethylolpropane sorbitol and alkylene 2 to 4 carbon atoms oxide average number of moles 1 to 16 adducts thereof. Among them glycerol trimellitic acid and a derivative thereof are preferred because these compounds are not only effective in acting as a branching site or as a cross linking agent but also improving low temperature fixing ability.

It is preferable that the polycondensation of an alcohol component with a carboxylic acid component is carried out in the presence of an esterification catalyst. Preferred examples of the esterification catalysts in the present invention include titanium compounds and tin II compounds without containing a Sn C bond. These esterification catalysts can be used alone or in admixture of both kinds.

The titanium compound is preferably a titanium compound having a Ti O bond and a compound having an alkoxy group an alkenyloxy group or an acyloxy group having a total number of carbon atoms of from 1 of 28 is more preferable.

Specific examples of the titanium compound include titanium diisopropylate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium diisopropylate bis diethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium dipentylate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium diethylate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium dihydroxyoctylate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON OHCHO titanium distearate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium triisopropylate triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium monopropylate tris triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO and the like. Among them titanium diisopropylate bis triethanolaminate titanium diisopropylate bis diethanolaminate and titanium dipentylate bis triethanolaminate are preferable which are available as marketed products of Matsumoto Trading Co. Ltd.

Other specific examples of the preferred titanium compound include tetra n butyl titanate Ti CHO tetrapropyl titanate Ti CHO tetrastearyl titanate Ti CHO tetramyristyl titanate Ti CHO tetraoctyl titanate Ti CHO dioctyl dihydroxyoctyl titanate Ti CHO OHCHO dimyristyl dioctyl titanate Ti CHO CHO and the like. Among them tetrastearyl titanate tetramyristyl titanate tetraoctyl titanate and dioctyl dihydroxyoctyl titanate are preferable. These titanium compounds can be obtained by for example reacting a titanium halide with a corresponding alcohol or are also available as marketed products of Nisso or the like.

The titanium compound is present in an amount of preferably from 0.01 to 1.0 part by weight and more preferably from 0.1 to 0.7 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of a total amount of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component.

The tin II compound without containing a Sn C bond is preferably a tin II compound having a Sn O bond a tin II compound having a Sn X bond wherein X is a halogen atom or the like and the tin II compound having a Sn O bond is more preferable.

The tin II compound containing a Sn O bond includes tin II carboxylate having a carboxylate group having 2 to 28 carbon atoms such as tin II oxalate tin II diacetate tin II dioctanoate tin II dilaurate tin II distearate and tin II dioleate dialkoxy tin II having an alkoxy group having 2 to 28 carbon atoms such as dioctyloxy tin II dilauroxy tin II distearoxy tin II and dioleyloxy tin II tin II oxide tin II sulfate and the like and the compound containing a Sn X bond wherein X is a halogen atom includes tin II halides such as tin II chloride and tin II bromide and the like. Among them a fatty acid tin II represented by the formula RCOO Sn wherein Ris an alkyl group or alkenyl group having 5 to 19 carbon atoms a dialkoxy tin II represented by the formula RO Sn wherein Ris an alkyl group or alkenyl group having 6 to 20 carbon atoms and tin II oxide represented by SnO are preferable and the fatty acid tin II represented by the formula RCOO Sn and tin II oxide are more preferable and tin II dioctanoate tin II distearate and tin II oxide are even more preferable from the viewpoint of an effect of initial rise of triboelectric charges and catalytic ability.

The tin II compound is present in an amount of preferably from 0.01 to 1.0 part by weight and more preferably from 0.1 to 0.7 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the total amount of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component.

When the titanium compound and the tin II compound are used together the titanium compound and the tin II compound are present in a total amount of preferably from 0.01 to 1.0 part by weight and more preferably from 0.1 to 0.7 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the total amount of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component.

The polycondensation of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component can be carried out for example at a temperature of from 180 to 250 C. in an inert gas atmosphere in the presence of the above mentioned esterification catalyst.

The polyester has a softening point of preferably from 90 to 160 C. more preferably from 95 to 155 C. and even more preferably from 100 to 150 C. from the viewpoint of fixing ability storage ability and durability. The polyester has a glass transition temperature of preferably from 45 to 75 C. more preferably from 50 to 75 C. and even more preferably from 50 to 70 C. from the viewpoint of fixing ability storage ability and durability. The polyester has an acid value of preferably from 1 to 80 mg KOH g more preferably from 5 to 60 mg KOH g and even more preferably from 5 to 50 mg KOH g and a hydroxyl value of preferably from 1 to 80 mg KOH g more preferably from 8 to 50 mg KOH g and even more preferably from 8 to 40 mg KOH g from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and environmental stability.

In the polyester of the present invention the low molecular weight component having a molecular weight of 500 or less ascribed to the residual monomer component and the oligomer component or the like is contained in an amount of preferably 12 or less more preferably 10 or less even more preferably 9 or less and even more preferably 8 or less of the polyester from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability storage ability and offset resistance. The amount of the low molecular weight component contained can be reduced by a method of increasing a modified degree of fumaric acid of the rosin or the like.

Here the polyester of the present invention may be a modified polyester to an extent that would not substantially impair the properties. The modified polyester refers to for example a polyester that is grafted or blocked with phenol urethane epoxy or the like by the method described in JP A Hei 11 133668 JP A Hei 10 239903 JP A Hei 8 20636 or the like.

By using the polyester of the present invention as a resin binder for a toner a toner that is excellent in both low temperature fixing ability storage ability and durability and having a reduced odor upon fixing can be obtained. In the toner of the present invention the resin binder may be used together with a known resin binder including for example a vinyl resin such as a styrene acrylic resin an epoxy resin or other resin such as a polycarbonate or a polyurethane within the range that would not impair the effects of the present invention. The polyester of the present invention is contained in an amount of preferably 70 by weight or more more preferably 80 by weight or more even more preferably 90 by weight or more and even more preferably substantially 100 by weight of the resin binder.

The toner of the present invention may further properly contain an additive such as a colorant a releasing agent a charge control agent a magnetic powder a fluidity improver an electric conductivity modifier an extender a reinforcing filler such as a fibrous substance an antioxidant an anti aging agent or a cleanability improver.

As the colorant all of the dyes pigments and the like which are used as colorants for toners can be used and a carbon blacks Phthalocyanine Blue Permanent Brown FG Brilliant Fast Scarlet Pigment Green B Rhodamine B Base Solvent Red 49 Solvent Red 146 Solvent Blue 35 quinacridone carmine 6B disazoyellow or the like can be used. In the present invention the toner may be any of black toner and color toner. The colorant is contained in an amount of preferably from 1 to 40 parts by weight and more preferably from 2 to 10 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder.

The releasing agent includes low molecular weight polyolefins such as polyethylenes polypropylenes and polybutenes silicones fatty acid amides such as oleic acid amide erucic acid amide ricinoleic acid amide and stearic acid amide vegetable waxes such as carnauba wax rice wax candelilla wax wood wax and jojoba oil animal waxes such as beeswax mineral and petroleum waxes such as montan wax ozokerite ceresin paraffin wax microcrystalline wax and Fischer Tropsch wax and the like. These releasing agents may be used alone or in a combination of two or more kinds.

The releasing agent has a melting point of preferably from 50 to 120 C. and more preferably a temperature equal to or lower than a softening point of a resin binder taking into consideration the influences on blocking resistance and low temperature fixing ability of the resin binder. The releasing agent is contained in an amount of preferably from 1 to 20 parts by weight more preferably from 2 to 15 parts by weight and even more preferably from 2 to 10 parts based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder taking into consideration of the effects on low temperature offset influences on triboelectric chargeability and the like.

As the charge control agent any one of negatively chargeable and positively chargeable charge control agents can be used. The negatively chargeable charge control agent includes for example metal containing azo dyes copper phthalocyanine dyes metal complexes of alkyl derivatives of salicylic acid nitroimidazole derivatives and the like. The positively chargeable charge control agent includes for example Nigrosine dyes triphenylmethane based dyes quaternary ammonium salt compounds polyamine resins imidazole derivatives and the like. In addition a polymeric charge control agent such as a resin can be used. The charge control agent is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.1 to 8 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.2 to 5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder.

The toner of the present invention may be a toner obtained by any of conventionally known methods such as a melt kneading method an emulsion phase inversion method and a polymerization method and a pulverized toner produced by the melt kneading method is preferable from the viewpoint of productivity and dispersibility of a colorant. Incidentally in the case of a pulverized toner produced by the melt kneading method the toner can be produced by homogeneously mixing raw materials such as a resin binder a colorant and a charge control agent with a mixer such as a Henschel mixer thereafter melt kneading the mixture with a closed kneader a single screw or twin screw extruder an open roller type kneader or the like cooling pulverizing and classifying the product. It is preferable that the toner has a volume median particle size D of preferably from 3 to 15 m. The term volume median particle size D as used herein means a particle size at 50 when calculated from particle sizes of smaller particle sizes in the cumulative volume frequency calculated in percentage on the volume basis.

Furthermore the toner of the present invention may be subjected to an external addition treatment with an external additive such as fine inorganic particles of silica alumina titania zirconia tin oxide zinc oxide and the like and fine organic particles such as fine resin particles.

As the external additive silica having a small specific gravity is preferable from the viewpoint of preventing embedment. The silica is preferably a hydrophobic silica subjected to a hydrophobic treatment from the viewpoint of environmental stability. The method for hydrophobic treatment is not particularly limited and an agent for the hydrophobic treatment includes hexamethyldisilazane HMDS dimethyldichlorosilane DMDS a silicone oil methyl triethoxysilane and the like. It is preferable that the processing amount of the agent for the hydrophobic treatment is from 1 to 7 mg mper surface area of the fine inorganic particles.

The external additive has a number average particle size of preferably from 3 to 300 nm and more preferably from 5 to 100 nm from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and prevention of a photosensitive member from being damaged.

The external additive is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.01 to 10 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.1 to 5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the toner matrix particles.

The toner of the present invention can be used as a toner for monocomponent development or as a two component developer prepared by mixing the toner with a carrier.

In the present invention the carrier is preferably a carrier having a low saturation magnetization which forms a soft magnetic brush from the viewpoint of the image properties. The saturation magnetization of the carrier is preferably from 40 to 100 Am kg and more preferably from 50 to 90 Am kg. The saturation magnetization is preferably 100 Am kg or less from the viewpoint of controlling the hardness of the magnetic brush and retaining the tone reproducibility and preferably 40 Am kg or more from the viewpoint of preventing the carrier adhesion and the toner scattering.

As a core material for the carrier any of a known material can be used without any particular limitation. The core material includes for example ferromagnetic metals such as iron cobalt and nickel alloys and compounds such as magnetite hematite ferrite copper zinc magnesium ferrite manganese ferrite and magnesium ferrite and glass beads and the like. Among them iron powder magnetite ferrite copper zinc magnesium ferrite manganese ferrite and magnesium ferrite are preferable from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and ferrite copper zinc magnesium ferrite manganese ferrite and magnesium ferrite are more preferable from the viewpoint of image quality.

It is preferable that the surface of the carrier is coated with a resin from the viewpoint of reducing the contamination of the carrier. The resin for coating the surface of the carrier may vary depending upon the toner materials and includes for example fluororesins such as polytetrafluoroethylenes monochlorotrifluoroethylene polymers and poly vinylidene fluorides silicone resins such as polydimethyl siloxane polyesters styrenic resins acrylic resins polyamides polyvinyl butyrals aminoacrylate resins and the like. These resins can be used alone or in admixture of two or more kinds. In the case where the toner is negatively chargeable silicone resins are preferable from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and surface energy. The method of coating a core material with a resin is not particularly limited and includes for example a method of dissolving or suspending a coating material such as a resin in a solvent and applying the solution or suspension to be deposited on a core material a method of simply blending in the state of powder and the like.

In the two component developer of the present invention obtained by mixing a toner and a carrier a weight ratio of the toner to the carrier i.e. toner carrier is preferably from 1 99 to 10 90 and more preferably from 5 95 to 7 93.

The following examples further describe and demonstrate embodiments of the present invention. The examples are given solely for the purposes of illustration and are not to be construed as limitations of the present invention.

The softening point refers to a temperature at which a half of the sample flows out when plotting a downward movement of a plunger of a flow tester Shimadzu Corporation CFT 500D against temperature in which a sample is prepared by applying a load of 1.96 MPa thereto with the plunger using the flow tester and extruding a 1 g sample through a nozzle having a die pore size of 1 mm and a length of 1 mm while heating the sample so as to raise the temperature at a rate of 6 C. min.

The glass transition temperature refers to a temperature of an intersection of the extension of the baseline of equal to or lower than the temperature of the maximum endothermic peak and the tangential line showing the maximum inclination between the kick off of the peak and the top of the peak which is determined using a differential scanning calorimeter Seiko Instruments Inc. DSC 210 of a sample of which temperature is raised at a rate of 10 C. min. the sample prepared by measuring out a sample in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.02 g on an aluminum pan raising its temperature to 200 C. and cooling the sample from that temperature to 0 C. at a cooling rate of 10 C. min.

Ten grams of a rosin is melted on hot plate at 170 C. for 2 hours. Thereafter the molten rosin is air cooled in an environment of an open state at a temperature of 25 C. and relative humidity of 50 for 1 hour and a cooled product is pulverized with a coffee mill National Panasonic MK 61M for 10 seconds.

The softening point refers to a temperature at which a half of the sample flows out when plotting a downward movement of a plunger of a flow tester Shimadzu Corporation CFT 500D against temperature in which a sample is prepared by applying a load of 1.96 MPa thereto with the plunger using the flow tester and extruding a 1 g sample through a nozzle having a die pore size of 1 mm and a length of 1 mm while heating the sample so as to raise the temperature at a rate of 6 C. min.

The acid values are measured as prescribed by a method of JIS K0070 provided that only a measurement solvent is changed from a mixed solvent of ethanol and ether as prescribed in JIS K0070 to a mixed solvent of acetone and toluene acetone toluene 1 1 volume ratio .

The molecular weight distribution is measured by gel permeation chromatography GPC . Ten milliliters of tetrahydrofuran is added to 30 mg of a toner and the mixture is mixed with a ball mill for 1 hour and thereafter filtered with a fluororesin filter FP 200 manufactured by Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. having a pore size of 2 m to remove an insoluble component to prepare a sample solution.

The measurement is taken by allowing tetrahydrofuran to flow through a column as an eluent at a flow rate of 1 ml per minute stabilizing the column in a thermostat at 40 C. and loading 100 l of a sample solution. Here using GMHLX G3000HXL manufactured by Tosoh Corporation as an analyzing column a calibration curve of the molecular weights is drawn from several kinds of monodisperse polystyrenes those having molecular weights of 2.63 10 2.06 10 and 1.02 10manufactured by Tosoh Corporation and those having molecular weights of 2.10 10 7.00 10 and 5.04 10manufactured by GL Sciences Inc. as standard samples.

The amount of the low molecular weight component having a molecular weight of 500 or less contained is calculated as a proportion of the area of the corresponding region in the area of the chart obtained by a RI refractive index detector based on the entire area of the chart i.e. the area of the corresponding region the entire area of the chart.

A 2.1 g sample in a molten state is injected into a given ring and the sample is then cooled to room temperature and thereafter the SP values are measured under the following conditions as prescribed in JIS B7410.

Measuring apparatus Automatic Ring and Ball Softening Point Tester ASP MGK2 manufactured by MEITECH Company Ltd. 

wherein Xis a SP value of a fumaric acid modified rosin of which modified degree is calculated Xis a SP value of a fumaric acid modified rosin obtainable by reacting one mol of fumaric acid and 0.7 mol of a rosin and Y is a SP value of the rosin.

The SP value shown by Xis a SP value of a fumaric acid modified rosin obtained by raising the temperature of a mixture of 1 mol of fumaric acid 0.7 mol of a rosin and 0.4 g of t butyl catechol from 160 to 200 C. over 2 hours allowing the mixture to react at 200 C. for 2 hours and thereafter distilling the reaction mixture under reduced pressure of 5.3 kPa. Here supposing that an acid value of a rosin is x mgKOH g the molecular weight of 1 mol of the rosin can be calculated by the formula B Molecular Weight 56100 B because x mg x 10g of potassium hydroxide molecular weight 56.1 would be reacting to 1 g of the rosin.

A temperature of maximum endothermic peak of the heat of fusion obtained by raising the temperature of a sample at a rate of 10 C. min. the sample prepared by raising the temperature of a sample to 200 C. using a differential scanning calorimeter Seiko Instruments Inc. DSC 210 and cooling the heated sample from that temperature to 0 C. at a cooling rate of 10 C. min. is referred to as a melting point.

The number average particle size is obtained by the following formula Number Average Particle Size nm 6 Specific Surface Area m g 1000 wherein is a specific gravity of a fine inorganic powder or an external additive and Specific Surface Area is a BET specific surface area obtained by nitrogen adsorption method of a raw powder or a raw powder before the hydrophobic treatment in the case of an external additive. For example the specific gravity of silica is 2.2 and the specific gravity of titanium oxide is 4.2.

A 2000 ml distillation flask equipped with a fractionation tube a reflux condenser and a receiver was charged with 1000 g of a tall rosin Tg 37.2 C. and the tall rosin was distilled under a reduced pressure of 1 kPa and a fractionation component at 195 to 250 C. was collected as a main fractionation component. Hereinafter the tall resin subjected to purification is referred to as unpurified rosin and a rosin collected as a main fractional component is referred to as purified rosin Tg 39.2 C. . 

Twenty grams of the rosin was pulverized with a coffee mill National Panasonic MK 61M for 5 seconds and the rosin having sizes of 1 mm sieve opening passed were measured off in an amount of 0.5 g in a vial for headspace 20 ml . A headspace gas was sampled and the results of analyzing impurities in the unpurified rosin and the purified rosin by headspace GC MS method are shown in Table 1.

A 1000 ml flask equipped with a fractionating tube a reflux condenser and a receiver was charged with 332 g 1 mol of an unpurified rosin SP value 77.0 C. 81 g 0.7 mol of fumaric acid and 0.4 g of t butyl catechol the temperature of the mixture was raised from 160 to 200 C. over a period of 2 hours and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 2 hours. Thereafter the reaction mixture was subjected to distillation under reduced pressure of 5.3 kPa to distill away the unreacted fumaric acid and low boiling point substances from the reaction mixture to give a fumaric acid modified rosin. The resulting fumaric acid modified rosin had a SP value i.e. a SP value of the fumaric acid modified rosin using the unpurified rosin of 130.6 C.

A 1000 ml flask equipped with a fractionating tube a reflux condenser and a receiver was charged with 338 g 1 mol of a purified rosin SP value 76.8 C. 81 g 0.7 mol of fumaric acid and 0.4 g of t butyl catechol the temperature of the mixture was raised from 160 to 200 C. over a period of 2 hours and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 2 hours. Thereafter the reaction mixture was subjected to distillation under reduced pressure of 5.3 kPa to distill away the unreacted fumaric acid and low boiling point substances from the reaction mixture to give a fumaric acid modified rosin. The resulting fumaric acid modified rosin had a SP value i.e. a SP value of the fumaric acid modified rosin using the purified rosin of 130.9 C.

A 10 L flask equipped with a fractionating tube a reflux condenser and a receiver was charged with 5408 g 16 mol of a purified rosin SP value 76.8 C. 928 g 8 mol of fumaric acid and 0.4 g of t butyl catechol and the temperature of the mixture was raised from 160 to 200 C. over a period of 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 2 hours and the reaction mixture was then subjected to distillation under reduced pressure of 5.3 kPa to give a fumaric acid modified rosin A. The resulting fumaric acid modified rosin A had a SP value of 130.8 C. a glass transition temperature of 74.4 C. and a fumaric acid modified degree of 100.

A 10 L flask equipped with a fractionating tube a reflux condenser and a receiver was charged with 5408 g 16 mol of a purified rosin SP value 76.8 C. 557 g 4.8 mol of fumaric acid and 0.4 g of t butyl catechol and the temperature of the mixture was raised from 160 to 200 C. over a period of 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 2 hours and the reaction mixture was then subjected to distillation under reduced pressure of 5.3 kPa to give a fumaric acid modified rosin B. The resulting fumaric acid modified rosin B had a SP value of 115.7 C. a glass transition temperature of 53.9 C. and a fumaric acid modified degree of 72.

A 10 L flask equipped with a fractionating tube a reflux condenser and a receiver was charged with 5408 g 16 mol of a purified rosin SP value 76.8 C. 278 g 2.4 mol of fumaric acid and 0.4 g of t butyl catechol and the temperature of the mixture was raised from 160 to 200 C. over a period of 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 2 hours and the reaction mixture was then subjected to distillation under reduced pressure of 5.3 kPa to give a fumaric acid modified rosin C. The resulting fumaric acid modified rosin C had a SP value of 98.4 C. a glass transition temperature of 48.3 C. and a fumaric acid modified degree of 40.

A 10 L flask equipped with a fractionating tube a reflux condenser and a receiver was charged with 5312 g 16 mol of an unpurified rosin SP value 77.0 C. 928 g 8 mol of fumaric acid and 0.4 g of t butyl catechol and the temperature of the mixture was raised from 160 to 200 C. over a period of 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 2 hours and the reaction mixture was then subjected to distillation under reduced pressure of 5.3 kPa to give a fumaric acid modified rosin D. The resulting fumaric acid modified rosin D had a SP value of 130.4 C. a glass transition temperature of 72.1 C. and a fumaric acid modified degree of 100.

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component a carboxylic acid component other than trimellitic anhydride and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 2 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 10 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. for and 8 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 220 C. the trimellitic anhydride in an amount as shown in Table 2 was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react thereat for 1 hour under normal pressure 101.3 kPa and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 220 C. and 20 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give each of the polyesters.

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component a carboxylic acid component other than fumaric acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 2 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 10 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 8 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. the fumaric acid in an amount as shown in Table 2 was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 210 C. over 5 hours and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 210 C. and 10 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give a polyester.

One hundred parts by weight of the polyester each obtained in Examples A1 to A8 and Comparative Example A1 4 parts by weight of a carbon black MOGUL L manufactured by Cabot Corporation 1 part by weight of a negatively chargeable control agent BONTRON S 34 manufactured by Orient Chemical Co. Ltd. and 1 part by weight of a polypropylene wax NP 105 manufactured by MITSUI CHEMICALS INC. melting point 105 C. as shown in Table 3 were sufficiently mixed with a Henschel mixer and thereafter the mixture was melt kneaded with a unidirectional rotary twin screw extruder at a roller rotational speed of 200 r min and a heating temperature inside the roller of 80 C. The resulting melt kneaded product was cooled and roughly pulverized and thereafter pulverized with a jet mill and a pulverized product was classified to give a powder having a volume median particle size D of 8.0 m.

To 100 parts by weight of the resulting powder was added 1.0 part by weight of an external additive Aerosil R 972 manufactured by Nippon Aerosil Co. LTD. number average particle size 16 nm and the mixture was blended with a Henschel mixer to give each of the toners A1 to A8 and a comparative toner A1.

A toner was loaded on a printer PAGEPRESTO N 4 manufactured by CASIO COMPUTER CO. LTD. fixing contact fixing method development method nonmagnetic monocomponent development method developer roller diameter 2.3 cm and an amount of toner adhesion was adjusted to 0.6 mg cm to give unfixed images. The obtained unfixed images were subjected to a fixing test by allowing unfixed images to fix while raising a temperature of the fixer roller from 100 to 240 C. with an increment of 5 C. using a fixing apparatus fixing speed 250 mm s modified so as to enable fixing outside the machine with a fixing apparatus of a contact fixing type copy machine AR 505 manufactured by Sharp Corporation .

 UNICEF Cellophane tape manufactured by MITSUBISHI PENCIL CO. LTD. width 18 mm JIS Z 1522 was adhered to the fixed images obtained at each fixing temperature and the resulting fixed images were allowed to pass through the fixing roller of the above fixing apparatus set at 30 C. and the tape was then removed. The optical reflective densities before and after the removal of the tape were measured using a reflective densitometer RD 915 manufactured by Macbeth Process Measurements Co. . A temperature of the fixing roller at which the ratio of both of the optical reflective densities i.e. that after removal that before removal initially exceeds 90 is defined as a lowest fixing temperature. The low temperature fixing ability was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 3.

Two sets of samples of 4 g of a toner each placed in an open type cylindrical vessel having a diameter of 5 cm and a height of 2 cm were furnished where one set of the samples was allowed to stand under the environmental conditions of a temperature of 40 C. and a relative humidity of 60 and the other set of samples was allowed to stand under environmental conditions of a temperature of 55 C. and a relative humidity of 60 each for 72 hours. After allowing the toner to stand the vessel containing the toner was gently shaken and the presence or absence of the generation of toner aggregation was visually observed. The storage ability was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 3.

A toner was loaded to a nonmagnetic monocomponent development system OKI Microline 18 manufactured by Oki Data Corporation and a durability printing test was conducted by continuously printing images of diagonally striped patterns having a blackening ratio of 5.5 under the conditions of 32 C. and a relative humidity of 85 . During the course of printing black solid images were printed every 500 sheets and the presence or absence of the lines on the formed images was visually confirmed. At the point where the generation of the lines was confirmed a durability test was conducted in the maximum of 5000 sheets and the durability was evaluated by defining the number of printed sheets at the point where the generation of lines was confirmed as the number of durability printing sheets in accordance with the following evaluation criteria.

Twenty grams of a toner was weighed in an aluminum cup and allowed to stand on a hot plate heated to 150 C. for 30 minutes. The odor generated from a toner was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 3.

It can be seen from the above results that the toners containing the polyesters of Examples A1 to A8 obtained by using a fumaric acid modified rosin in the carboxylic acid component have excellent low temperature fixing ability even when subjected to fast printing and excellent storage ability even under severe environmental conditions and maintain excellent durability upon continuous fast printing. On the other hand the toner containing the polyester of Comparative Example A1 using an unpurified rosin does not sufficient storage ability and durability due to the low glass transition temperature of the polyester and is also disadvantageous in odor.

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a fractional tube through which hot water at 98 C. was allowed to flow the fractional tube being equipped with a reflux condenser through which a cold water at room temperature was allowed to flow at the top thereof a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component a carboxylic acid component other than trimellitic anhydride and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 4 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 160 C. for 2 hours under nitrogen atmosphere the temperature of the reaction mixture was then raised to 210 C. over 6 hours and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 66 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 200 C. the trimellitic anhydride shown in Table 4 was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react thereat for 1 hour under normal pressure 101.3 kPa . Thereafter the temperature of the reaction mixture was then raised to 210 C. and the reaction mixture was then allowed to react at 40 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give each of the polyesters.

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a fractional tube through which hot water at 98 C. was allowed to flow the fractional tube being equipped with a reflux condenser through which a cold water at room temperature was allowed to flow at the top thereof a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component except for glycerol a carboxylic acid component except for trimellitic anhydride and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 4 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 160 C. for 2 hours under nitrogen atmosphere the temperature of the reaction mixture was then raised to 210 C. over 6 hours and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 66 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. the glycerol shown in Table 4 was introduced into the mixture and the temperature was raised to 200 C. at a rate of 5 C. 30 minutes. Further the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 1 hour under normal pressure 101.3 kPa and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 66 kPa for 1 hour. Thereafter the trimellitic anhydride shown in Table 4 was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react thereat for 1 hour under normal pressure 101.3 kPa . Thereafter the temperature of the reaction mixture was raised to 210 C. and the reaction mixture was then allowed to react at 40 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give a polyester.

Toners were prepared in the same manner as in Production Example A1 of Toner using 100 parts by weight of the polyester obtained in each of Examples B1 to B9 and Comparative Example B1 shown in Table 4 to give each of toners B1 to B9 and a comparative toner B1 respectively.

The low temperature fixing ability the storage ability and the odor were evaluated in the same manner as in Test Examples A1 to A4 and the pulverizability was evaluated in accordance with the following method. Here in Test Example A1 the fixing speed of the fixing device was changed to 125 mm s and at the same time the generation of hot offset was visually observed and the offset resistance was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 5.

Each of the polyesters obtained in Examples B1 to B9 and Comparative Example B1 were roughly pulverized and sieved to obtain a resin powder having a size passing 16 mesh sieve opening 1 mm and not passing 22 mesh sieve opening 710 m . This classified resin powder was accurately weight in an amount of 10.00 g and the resin powder was pulverized with Mill Mixer Model MM I manufactured by Hitachi Living Systems Ltd. for 30 seconds and the pulverized product was applied to a 30 mesh sieve opening 500 m sieve the weight A g of the not passed resin was accurately weighed and the residual ratio was calculated by the following formula. The procedures were carried out three times and averaged and the obtained value was obtained as a pulverizability index and the pulverizability was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 5.

It can be seen from the above results that the toners containing the polyesters of Examples B1 to B9 obtained by using an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol in the alcohol component and a fumaric acid modified rosin in the carboxylic acid component have not only excellent low temperature fixing ability and durability but also excellent offset resistance and pulverizability and have excellent storage ability even under severe environmental conditions. On the other hand the toner containing the polyester of Comparative Example B1 using an unpurified rosin contains a low molecular weight component in a large amount in the polyester so that the toner does not have sufficient storage ability and pulverizability and is also disadvantageous in odor.

The polyester for a toner of the present invention is usable as a resin binder for a toner usable in for example developing electrostatic latent images formed in electrophotography electrostatic recording method electrostatic printing method or the like.

