---

title: Method and computer program product for converting ontologies into concept semantic networks
abstract: A method and computer program product for producing a concept semantic network (CSN) from an ontology. Each class, subclass, object, restriction, and property of the ontology is converted into a concept of the CSN. Each hierarchy in the ontology is converted to a concept hierarchy of the CSN.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07676485&OS=07676485&RS=07676485
owner: Ixreveal, Inc.
number: 07676485
owner_city: Jacksonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070122
---
This non provisional patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 60 760 392 filed Jan. 20 2006.

The invention described herein relates to analysis of unstructured information and in particular relates to text analytics.

More than 80 of data being gathered by users of information systems is unstructured. This data may be in the form of emails blogs websites documents spreadsheets etc. As the number of computer and Internet users continues to grow more and more unstructured data content is created. This is evident when observing the growth of the Internet and websites about 10 million and documents and emails residing on an individual s desktop. This growth of data has created a need for understanding and leveraging the data s content.

This has given rise to the emerging text analytics area. This area focuses on understanding harnessing and linking contents of emails websites and text data for example in database records and documents henceforth collectively called documents . The primary domain of expertise and knowledge comes from natural language processing NLP a sub division of artificial intelligence AI .

The advantages of text analytics are well known and several text analysis techniques are increasingly adopted in all walks of life. Today customer feedback through a company s website is analyzed immediately and accurately for negative tones. Once such tones are identified they are immediately used with the rest of the customer data for personalized action. Law enforcement agencies use the text analysis techniques on incident reports to look for the modus operandi of suspected criminals. Such broad examples are plentiful. In spite of such compelling benefits and advantages however text analysis adoption has been limited due to several limitations in current processing techniques.

There are several methods algorithms available in NLP that can be used in attempting to understand the language of a document and summarize what the document is about. The challenge has been to match the expectations of the reviewer with the output of the NLP algorithm s .

Overcoming this challenge has been difficult and several approaches have been proposed with varied degrees of success. Key approaches in this area include 

What is needed therefore is a method and system for performing text analytics in a manner that avoids these shortcomings.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the present invention as well as the operation of the various embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is now described with reference to the figures where like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. While specific configurations and arrangements are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other configurations and arrangements can be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that this invention can also be employed in a variety of other systems and applications.

In order to overcome automated methodology limitations several techniques have been proposed over the years 

The popularity of ontologies appears to be growing. The ability to rigorously capture store and reuse the conceptual schema about a domain makes ontologies attractive for diverse user communities. For example the Semantic Web initiative is a project that intends to create a universal medium for information exchange by giving meanings semantics in a manner understandable by machines to the content of documents on the Web. The Semantic Web extends the World Wide Web through the use of standards markup languages and related processing tools. One of the main components of this initiative is capturing the representation of knowledge which reflects a user s interest in a formal way http www.w3.org 2001 sw .

Because of this initiative several public sector organizations and private sector companies have been working on building ontologies that formally capture rich meta data. If used appropriately these meta data structures can help users analyze text content. This can be done formally in the areas of user interest. A high level system flow diagram is shown in which illustrates the use of ontologies for analysis of textual information. Here a user creates one or more ontologies which are used in an analytical engine along with text or database input. The results can be generated in a graphical form e.g. graphs and charts which can then be analyzed by the same or different user.

Thesauri are widely thought of as special purpose ontologies where classes objects are called terms with a limited set of relationships between these terms as defined in the ANSI NISO Z39.19 2003 US standard entitled Guidelines for the Construction Format and Management of Monolingual Thesauri and its equivalent international standard ISO 2788. Unlike ontologies which allow any user defined relationship between classes thesauri allow only the following relationships between terms 

Based on the fact that thesauri are specific instances of ontologies the method described herein for mapping ontologies to concept semantic networks CSNs can be used to map thesauri to CSNs as well.

A concept semantic network can be viewed as a set of ideas or concepts that are interrelated and represent one s beliefs about a certain topic. Humans develop ideas or concepts about almost every topic and these concepts can change as people learn more about these topics. A CSN becomes very useful in text analytics where users need not think about keywords like search engines do but rather about concepts. Once a concept is defined the definition can be reused multiple times. shows an example CSN that has definitions for Automobile US Automobile and Imported Automobile concepts. Notice that Automobile is defined in terms of the latter two concepts. Also US Automobile and Imported Automobile are in turn defined in terms of other concepts. According to the definition given in when user uses Automobile he or she in fact means US Automobiles and Imported Automobiles which in turn get resolved to Ford and Toyota respectively. Of course a more complete definition might have included all US automobiles and all imported automobiles.

In other words a concept can be defined in terms of other concepts. Another example is the concept North America which can be defined in terms of concepts USA Canada and Mexico. Recursively any of these three concepts can be defined in terms of other concepts. These multi level definitions build what is called a concept hierarchy.

A concept can be part of multiple concept hierarchies. For example the concept North Atlantic Treaty Organization can be defined in terms of concepts representing member countries which include USA and Canada. Now we have USA and Canada as members of two concept hierarchies. A concept semantic network may contain one or more concept hierarchies. A valid concepts grammar is described in Appendix II.

Concepts can be as simple as a single word or a phrase or can be a complete hierarchy as shown in the above examples. A concept may also be a complex construct of other concepts linked using logical operators such as AND OR and NOT. Using the above example one could define a new concept of Toyota AND Ford NOT Honda. A complex concept can be resolved by substituting the definitions of its sub concepts. Appendix II provides an example of a formal grammar for complex concepts. Once simple concepts are extracted from ontologies they can be used to construct complex concepts within a CSN to provide a new level of comprehensiveness that is not possible in ontologies.

As indicated above ontologies are developed mainly for machine consumption which makes them less useful for human users despite their rich content. On the other hand concept semantic networks are more user oriented. Users are accustomed to view things as related concepts or ideas. One of the challenges that face CSN users is how to create CSNs and maintain them effectively. This challenge can be overcome with variable degrees of success using one or more of the following approaches 

Examples of widely accepted ontology languages include DAML DARPA Agent Markup Language and OWL. Ontolgies include two parts one that deals with capturing definitions of terms which cover classes subclasses properties restrictions and individual objects and a second part that addresses inference and logical implications. The first part of the language definitions is used primarily to establish the mapping between ontologies and CSNs.

Before explaining the conversion process it is important to highlight some of the main differences between ontologies and CSNs which will also clarify some of the conversion steps.

To illustrate the conversion process an ontology about digital camera components will be used. This example is presented for illustration purposes only and does not limit the scope of the invention. The actual code for the digital camera ontology is presented in Appendix I. The ontology classes are PurchaseableItem Money Range Viewer and Window as shown in the .

The PurchaseableItem class has the subclasses Body Camera and Lens. Also Body and Camera have a number of subclasses. The expanded list of classes and subclasses is shown in .

All ontology classes and subclasses are mapped into concepts in a CSN while preserving their hierarchical relationships. This means that the resulting CSN has the following concepts Purchaseable Item Body Body With Non Adjustable Shutter Speed Camera Large Format SLR Digital Lens Money Range Viewer and Window. These concepts are shown in the list view of .

Note that a part concept is also shown though it was not one of the ontology classes or subclasses but this will be explained later. Notice also that in an ontology class and subclass names are made of a connected string with no white spaces as required by the ontology language specifications. In a CSN there is no such restriction and therefore during the conversion process connected multiword strings are split into multiple words to provide a more user friendly interface. Bear in mind that ontologies are more machine oriented while CSNs are for human user consumption and so they are expected to be user friendly.

After identifying the concepts the ontology CSN conversion method identifies the concept type to associate with every concept. Several options are available to accomplish this task. The conversion mechanism may interact with the user to capture his her preference as to which option to choose. Options can include 

In addition to representing class hierarchies ontologies are capable of representing property hierarchies. One can define a property with a number of sub properties recursively which establishes a hierarchy. Using a ontology CSN conversion utility property hierarchies are converted into concept hierarchies. In the digital camera example part is a property that has two subproperties namely lens and body. This hierarchy is also converted to a concept hierarchy with a parent concept of part and two child concepts of lens and body. 

One of the major differences between an ontology and a CSN is inheritance. Ontologies allow downward inheritance of class properties to all its subclasses. In a CSN concept properties may have to be explicitly defined. In other words though concepts may be related with is a relationships in a CSN this does not necessarily imply inheriting ancestor s properties. The ontology CSN conversion utility allows users the option to convert class properties as child concepts of the concept that maps to that class. If a user uses this option properties will also be considered as child concepts of the other child concepts that map to the subclasses of the main class. To illustrate this consider the digital camera example. The Camera class has Digital and Large Format as two subclasses and body view Finder lens and cost as properties. The conversion is done such that Camera is the parent concept and Digital and Large Format are two of its child concepts. A user can also choose to include properties as child concepts in which case body view Finder lens and cost also become child concepts of Camera as illustrated in . Since Digital and Large Format are subclasses of Camera they inherit its properties. Regarding the CSN shown in body view Finder lens and cost are also child concepts of Digital and Large Format. In other words a user can preserve the inheritance of properties feature of ontologies when CSNs are created.

The following example shown in Table 1 explains a part of an aviation thesaurus that deals with air conditioning systems. Air cycle machines ducts equipment cooling fans heat exchangers mixing valves packs and recirculation fans are narrower terms with respect to air conditioning systems . Not only is there a great deal of redundancy in describing the relationships between terms but users cannot use other types of criteria to group terms. When this is converted into a concept bank as shown in Table 2 the representation is more compressed and allows the user to provide concept types for every concept. The types can be used for grouping and browsing purposes. In this example the user chooses to assign whether manually or automatically using a lexical database the concept type Parts to the terms fans and ducts . The user can always browse concepts using Part which was not possible using thesauri.

Due to the differences between the two representation schemes of ontologies and CSNs automated conversion may not perfectly satisfy every end user need. Therefore it can be useful to have an easy to use user interface that allows users to edit the generated CSN before it is saved. Users may also want to take advantage of having their concepts in a CSN and start building more complex concepts of the basic concepts extracted from the ontology. The conversion utility could provide a GUI similar to the one presented in to enable users to customize concept definitions and relationships. Internally CSNs can be stored in relational tables with an option to save or export them into other formats such as XML CSV and Excel.

In an embodiment of the present invention the system and components of the present invention described herein are implemented using well known computers such as a computer shown in . The computer can be a special purpose device or any commercially available and well known computer capable of performing the functions described herein such as computers available from International Business Machines Apple Silicon Graphics Inc. Sun HP Dell Compaq Digital Cray etc.

The computer includes one or more processors also called central processing units or CPUs such as a processor . The processor is connected to a communication bus . The computer also includes a main or primary memory such as random access memory RAM . The primary memory has stored therein control logic computer software and data.

The computer also includes one or more secondary storage devices . The secondary storage devices include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage device or drive . The removable storage drive represents a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive an optical storage device tape backup etc.

The removable storage drive interacts with a removable storage unit . The removable storage unit includes a computer useable or readable storage medium having stored therein computer software control logic and or data. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape compact disk DVD optical storage disk or any other computer data storage device. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to the removable storage unit in a well known manner.

The computer also includes input output display devices such as display keyboards pointing devices etc.

The computer further includes a communication or network interface . The interface enables the computer to communicate with remote devices. For example the interface allows the computer to communicate over communication networks or media representing a form of a computer useable or readable medium such as LANs WANs the Internet etc. The interface may interface with remote sites or networks via wired or wireless connections.

Control logic may be transmitted to and from the computer via the communication medium . More particularly the computer may receive and transmit carrier waves electromagnetic signals modulated with control logic via the communication medium .

Any apparatus or manufacture comprising a computer useable or readable medium having control logic software stored therein is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes but is not limited to the computer the main memory the hard disk the removable storage unit and the carrier waves modulated with control logic. Such computer program products having control logic stored therein that when executed by one or more data processing devices cause such data processing devices to convert an ontology into a CSN as described herein represent embodiments of the invention.

The invention can work with software hardware and or operating system implementations other than those described herein. Any software hardware and operating system implementations suitable for performing the functions described herein can be used.

While some embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that it has been presented by way of examples only and not meant to limit the invention. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

