---

title: Increasing force transmissibility for tactile feedback interface devices
abstract: Method and apparatus for increasing the transmissibility of forces produced by an actuator on a manipulandum. A haptic device, coupled to a host computer, outputs tactile sensations to a user based on interactions and events occurring in a displayed graphical environment. An actuator produces forces and a compliant suspension couples the actuator to the manipulandum. A compliance of the suspension is configured such that the suspension magnifies the forces for a particular frequency range of the forces. The magnified forces are transmitted to the manipulandum to be felt by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411420&OS=09411420&RS=09411420
owner: Immersion Corporation
number: 09411420
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070423
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 759 028 filed on Jan. 20 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 209 118 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 675 995 filed on Sep. 29 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 680 729 entitled Increasing Force Transmissibility For Tactile Feedback Interface Devices which claims the benefit of Provisional Patent Application No. 60 157 206 filed on Sep. 30 1999 by Shahoian et al. entitled Increasing Vibration Transmissibility in Vibrotactile Controllers by Tuning Suspension Compliance. 

Computer devices are widely used for entertainment activities such as playing games. Currently popular gaming computer devices include game consoles connected to a home television set such as the Nintendo 64 from Nintendo Corp. the Playstation from Sony Corp. and the Dreamcast from Sega Corp. Gaming computer devices also include personal computers such as Windows PCs Macintosh computers and others. Also portable computer devices are often used for entertainment purposes such as Game Boy from Nintendo personal digital assistants such as PalmPilot from Palm Computing and laptop computers.

Users of these computer devices typically interact with a game or other application program using an interface device connected to the host computer e.g. game console . Such interface devices may include joysticks gamepads mice trackballs styluses steering wheels or other devices. A user moves a user manipulatable object manipulandum such as a joystick wheel mouse button dial or other object which is sensed by the host computer and used to manipulate a graphical environment displayed by the host computer. Recently haptic feedback in interface devices has become available as well where the host computer and or a microprocessor on the interface device controls one or more motors to output forces to the user. These forces are correlated with events or objects in the graphical environment to further immerse the user in the gaming experience or interface task. Herein the term haptic feedback is intended to include both tactile or vibrotactile feedback forces transmitted to user skin surfaces and kinesthetic feedback forces provided in degree s of freedom of motion of the manipulandum .

In the game console market products are typically produced in high volume and low cost. Therefore haptic feedback interface devices have been typically limited to simpler embodiments that provide more limited forms of haptic feedback. Existing force feedback gamepad controllers or add on hardware for gamepad controllers that are used to interface with games running on game consoles include the Dual Shock from Sony Corp. the Rumble Pak from Nintendo Corp. and the Jump Pack from Sega Corp as well as other types of handheld controllers such as the MadCatz Dual Force Racing Wheel. These devices are inertial tactile feedback controllers which employ one or more motors to shake the housing of the controller and thus provide output forces such as vibrations to the user which are correlated to game events and interactions. Typically an eccentric rotating mass ERM motor i.e. pager motor is used to generate vibration on the controller and thus to the user. The motor is rigidly coupled to the controller housing and provides a mass on a rotating shaft offset from the axis of rotation so that when the shaft is rotated the inertial forces from the moving mass rock the motor and the gamepad housing back and forth.

One problem with existing tactile controllers is that they are limited in the magnitude of forces output to the user. Devices driving a motor and mass in only one rotational direction tend to provide greater amplitude forces in an inertial tactile device but the forces are not as crisp precise or controllable as forces output by a harmonically bidirectional driven motor and mass. The drawback of the harmonically driven mass or low power tactile devices is that the forces are often not strong enough to be compelling to the user especially in applications such as games or virtual reality.

The present subject matter is directed to increasing the transmissibility of inertial forces produced by an actuator on the housing of a manipulandum.

In an embodiment the subject matter is directed to a device which includes a manipulandum that is adapted to provide an input signal upon being manipulated by the user. A processor is coupled to the manipulandum and is configured to provide a graphical environment with which the user interacts by utilizing the manipulandum. An actuator is positioned within the manipulandum wherein the actuator is configured to receive a control signal from the processor and produce a force based on the control signal. The control signal is based on at least one of an event within a graphical environment or the input signal. A compliant suspension mechanism is coupled between the actuator and the manipulandum so as to suspend the actuator relative to the manipulandum. The compliant suspension mechanism is configured to magnify the force that is produced by the actuator.

These and other advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the following specification a study of the several figures of the drawing.

This application describes techniques and devices that provide increased force transmissibility and thus output magnitude for inertial forces produced by inertial tactile devices. Herein the term tactile device or tactile feedback device is intended to refer to any controller or interface device that outputs inertial forces such as pulses or vibrations to the user of the device by moving an inertial mass and can include gamepads handheld steering wheels fishing type controllers joysticks mice trackballs adult devices grips remote controls handheld game devices flat screens styluses etc.

An example of a sectional view of controller is shown in . Controller includes one or more individual actuators and such as motors. In one embodiment each motor can have an eccentric rotating mass ERM . The ERM is an inertial mass that is rotated to output inertial forces on the gamepad housing with respect to the inertial mass acting as an inertial ground rather than outputting forces with respect to an earth ground. By rotating the mass continuously periodic inertial forces are output at a particular frequency to cause force sensations such as vibrations on the housing. Single pulses of inertial force can be output by moving an inertial mass for only one cycle or for a very small number of cycles at a high frequency which tends to work more effectively in harmonically driven actuators described below .

For example in one grip of the controller a small rotary D.C. motor can be provided which includes a small mass coupled to its rotating shaft. In the other grip a large rotary motor can be provided which includes a large mass coupled to its rotating shaft. Each motor can be activated to rotate its associated mass to provide inertial forces on the housing of the device . In some embodiments the large motor can be activated to display larger amplitudes or lower frequencies of periodic inertial forces to the user and the small motor can be activated to convey higher frequencies or smaller amplitude periodic inertial forces to the user. In other embodiments the actuators and can be the same size and output forces of the same magnitude ad frequency. A range of rotation speeds can preferably be commanded or in some embodiments the voltage to one or both of the motors can be specified as on or off to only allow a single frequency and magnitude of output vibration. One or both of the motors can be activated at any one time to provide a variety of tactile effects. Individual games on the host console unit control when the motors are turned on and off by sending commands or signals to the controllers to correlate tactile feedback with game events.

In its most direct operation the ERM can be rotated in only one direction at a desired frequency to produce a vibration at that frequency. Each output frequency has a magnitude associated with it so that high frequency vibrations tend to have higher magnitudes than low frequency vibrations. Alternatively control techniques can be used to independently control magnitude and frequency of vibrations output by an ERM driven in only one direction. For example a pulse can be applied each period of the sine wave to cause oscillations at a desired frequency and magnitude.

In other embodiments the ERM s of the motors can be driven harmonically. For example bi directional amplifiers can be included to oscillate an ERM to provide periodic inertial forces and a forcing function such as a sine wave is used to control the oscillation. In many embodiments this allows more crisp and higher bandwidth vibrations to be output. Furthermore the magnitude and frequency of the vibrations can be independently controlled more directly by simply altering the control waveform. A problem with this bi directional control method is that the oscillatory control and motion of the rotating mass requires more power than driving the motor in one direction. Often only a limited amount of power is available to drive the motors in a gamepad or other handheld controller so that the maximum vibration magnitude is often a lower magnitude than is desired for many inertial tactile feedback sensations. The system however provides greater magnitude vibrations that allows a harmonic system to be much more effective as described below.

Other embodiments can include other types of actuators or actuator assemblies. For example an actuator assembly providing linear inertial forces is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 697 043 filed on Jun. 22 2000 entitled Haptic Interface Device and Actuator Assembly Providing Linear Haptic Sensations. This actuator assembly linearly oscillates an inertial mass which can be a separate mass or an actuator itself by providing a harmonic drive signal. Other harmonic and other types of actuator assemblies which can be used to provide inertial tactile sensations in accordance with an embodiment are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 854 filed on Sep. 27 2000 entitled Providing Directional Tactile Feedback and Actuator for Providing Tactile Sensations .

In an embodiment other types of interface devices can be used such as gamepads handheld or surface grounded steering wheels fishing type controllers joysticks mice trackballs adult devices grips remote controls handheld game devices flat screens styluses etc.

A visual display device is preferably connected or part of the computer and displays visual images of a graphical environment such as a game environment operating system application simulation etc. Display device can be any of a variety of types of devices such as LCD displays LED displays CRT s flat panel screens display goggles etc.

Host computer preferably implements a host application program with which a user is interacting via the interface device and other peripherals if appropriate. For example the host application program can be a video game word processor or spreadsheet Web page or browser that implements HTML or VRML instructions scientific analysis program virtual reality training program or application or other application program that utilizes input of device and outputs haptic feedback commands to the device or a different layer can output such commands such as an API or driver program on the host . The host program checks for input signals received from the electronics and sensors of device and outputs force values and or commands to be converted into forces output for device . Suitable software drivers which interface such simulation software with computer input output I O devices are available.

Several different layers of programs can be running on the host computer . For example at an application layer one or more application programs can be running such as a game program word processing program etc. Several sub layers can also be provided such as an Application Programming Interface API layer e.g. used in Windows OS from Microsoft Corp. and different driver layers. The application program can command forces directly or a driver program can monitor interactions within an application program and command haptic effects when predetermined conditions are met. In an embodiment a haptic feedback driver program can receive kinesthetic haptic commands from an application program and can map the commands to inertial tactile commands and effects and then send the necessary information to the interface device .

Interface device is coupled to host computer by a bi directional bus . The bi directional bus sends signals in either direction between host computer and the interface device. For example bus can be a serial interface bus such as an RS232 serial interface RS 422 Universal Serial Bus USB MIDI or other protocols well known to those skilled in the art or a parallel bus or wireless link. For example the USB standard provides a relatively high speed interface that can also provide power to actuators of device .

Interface device can in one or more embodiments includes a local microprocessor . Local microprocessor can optionally be included within the housing of device to allow efficient communication with other components of the device. Processor is considered local to device where local herein refers to processor being a separate microprocessor from any processors in host computer . Local also preferably refers to processor being dedicated to haptic feedback and sensor I O of device . Microprocessor can be provided with software instructions to wait for commands or requests from host decode or parse the command or request and handle control input and output signals according to the command or request. In some embodiments processor can operate independently of host computer by reading sensor signals and calculating appropriate forces from those sensor signals time signals and stored or relayed instructions selected in accordance with a high level host command. Suitable microprocessors for use as local microprocessor include the MC68HC711E9 by Motorola the PIC16C74 by Microchip and the 82930AX by Intel Corp. for example as well as more sophisticated force feedback processors such as the Immersion Touchsense Processor current versions of which are used with personal computers such as PC s. Microprocessor can include one microprocessor chip multiple processors and or co processor chips and or digital signal processor DSP capability. For example the control techniques described can be implemented within firmware of an Immersion TouchSense Processor where the local microprocessor block includes related components such as encoder processing circuitry communication circuitry and PWM circuitry as well as a microprocessor. Various techniques for playing more sophisticated periodics and other sensations such as defined by Immersion protocols with a eccentric rotating mass ERM motor can be provided in the firmware of the microprocessor .

Microprocessor can receive signals from sensors and provide signals to actuators and in accordance with instructions provided by host computer over bus . The microprocessor can provide a control signal to the actuators. In an embodiment the control signal is a PWM signal the firmware of processor can generate and send to the amplifier in actuator interface . There is preferably one control signal per actuator.

In one local control embodiment host computer provides high level supervisory commands to microprocessor over bus and microprocessor decodes the commands and manages low level force control loops to sensors and the actuator in accordance with the high level commands and independently of the host computer . This operation is described in greater detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 739 811 and 5 734 373. In the host control loop force commands are output from the host computer to microprocessor and instruct the microprocessor to output a force or force sensation having specified characteristics. The local microprocessor reports data to the host computer such as locative data that describes the position of the mouse in one or more provided degrees of freedom. The data can also describe the states of buttons or other devices of device . The host computer uses the data to update executed programs. In the local control loop actuator signals are provided from the microprocessor to the actuators and sensor signals are provided from the sensors and other input devices to the microprocessor . The microprocessor can process inputted sensor signals to determine appropriate output actuator control signals by following stored instructions. The microprocessor may use sensor signals in the local determination of forces to be output as well as reporting locative data derived from the sensor signals to the host computer.

In one or more embodiments other hardware can be provided locally to device to provide functionality similar to microprocessor . For example a hardware state machine incorporating fixed logic can be used to provide signals to the actuators and receive sensor signals from sensors and to output tactile signals according to a predefined sequence algorithm or process. Techniques for implementing logic with desired functions in hardware are well known to those skilled in the art. Such hardware can be well suited to less complex force feedback devices.

In a different host controlled embodiment host computer can provide low level force commands over bus which are directly transmitted to the actuator via microprocessor or other circuitry if no microprocessor is present . Host computer thus directly controls and processes all signals to and from the device e.g. the host computer directly controls the forces output by actuator or and directly receives sensor signals from sensor and input devices . This embodiment may be desirable to reduce the cost of the force feedback device yet further since no complex local microprocessor or other processing circuitry need be included in the device . The host can also stream force values that are sent to the actuators as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 959 613.

In the simplest host control embodiment the signal from the host to the device can be a single bit that indicates whether to pulse the actuator at a predefined frequency and magnitude. In more complex embodiments the signal from the host can include a magnitude giving the strength of the desired pulse and or a frequency. A local processor can also be used to receive a simple command from the host that indicates a desired force value to apply over time so that the microprocessor outputs the force value for the specified time period based on the one command. The host command may also specify an envelope to provide on a force output to allow force shaping as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 959 613. A combination of numerous methods described above can also be used for a single device .

Local memory such as RAM and or ROM can be coupled to microprocessor in device to store instructions for microprocessor and store temporary and other data. In addition a local clock can be coupled to the microprocessor to provide timing data which might be required for example to compute forces output by actuator. In embodiments using the USB communication interface timing data for microprocessor can be alternatively retrieved from the USB signal.

Sensors sense the position or motion of a manipulandum such as a joystick of the device and provides signals to microprocessor or host including information representative of the position or motion. In one or more embodiments the manipulandum is one or more small joysticks provided on a gamepad controller and moved by a user in two rotary or linear degrees of freedom to provide control input to the host computer. The manipulandum can also be a direction pad having four or more directions which can provide input to the host computer. The manipulandum can also be a rotary dial linear slider wheel finger receptacle cylinder or other controlling member. The manipulandum can also be the housing of the device itself as in the case of a mouse or if sensing the position of a gamepad or other controller in 3 D space. Sensors suitable for detecting motion of a joystick or other manipulandum include digital optical encoders frictionally coupled to a rotating ball or cylinder as is well known to those skilled in the art. Mechanical switches linear optical encoders potentiometers optical sensors velocity sensors acceleration sensors strain gauges or other types of sensors can also be used and either relative or absolute sensors can be provided. Optional sensor interface can be used to convert sensor signals to signals that can be interpreted by the microprocessor and or host computer as is well known to those skilled in the art.

Actuators and transmit inertial forces to the user of the device in response to signals or commands received from microprocessor and or host computer . In an embodiment two or more actuators are provided other embodiments only one actuator is provided. In one embodiment the actuators are eccentric rotating mass ERM DC motors which are rotary motors having an eccentric mass coupled to the rotating shaft of the motor. When rotated the inertial forces from the rotating mass cause an oscillation or vibration in the housing or other member coupled to the motor housing thus producing tactile sensations to the user who is holding or otherwise contacting the housing.

Alternate embodiments can employ a single actuator or two or more actuators of the same or differing sizes for providing inertial sensations or forces to the user of the device . Many different types of actuators can be used e.g. any type of actuator which can move an inertial mass such as voice coil actuators moving magnet actuators hydraulic or pneumatic actuators torquers brushed or brushless motors etc. Furthermore additional actuators can be included to provide kinesthetic force feedback in the manipulandum . Linear actuators or actuator assemblies of all types may also be used in which an inertial mass or rotor is linearly oscillated to provide vibrations.

Actuator interface can be optionally connected between actuators and and microprocessor to convert signals from microprocessor into signals appropriate to drive the actuators. Interface can include power amplifiers switches digital to analog controllers DACs analog to digital controllers ADCs and other components as is well known to those skilled in the art. For example in an embodiment the actuators and are off the shelf ERM motors which are driven unidirectionally. Uni directional voltage mode amplifiers are low cost components that can be used in actuator interface to drive the motors. In embodiment utilizing a bi directional voltage mode amplifiers appropriate amplifiers and other components may be used.

Other input devices are included in device and send input signals to microprocessor or to host when manipulated by the user. Such input devices can include buttons dials switches scroll wheels or other controls or mechanisms. Power supply can optionally be included in or coupled to device and can be coupled to actuator interface and or actuators and to provide electrical power to the actuators. In an embodiment power can be drawn from the bus e.g. using a USB or other bus. Also received power can be stored and regulated by device and thus used when needed to drive actuators and or used in a supplementary fashion. Because of the limited power supply capabilities of USB a power storage device may be required in the mouse device to ensure that peak forces can be applied as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 929 607. For example power can be stored over time in a capacitor or battery and then immediately dissipated to output a haptic sensation. Alternatively this technology can be employed in a wireless device which communicates with the host computer via wireless signals and in which case battery power can be used to drive the actuators.

The tactile feedback embodiments above can greatly benefit from any design that allows the inertial force output to be increased. A harmonic drive embodiment for example uses more power than the unidirectional embodiments and thus cannot output as high a magnitude of inertial forces such as vibrations. And although the unidirectional embodiments use less power than the bi directional method of control providing inertial forces having the same magnitude at less power is a valuable advantage and may be necessary in some circumstances where insufficient power is available to convey realistic force sensations.

A mass that provides the needed inertial reaction forces tends to fight the control signal at higher frequencies. For a harmonically driven rotational inertia a given motor s torque requirement as a function of frequency is sin where T J J mrand sin t and where T is the motor torque mis the eccentric mass r is the eccentricity of the mass distance from the center of rotation to the center of mass is the frequency and t is time. For flat acceleration response the torque requirement for the motor rises with frequency squared. For any mass eccentricity of the mass or torque constant this relationship ultimately holds.

The motors in currently available tactile feedback products are simply hard mounted to the plastic case or held in a molded pocket feature with a highly compressed piece of polyurethane foam which offers little or no additional compressibility to prevent the actuator from rattling. This tightly couples motor frame reaction forces to the plastic housing effectively adding mass to the motor. For a harmonically driven system the dynamics model for this situation looks like a mass driven with a forcing function coupled with a very high stiffness to the mass of the housing. The mass is almost a single mass comprised of the housing and motor driven by a sinusoidal forcing function. The highest force transmitted is the maximum motor frame reaction force which is given by Note that there is almost no compliance provided between the motor frame and the device housing i.e. any coupling spring between the motor frame and the housing is very stiff. Thus the system looks like a single harmonically driven mass. The motor must be driven harder as the frequency is increased. The transmitted force magnitude falls off at 40 dB decade.

According an embodiment the motor mass can be coupled to the housing by a compliant or flexible member connection or material instead of being tightly mounted to the housing as in existing devices. By mounting the motor mass in such a compliant suspension which has been tuned with consideration of the mass of the housing and the desired frequency response the vibration force felt by the user in the housing can effectively be magnified.

The two degree of freedom mechanical system 2 masses can move independently undamped model for the embodiment of is 1 where is given by where k is the spring constant Pis the peak radial force from the eccentric mass given by F mr is the natural frequency of the system and F is the force applied to Mm.

An important result of the relationships presented above is that the system designed can be tuned to achieve a desired magnification of forces. is a graph illustrating a frequency response of the tactile feedback system. The magnitude of vibrations felt by the user increases as the frequency of operation increases toward the resonant frequency natural frequency . The resonant frequency natural frequency of the system is the frequency at which the minimum energy is required to achieve the highest magnitude output where the system resonates to the greatest degree from an input. The magnitude response thus reaches a peak at the resonant frequency as frequency is increased then drops steeply when frequency is increased past the resonant frequency.

The suspended system described above is driving a dual mass with a spring in series where the system can be operated in the off resonance frequency range i.e. the motor is intentionally being operated on the positive slope of the mass and spring resonance curve. The resonance frequency of the system can be set above the desired range of harmonic operation where the motor is operated off resonance in the region below the natural frequency Con to achieve an increase in magnitude of vibrations. The system can also be operated at the resonance frequency or above the resonance frequency to achieve the magnification of forces.

Once the desired operating range of frequencies is known the shape of the curve in can be adjusted to a desired shape by picking different compliance characteristics of the compliant elements spring so that the operating range is around the resonant frequency of the system and within the magnification range of the curve. Since the housing and motor masses do not change this tuning of the system is likely remain effective over an extended period of time.

For instance a motor and mass driven harmonically at 80 Hz would transmit Newton to the housing when hard mounted with little or no compliance. Adding a suspension spring with a stiffness in the order of 17 000 N m between that same motor and housing boosts the output force to nearly two times the hard mounted level to 2 N. is a graph showing the magnification of periodic force e.g. vibration magnitude to the housing expected from such a coupled dual mass system for a frequency range of 0 to 100 Hz.

In summary greater magnitude inertial forces can be achieved from the same power mass eccentricity and actuator by selectively adding compliance to the actuator s mounting within the product. This may be a simple helical spring foam pads rubber grommet leaf spring clip or some other low cost part that locates and suspends the actuator relative to the device housing.

In one or more embodiments the damper can be included in the system to further tune the shape of the curve in . If for example the magnitude of inertial forces is too high at the end of the operating frequency range e.g. a spike damping can reduce the magnitude of the peak of the magnitude response to a smoothed desired level. The damping factor b can be increased with foam or other damping material as desired. The addition of damping does not change the natural frequency of the system.

The spring elements can take a variety of different forms including helical springs leaf springs compliant members diaphragms or other types of elements. The compliance of the springs have been chosen such that the resonance frequency of the springs is above the range of frequencies which the motor will be controlled to output. The springs are also chosen with the proper spring constant k to achieve an operating range below the natural frequency of the system and provide the resulting magnified inertial forces. Preferably the spring elements are made of a material that does not change its compliance radically with changes in temperature or other environmental characteristics e.g. suitable materials are metal or certain types of plastic but typically not foam or like materials .

In an embodiment there are four spring elements coupling the motor to the housing . In one or more embodiments the number of spring elements can differ e.g. one or many spring elements can be used. For example in an embodiment a diaphragm can connect the motor to the housing where the diaphragm provides the compliance in approximately one degree of freedom for the motor.

In one or more embodiments damping may be added to the system. Damping can be added in a variety of ways including providing a compliant piece or other damping material in parallel with one or more spring members or other compliant mechanism e.g. a piece of foam in contact with a spring member providing a viscous material such as oil on the rotating shaft of the motor or other ways known in the mechanical arts.

Another embodiment is shown in . A base mass is approximately matched to the mass of a gamepad controller. A motor having an ERM is coupled to the base by a leaf spring to provide the compliance between motor and housing. This prototype was placed on a foam layer so that an accelerometer attached to the base could be used to measure the transmitted force. In the test the base was rotated vertically so that the motor vibrations acted against the leaf spring s most compliant axis.

As expected when the motor was harmonically driven with a sine function the magnitude of the housing acceleration could be maximized by altering the leaf spring suspension stiffness. For instance by tuning spring stiffness to maximize peak output force at 80 Hz resonance it was possible to boost the acceleration measured on the base everywhere below that frequency thus providing higher magnitude vibrations. This process was repeated for several natural frequencies and the results were consistent. Different types of springs such as springs having a better or more linear compliance can be used in other embodiments.

In an embodiment the eccentric mass selection design is based on the dynamics of the product as a whole in order to take full advantage of a given actuator. Mass and motor torque choices depend on the relative masses of the suspended motor and the housing. Tuning the spring for the desired magnification effect can be analogous to impedance matching in an electric circuit. In addition harmonic driving extends the bandwidth of the motor eccentric assemblies used in inertial tactile feedback gamepads or similar devices but output falls off with increasing drive frequency. The two degree of freedom dual mass system proposed naturally compensates for this attenuation.

The above embodiments show that output inertial forces can be magnified by compliantly suspending the motor relative to the housing. This allows embodiments having low power requirements to be much more feasible since inertial forces can be output and magnified to the desired magnitude even when a relatively small amount of power is provided to rotate or otherwise activate the motor or other actuator.

The system described herein can also be used with other types of actuators besides rotary motors including linear actuators solenoids voice coil actuators etc. For example a linear actuator can include a moving element that oscillates back and forth approximately linearly to provide inertial force sensations such as vibrations.

The suspending of a motor relative to the housing is discussed in terms of the bi direction control using a harmonic drive. This can also be applied to embodiments which drive a motor unidirectionally. For example gamepad embodiments can use the system to provide greater strength vibrations for an ERM rotating in one direction. In the above described embodiment that allows independent magnitude and frequency control for a unidirectionally driven ERM pulses are provided to drive the actuator instead of a forcing function. Since the ultimate motion of the mass is oscillatory and or rotational a suspension tuned to the mass and other characteristics of the system can magnify the inertial forces output based on the oscillatory and or rotational motion.

While the subject matter has been described in terms of one or more embodiments it is contemplated that alterations permutations and equivalents thereof will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and study of the drawings. For example many different types of interface devices can be used with the control features of the present system including gamepads remote controls joystick handles mice steering wheels grips knobs or other manipulandums or devices. Furthermore certain terminology has been used for the purposes of descriptive clarity and not to limit the one or more embodiments.

