---

title: Polarization control using diffraction gratings in VCSEL waveguide grating couplers
abstract: A VCSEL waveguide grating coupler is provided such that a first and second mirror are positioned to define a resonant cavity between them. The waveguide grating coupler further includes a waveguide having a first grating formed as a part of the waveguide to couple light of a first polarization mode into the waveguide. A second grating is formed on the waveguide grating coupler and is orthogonal to the first grating. The second grating is operative to enhance the light coupled to the waveguide by creating a loss difference between light of the first polarization mode and light of a second polarization mode, so that light of the first polarization mode lases preferentially within the VCSEL.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07627018&OS=07627018&RS=07627018
owner: Opticomp Corporation
number: 07627018
owner_city: Zephyr Cove
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071226
---
The present application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 860 607 filed Jun. 3 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 535 944 which is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 136 953 filed May 1 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 829 286 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 867 719 filed May 29 2001 now abandoned which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from provisional application No. 60 207 525 filed May 26 2000.

The United States Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided by the terms of Contract No. F29601 03 C 0074 awarded by the United States Air Force Research Laboratory.

The present invention is directed generally to coupling light from one location to another and more particularly to efficiently coupling light out of a VCSEL using a waveguide and diffraction gratings.

Coupling of light from one point to another or one location to another presents several challenges particularly in optical transmission of information production of high power coherent light pump sources for lasers and the like. The challenges presented are illustrated for example in the context of developing high power vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs .

High power VCSEL arrays have been demonstrated by several research groups. Grabherr et al. reported VCSEL power densities exceeding 300 W cmfrom a 23 element array M. Grabherr et. al. Electron. Lett. vol. 34 p. 1227 1998 . Francis et al. demonstrated VCSEL power in excess of 2 W continuous wave and 5 W pulsed from a 1000 element VCSEL array D. Francis et. al. IEEE Int. Semiconductor Laser Conf. ISLC Nara Japan October 1998 . Chen et al. also reported the power density of about 10 kW cmSteradian from an array of 1600 VCSELs using a microlens array to individually collimate light from each laser H. Chen et. al. IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. vol. 11 No. 5 p. 506 May 1999 . However their beam quality at high power is still poor. A high quality beam requires a narrow linewidth single mode with high spatial and temporal coherence.

In order to produce coherent single frequency high power arrays of VCSELs the elements of one or two dimensional VCSEL arrays should be phase locked. Although the light from each individual VCSEL is coherent the phase and frequencies or wavelengths of the light from each VCSEL are slightly different and therefore uncorrelated. For such an incoherent array comprising N elements producing the same power P the on axis power in the far field is NP. However if the array as a whole can be made coherent in phase and with a single frequency the on axis power in the far field is NP and the width of the radiation pattern is reduced by 1 N. Previous efforts to phase lock arrays of VCSELs have used diffraction coupling J. R. Legar et. al. Appl. Phys. Lett. vol. 52 p. 1771 1988 . and evanescent coupling. H. J. Yoo et. al. Appl. Phys. Lett. vol. 56 p. 1198 1990 . Diffraction coupling depends on geometrical scattering of light and evanescent coupling requires that the optical field of adjacent array elements overlap. Both approaches impose restrictions on the array architecture. More importantly these existing approaches have had very limited success even in 1D edge emitting arrays where both approaches have been extensively investigated. Recently Choquette et al. has demonstrated phase locking in a VCSEL array using an anti guide approach D. K. Serkland et. al. IEEE LEOS Summer Topical Meeting p. 267 1999 .

A further challenge involves coupling light out of a source such as a VCSEL. Such coupling may for example adversely affect the amount of light which is available to be coupled out of the VCSEL. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide an efficient waveguide coupling structure particularly for use with a VCSEL.

The present invention solves the aforementioned problems by using diffraction gratings to control polarization in a VCSEL waveguide grating coupler.

In an embodiment of the present invention a waveguide grating coupler having first and second mirrors positioned to define a resonant cavity between them is provided. Within such embodiment a waveguide includes a first grating formed as a part of the waveguide to couple light of a first polarization mode into the waveguide. The waveguide further includes a second grating positioned within the resonant cavity wherein the second grating is orthogonal to the first grating and so that light coupled to the waveguide is enhanced by reducing light of a second polarization mode which is different from the first polarization mode.

In another aspect of the present invention a waveguide grating coupler having first and second mirrors is provided. Within such embodiment the first mirror is positioned with respect to the second mirror so that light travels within a resonant cavity defined between the first and second mirrors. A waveguide having a core and cladding is also provided wherein a first grating is formed as a part of the waveguide and proximate to the waveguide core and wherein the first grating couples light in a first polarization mode to the waveguide. A second grating formed as a part of the waveguide and within the cladding is also provided to create a loss of light in a second polarization mode different from the first polarization mode within the resonant cavity which results in an enhancement of the first polarization mode.

A method for coupling light is also provided which includes the steps of positioning a resonant cavity between a first and second mirror positioning a waveguide to couple light out of the resonant cavity forming a first grating as a part of the waveguide core wherein the first grating couples light having a first polarization mode to the waveguide and forming a second grating wherein the second grating is orthogonal to the first grating and wherein the second grating reduces light having a second polarization mode different from the first polarization mode within the resonant cavity.

In another aspect of the present invention a waveguide grating coupler includes a VCSEL with a waveguide incorporated into one of the VCSEL s Distributed Bragg Reflectors DBR . Within such embodiment two orthogonal gratings are integrated into the waveguide wherein one of the gratings couples light into the waveguide and the other gratings control VCSEL polarization by introducing more loss to the polarization mode that does not couple to the waveguide than the polarization mode that does couple to the waveguide.

In yet a further aspect of the present invention a waveguide grating coupler again includes a VCSEL with a waveguide incorporated into one of the VCSEL s Distributed Bragg Reflectors DBR . Within this embodiment however a single two dimensional grating is integrated into the waveguide to accomplish both polarization control and waveguide coupling.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a loss difference is imposed between the coupled polarization mode and the polarization mode that does not couple to the waveguide. Such loss differences may be in the form of diffraction loss differences between the coupled polarization mode and the polarization mode that does not couple to the waveguide.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the polarization mode that is coupled to the waveguide is the TE mode and the polarization mode that does not couple to the waveguide is the TM mode.

In accordance with the present invention in an embodiment of the waveguide grating coupler using a single two dimensional grating an asymmetry in the duty cycles for the coupled polarization mode versus the polarization mode that does not couple to the waveguide can be employed to enable the desired loss difference to be achieved. In two grating embodiments of the present invention desired loss differences may be achieved through differences in duty cycle between the TE grating the mode that is coupled and the TM the mode that is not coupled grating.

In accordance with the present invention desired loss differences may be achieved through differences in index contrast between TE and TM gratings.

In accordance with the present invention desired loss differences may be achieved through differences in the thicknesses of TE and TM gratings.

In accordance with the present invention desired loss differences may be achieved through differences in shape grating profile between TE and TM gratings.

In accordance with the present invention desired loss differences may be achieved through differences in the position on the standing wave peak between TE and TM gratings.

In accordance with the present invention desired loss differences may be achieved through differences in the position on the optical standing wave envelope between TE and TM gratings.

In accordance with the present invention desired loss differences may be achieved in embodiments employing two grating through differences in reflectivity between TE and TM gratings and in single two dimensional embodiments through differences in reflectivity between TE and TM modes.

In accordance with the present invention the waveguide may be positioned either inside or on top of the upper DBR or inside the lower DBR of a VCSEL.

In accordance with the present invention the waveguide and gratings may be composed of semiconductor materials.

In accordance with the present invention the waveguide and gratings may be composed of dielectric materials.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a VCSEL with polarization control implemented with a grating integrated inside the cavity.

Another preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a VCSEL with polarization control implemented with a grating integrated inside the upper DBR.

A further preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a VCSEL with polarization control implemented with a grating integrated inside the lower DBR.

As will be appreciated upon consideration of the following detailed description of the invention and accompanying drawings there are many advantages and features of the present invention which in turn lead to many new and useful applications of the invention.

A resonant cavity enhanced RCE waveguide grating coupler includes a surface normal waveguide grating inserted into a Fabry Perot cavity . The Fabry Perot cavity has two mirrors and between them a cavity which contains a waveguide grating layer. The mirror can be either a semiconductor layer a semiconductor distributed bragg reflector DBR or a dielectric DBR. Semiconductor DBR mirrors can be a part of an optoelectronic device particularly a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL or a photodetector. The thickness of the cavity should be designed in such a way that a phase matching condition is satisfied for resonance. Light can be coupled into out of an optical fiber through the surface normal waveguide grating. A coupling efficiency into the waveguide layer can be greatly enhanced due to the large increase of the resonant optical field introduced by the Fabry Perot cavity. Two approaches can be used to realize the RCE waveguide grating coupler hybrid and monolithic.

The output of the VCSEL is coupled through a grating into a waveguide for edge emission from the waveguide structure. By incorporating a highly reflective mirror M into a VCSEL waveguide grating system waveguide coupling can be greatly enhanced by multiple reflections between the mirror M and the mirror M. The multiple reflections cause the light to be continually directed back into the waveguide. The waveguide grating coupler then redirects this vertical light horizontally into the waveguide. Hence by superposition the waveguide coupled output power can be considerably increased.

Light from the waveguide is outcoupled through the surface normal grating and then illuminated onto the photodetector. The waveguide grating coupler functions as a beam router which directs the horizontal light into the vertical light.

The monolithic RCE VCSEL WGC structure offers a method to monolithically integrate active VCSELs and passive waveguide devices. This structure has the inherently bi directional nature which enables simultaneous coupling into two opposite directions in the waveguide. In addition by incorporating the photodetectors into the VCSEL waveguide grating structure the bi directional coupling capability can further increase the flexibility in the design of complex optical devices and circuits allowing entirely new hardware architectures to be implemented. These bi directional devices can be utilized in applications such as optical communications optical signal processing and optical networks. Some of the specific applications are optical transceivers distributed crossbar switches coherent high power sources multiplexers and demultiplexers.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a hybrid VCSEL waveguide architecture is provided by which for example coherent high power light sources can be achieved. The hybrid VCSEL waveguide structure comprises a VCSEL array and a single waveguide with a periodic grating in combination with a substrate reflector . The waveguide is attached to the VCSEL array through mechanical spacers. Optical coupling between the array elements is provided by the grating coupled waveguide. An optical waveguide with a series of gratings allows the distribution and coupling of light into and out of individual VCSEL elements thereby locking each element into a coherent single frequency array mode.

By incorporating a highly reflective substrate reflector into a VCSEL waveguide grating system waveguide coupling can be greatly enhanced by multiple reflections between the substrate reflector and the top VCSEL mirror. The multiple reflections cause the light to be continually directed back into the waveguide. The waveguide grating coupler then redirects this vertical light horizontally into the waveguide. Hence by superposition the waveguide coupled output power can be considerably increased. Unlike previous phase locking approaches the distribution waveguide method can provide phase locking by controlling a precise amount of coupling between array elements independent of the element size and element spacing. The grating coupled waveguide provides a linear array of elements which can be extended into a 2D array with the integration of a waveguide coupler.

The waveguide grating coupler is a key component of the VCSEL waveguide grating system. The performance of the system depends largely on the grating coupler. It is of considerable interest to develop predictions of the efficiency of the diffraction process in terms of the waveguide and grating parameters. The coupling efficiency of a grating coupler is dependent on several parameters such as the grating depth the index modulation of the grating and the type of grating.

Several theoretical models have been developed to calculate the waveguide grating interactions in Simplified hybrid system with VCSELs coupled through a surface normal grating into a waveguide. Waveguide Core VCSELs Collimating Lens Cladding Mirror Fiber Core 3 Patent terms of the tooth profile composition and position of the grating with respect to the optical waveguide. One model uses a modal formulation based on a Floquet Bloch approach Hadjicostas et. el. IEEE JQE Vol. 26 No. 5 p. 893 May 1990 . Another model relies on a boundary element method Evans et. al. IEEE JQE Vol. 27 No. 6 p. 1594 June 1991 and allows analysis of arbitrary grating profiles. The predictions of the Floquet Bloch model have been compared to a complete self consistent experimental measurement of the wavelength dependence of reflection transmission and outcoupling from a Bragg second order grating. Comparisons were made with the calculations for 50 duty cycle square wave gratings with tooth depths equal to the experimentally measured values ranging from 40 nm to 600 nm. Close agreement between the theoretical and experimental results were obtained Ayekavadi et. al. SPIE meeting Los Angeles January 1991 .

Several potential waveguide structures were evaluated in terms of the compositions and thicknesses of the waveguide layers using models mentioned above. A detailed design process can be found in provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 207 590 filed May 26 2000 entitled High Power Coherent Arrays of Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Lasers and non provisional patent application filed on even date herewith entitled High Power Coherent Arrays of Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Lasers inventors Peter Guilfoyle Gary S. Evans and Cheng C. Ko and assigned to the same assignee as the present application the subject matter of both is incorporated herein by reference. The waveguide structures were based on GaAs and AlGaAs semiconductor materials. They were designed for single mode and multimode operations at 850 nm. A simple model was developed to describe the coupling process in a VCSEL waveguide grating system. This model does not require rigorous mathematical descriptions and thus gives better understanding of the coupling process. The coupling characteristics were studied as a function of the diffraction efficiency and the reflectivities of the VCSEL and the waveguide substrate.

A typical three layer waveguide is shown in . Layer is the waveguide core and layers and are the cladding layers. nis the refractive index of layer i. Two different waveguide structures were initially examined asymmetric and symmetric. An asymmetric waveguide has different refractive indices in the cladding layers n n while the refractive indices in the cladding layers are the same in a symmetric waveguide n n . However an asymmetric waveguide structure was chosen for this program. It was found from the design process that a symmetric waveguide has several disadvantages over an asymmetric waveguide structure. These include the requirement of an extra epitaxial layer growth and a low optical coupling efficiency due to low index difference at the grating interface. The waveguide were designed for both singlemode and multimode operations. The number of modes in the waveguide is dependent on the thickness of the waveguide core layer as well as the index difference between the waveguide and cladding layers. A detailed description of the waveguide and grating structures can be found in the above referenced provisional and non provisional patent applications.

In order to analyze the coupling behavior in a VCSEL waveguide grating system a relatively simple model is also developed. This model does not require rigorous mathematical descriptions and thus gives better understanding of the coupling process. Such a model can help in elucidating the basic mechanisms of the coupling process and allows the calculation of the waveguide coupled output power in this structure. The coupling characteristics are studied as a function of the diffraction efficiency and the reflectivities of the VCSEL and the waveguide substrate. For simplicity we initially calculate the coupling of a single cell of the VCSEL waveguide grating system. They are then used to expand the calculation to a two element VCSEL waveguide grating system. The calculations performed for a single and a two element VCSEL waveguide grating system can be easily expanded to an N VCSEL waveguide grating system.

The waveguide coupled output power is calculated by summing all the contributions resulting from the multiple reflections at the interfaces Rand Ras shown in . The output power coupled into the z direction Ais given by 

where Rand Rare the reflectivities of the VCSEL and the substrate reflector Ais normalized to the incident beam A is the diffraction efficiency of the surface normal grating coupler. To simplify the equation infinite numerical series are approximated using the following relation 

Equation 1 is derived by assuming that the diffraction efficiency from the waveguide is the same as that from the VCSEL and there is no reflection at the grating coupler. It is also assumed that the zero order mode reflected from the substrate mirror is in phase with the component diffracted into the waveguide. The phase matching condition is determined by the thickness of the cladding layers below the waveguide. In addition the absorption and scattering losses in the waveguide are assumed to be minimal.

The output power coupled into the z direction Acan be calculated in a similar way to A. However it is easily seen that A A since in this calculation a symmetric grating is assumed. When the grating is symmetric the coupling processes are also symmetric. Therefore light from the VCSEL is coupled by the surface normal grating coupler and is split into two different directions at the same time with the same magnitude.

A two element VCSEL waveguide grating structure is shown in . Light from each source VCSEL and VCSEL is coupled by the grating coupler and diffracted equally to the left and to the right of each grating Grating and Grating . The waveguide allows the light to travel in either direction. The first order diffracted light can be transmitted through the grating and reflected back from the grating. The light can be also coupled back into the VCSELs. It is estimated that only a small amount of optical power is required to achieve phase locking in the longitudinal direction z . The light inputs to the gratings from the VCSELs are defined by Aand A. The light output on the right left side of the waveguide is designated as A A . It includes the following optical contributions light from VCSEL through Grating light from VCSEL through Gratings and and light from VCSELs and which experiences multiple reflections due to the in plane reflections of the gratings. The in plane reflectivity from the waveguide grating is designated as R.

The waveguide coupled output power is calculated by summing all the contributions described above and is given by 1 3 1 4 where

Mis the output power for a single VCSEL waveguide structure and Mis a coupling coefficient due to multiple reflections between Gratings and . K and S are the transmission and reflection coefficients of the grating respectively. It is assumed in this calculation that all the gratings are symmetric and their properties are the same.

In the output for Ahas been calculated for various Rvalues for two different Rof 0.35 a and 0.95 b . The light output is plotted versus the diffraction efficiency of the waveguide grating. In this calculation it is assumed that Ais equal to A. The values have been normalized to A. The in plane grating reflectivity Ris assumed to be zero. As shown in the output power shows a trend similar to the case of a single VCSEL waveguide structure. Waveguide coupling can be considerably enhanced by using a highly reflective mirror on the backside of the waveguide. As increases the output is increased rapidly and is saturated with a small value of for R 0.95. The output power becomes approximately twice larger in magnitude than that of the single cell. This is because of an increase in the number of VCSELs. The coupling efficiency is also increased with an increase in VCSEL reflectivity. It is expected that when Rincreases the amount of reflected light from the VCSELs will be enhanced giving rise to the increase in the coupled power. The output power coupled into the z direction Acan be calculated using Equation 4 . However it is easily seen that A A since A Ais assumed.

The calculations performed for a single and a two VCSEL waveguide grating systems can be expanded to an N VCSEL waveguide grating system. shows an N VCSEL waveguide grating structure. The light inputs to the gratings from the VCSELs are defined by A A and A. The light output on the right left side of the waveguide is designated as A A .

The light outputs from the VCSELs will travel bidirectionally in the waveguide. In one direction for example z direction the light may encounter from 1 to N gratings before reaching the right end of the waveguide. The light in the other direction z may also experience more than one grating. In the structure shown in each VCSEL makes different contributions to the output power depending on the position of the VCSEL. For example the VCSEL N makes the most contribution to A while VCSEL makes the least contribution to A. This is because light output from VCSEL should travel through N gratings to reach the right end of the waveguide while light from VCSEL N encounters only one grating. When a light beam goes through a grating the transmitted light output is decreased due to in plane reflections at the grating as well as radiation losses into the VCSEL and the substrate mirror. If there is no in plane reflection from the grating and the reflectivities of the VCSEL and substrate mirror are unity then there will be no loss in the waveguide grating system. Hence the light outputs from all the VCSELs will be diffracted into the waveguide and travel in the waveguide without loss.

Here bis the reflection coefficient of the waveguide with i gratings. Mis the coupling coefficient due to multiple reflections in an i waveguide grating system. K and S which are given in equations 7 and 8 are the transmission and reflection coefficients of a single grating respectively.

The calculation was performed using a Mathcad program to obtain the coupled output power for various parameters. In the waveguide coupled output power is plotted as a function of diffraction efficiency of the grating coupler. The simulations were performed for the number of VCSELs from 1 to 1000 for R 0.95 R 0.35 and R 0. It was assumed that all the VCSEL outputs are the same A A . . . A. As shown in the graph the coupled output power is increased with the number of VCSELs as well as with the diffraction efficiency. A larger number of VCSELs produce more diffracted light coupled into the waveguide and hence increase the out put power. However as seen in the figure the coupled output is saturated to a small value with a small number of VCSELs. For example the output is saturated with only 10 VCSELs for of 0.5. Increasing the number of VCSELs beyond 10 will not cause the output power to be further increased. As the number of VCSELs or gratings is increased the more loss is introduced into the system. Since the reflectivities of the VCSELs and the substrate mirror are not unity there are always radiation losses into the air via the waveguide substrate and the VCSEL.

When the number of VCSELs increases the waveguide coupled light from those VCSELs will be increased. In order for the light generated from those VCSELs to contribute to the output the coupled light should be larger than the loss that is introduced into the system by those VCSELs. As previously mentioned the optical contributions of the VCSELs to Ais position dependent. Therefore the light will experience more loss as it travels through more gratings in the waveguide. For this case of R 0.35 most of the light is lost through the waveguide substrate into the air.

In the coupled output power Ais replotted as a function of the number of VCSELs for different diffraction efficiencies of 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 and 1. The figure shows clearly the effect of the number of VCSELs on the output power. The output is rapidly saturated for a small number of VCSELs. Ahas a maximum value of 2.8 for 1. As decreases the number of VCSELs limiting the output becomes larger. For example the number of VCSELs is increased from 10 for 1 to 30 for 0.1.

As discussed previously waveguide coupling can be considerably enhanced by incorporating a highly reflective mirror into the waveguide structure. The substrate mirror redirects light emitted toward the substrate thereby increasing the coupling into the waveguide. shows the coupled output power as a function of the substrate mirror reflectivity R. In this calculation it is assumed that 0.1 R 0.95 and R 0. From this figure it is clearly seen that there is a strong dependence of the coupling efficiency into the waveguide on the substrate mirror reflectivity. The coupled output power is increased with the substrate mirror reflectivity. For the case of 100 VCSELs it increases from 1 for R 0.35 up to 7.5 for R 0.95.

In the coupled output power is replotted versus the number of VCSELs for different diffraction efficiencies. The number of VCSELs has a pronounced effect on the coupling efficiency. The output is saturated with increasing the number of VCSELs. For a small the output is slowly saturated for a large number of VCSELs. However as increases the number of VCSELs limiting the output becomes smaller. Unlike the previous example in the coupled output exhibits a monotonous decrease with for a large number of VCSELs. The output power approaches 7.5 for 0.1 with 100 VCSELs while it reaches only 2.8 for 1 with 15 VCSELs.

Although waveguide coupling can be enhanced by using a highly reflective mirror on the backside of the waveguide structure the power coupling efficiency is still relatively low. There are several ways to enhance the coupled output power. One possible method is to put a highly reflective coating on one of the facets of the waveguide structure which is not the output port. As previously discussed the coupled output powers into z and z directions are the same if all VCSEL inputs A A and A are the same. That is A A. The idea is to use a highly reflective mirror to reflect back Ato the waveguide. The output power coupled into z direction can be enhanced by multiple reflections between the facet reflector and the waveguide gratings. The waveguide structure should be designed in such a way that the reflected light from the facet of the waveguide is added in phase with the guided modes in the waveguide.

The coupled output power can be also enhanced by using two dimensional 2D arrays of the VCSEL waveguide structure as shown in . The planar waveguides for each row of VCSELs are connected together using a waveguide coupler. From the calculations there is an optimum number of VCSELs that can be used to obtain a reasonable coupling efficiency. By increasing the array size the output power can be greatly increased.

A hybrid waveguide structure was integrated with a diffractive optical interconnect element or DOIE array and a 1 5 VCSEL array. The single element coupling demonstration was crucial in determining the optimal waveguide structure. A series of waveguide structures were fabricated with various periods and grating depths. Grating depths and spacings were based on a spectral evaluation and characterization of candidate set of VCSELs. An 8 8 VCSEL ion implanted VCSEL array was used in the evaluation with a 1 5 array of elements selected. The spectral analysis was carried out at Opticomp Corporation OCC on selected VCSELs and the results were then forwarded to SMU where a candidate set of epitaxial gratings were determined and fabricated. Gratings were then bracketed around the mean average wavelength.

This spectral analysis was required in order to determine grating periods. After the data was recorded the results were submitted to SMU for grating period design. Spectral data measurements were obtained for a 1 5 linear array of VCSELs . The lasers were all powered on at the same time using a printed circuit board with eight channel CMOS driver chips. Output radiation was coupled into a multimode fiber and transmitted into a HP model 70950B optical spectrum analyzer.

Two waveguide epitaxial wafers were grown using molecular beam epitaxy MBE at Ohio State University by Robert Sacks. show the epitaxial structures. The epitaxial wafers are based on GaAs and AlGaAs semiconductor materials. An AlAs layer was first grown on a GaAs substrate. This AlAs layer serves as an etch stop layer for the removal of the GaAs substrate. A thin GaAs layer was then grown and followed by an AlGaAs cladding layer. Finally an AlGaAs waveguide core layer was grown. The thickness of the waveguide core was determined to be 0.5 m and 8 m for single mode and multi mode waveguides respectively.

The GaAs epitaxial samples were cleaved into 10 samples. The samples were cleaned with acetone and rinsed with methanol and DI water and dried. The samples were then spin coated with a Shipley resist at 4500 rpm for 20 seconds and then softbaked for 90 seconds. The holographic grating fabrication process at SMU which was modified from a previous sequence Evans Carson Hammer Butler Grating Surface Emitting Lasers Academic Press New York 1993 Heflinger Kirk Corero and Evans Proceeding of SPIE Vol. 269 1981 comprises splitting a laser beam into two beams which are recombined at an angle producing an interference pattern which is recorded in the photoresist. The light source used in this holographic process is an ultraviolet argon ion laser with an emission wavelength of 351.1 nm. The beam is spatially filtered expanded using 4 inch diameter optics and then collimated. By adjusting the angle between the two beams the period of the resulting standing wave can be adjusted from 180 nm to 1000 nm. After exposure the wafer containing the photoresist is developed and the resulting photoresist grating pattern is replicated in the wafer surface using a dry etching process using a reactive ion etcher. The dry etching process does not limit the orientation of the device relative to crystal planes. It has several advantages over other processing techniques such as uniformity control and the capability for increased grating depths.

The samples were placed in an oxygen plasma ash to remove any remaining photoresist. The samples were lapped and edges cleaved for ease of evaluation and coupling. Gratings were fabricated with the following periods as shown in . The pitch was varied every 20 in order to bracket the optimal performance given a specific of 844.8 nm.

A testbed was fabricated to evaluate the waveguide grating structures. The testbed used a specialized PCB board which contains integrated laser drivers and filtering components to drive VCSEL arrays. The output radiation was then collimated with an diffractive optical interconnect element DOIE . The DOIE was mounted to a carrier and mounted to a multiaxial positioner. The collimated laser beam was incident on the waveguide. The VCSELs were set to 5.0 V. A 400 microscope was placed to examine the cleaved edge of the waveguide. The beam was incident on the waveguide 1 mm from the edge of the waveguide. A CCD camera was placed so as to resolve the microscope image. All gratings were taken at the same power levels and angular positions.

The waveguides were attached to a glass slide and mounted. Incident VCSEL radiation was positioned at 500 mm 1.5 m and 2.5 mm. An image was then recorded at each distance for evaluation.

Ten waveguide gratings were evaluated OSU 884 1 OSU 884 10 . The grating OSU 884 10 shows the best waveguide results. The grating periods were not optimized for the OCC VCSEL. The output VCSEL light is faintly visible to the CCD camera in both photos. Gratings OSU 884 1 9 show markedly poor results due to the fact that not enough light could be coupled. However the OSU 884 10 grating demonstrates that waveguiding is being accomplished through the displayed increase in intensity. The OSU 884 10 grating shows the corner of the waveguide while the OSU 884 8 grating shows the middle of the waveguide. The OSU 884 10 grating also shows scattering at the cleaved interface due to surface imperfections. The OSU 884 9 grating shows a series of the same grating with a different beam position. All of the samples were tested at the same positions and VCSEL power levels. It was determined from these results that another set of waveguides should be generated with grating pitches 100 beyond the grating spacing of 2493.2 . This will further confirm which gratings are optimally suited for the OCC VCSEL array.

A well known approach to increase the performance in an RF photonic link is to use the method of cascading lasers C. Cox RF Photonic Testbed and Direct Modulation of Cascaded Laser MURI on RF Photonic Materials and Devices Review Oct. 22 1998 when implementing direct modulation. Laser relative intensity noise RIN dominates over other laser noises and must be minimized. The method of cascading lasers increases the signal power for a given current linearly while adding noise sources orthogonally. For the direct modulation topology the gain in an optical link is determined by several parameters G L 

where is the RF to optical conversion efficiency laser slope efficiency L is the total loss in the fiber link and is the optical to RF conversion efficiency detector efficiency at the receiver end. The noise figure is proportional to 1 .

A method is provided which utilizes a VCSEL cascade coupled to a waveguide as a hybrid structure . The system decreases RIN and increases power. The VCSEL array outputs are collimated with a DOIE lens and coupled through surface normal grating couplers to generate the optical source. The VCSELs are flip chip bonded to a silicon on sapphire SOS CMOS smart pixel array in order to drive the lasers at high speeds. The cascade VCSEL waveguide may be coupled to a single mode fiber using V groove methods for attachment.

Another major challenge in RF photonics is the generation of high resolution 0.5 ps reliable time delays for RADAR beam forming Private Communication with W. M. Miceli ONR September 1998 . Current approaches that utilize different lengths of fiber are cumbersome for military applications. A more efficient solution uses a VCSEL waveguide with large fan in to achieve a reliable time delay for RADAR beam forming . Given the index of refraction of a semiconductor waveguide is 3.3 the required VCSEL spacing can be obtained by multiplying the speed of light in the waveguide by the required time delay 300 10 3.3 0.5 10 . This gives the required VCSEL spacing of 50 m in order to achieve a time delay of 0.5 ps. If the VCSELs are flip chip bonded onto SOS CMOS smart pixels the VCSEL output signals can be simultaneously produced which will cause a reliable time delay within the optical waveguide. illustrates a Cascade VCSEL array coupled into an optical waveguide. SOS technology may currently be designed for 5 GHz applications. With future reductions in gate widths 10 GHz applications can be expected.

By coupling one dimensional and two dimensional VCSEL arrays into a waveguide the power level at the optical output of the waveguide may ideally approach the sum of all VCSEL inputs. This is attractive for a number of applications which involve coupling multiple VCSEL sources into a single mode fiber. The application of free space optical interconnect solutions for the coupling of single mode lasers into a single mode fiber is tenuous. However the superposition of VCSEL emission sources utilizing optical waveguides appears attractive especially when coupling into a single mode fiber is required.

Of particular interest is the EDFA pump laser. A schematic drawing of a complete EDFA pump module with the laser source is shown in . A partial list of EDFA specifications is summarized in Private discussion Dr. Steve Bashden OptiGain October 1998 . The 200 mW power levels are currently satisfied with single stripe edge emission devices. Multiple VCSELs connected in parallel in one or two dimensions as shown in may potentially achieve similar or higher power levels. For example an array geometry of 10 10 VCSELs each having an output power of 2 mW could theoretically achieve 200 mW output into the fiber through the waveguide assuming 100 coupling efficiency. Regarding the physical size if the VCSELs are spaced on 50 mm centers the entire array would occupy a space 500 m 500 m to achieve 200 mW. Initial calculations indicate that the hybrid waveguide configuration can achieve 65 coupling efficiency. This would require more power from each VCSEL 3 mW or an additional 30 VCSELs. Substantially higher power levels should be achievable out of the waveguide. Initial calculations indicate that the 1550 nm single mode fiber multimode at 978 has a capacity of 500 mW before undesired nonlinear effects become significant.

This pump source configuration potentially offers increased reliability. In general ion implanted VCSELs demonstrate 1 10hours mean time to failure MTTF R. A. Morgan et al. Reliability study of 850 nm VCSELs for data communications 34th Annual Proceedings of International Reliability Physics Symposium pp. 203 10 1996 . Should one or more VCSELs stop lasing the decrease in output power is not significant. In fact several devices would have to fail before the amplifier performance is degraded below the required specifications. This slow failure mode would not be considered catastrophic. Consequently significant down time may be avoided and the pump laser replacement may be scheduled. Infant mortality and yield are also substantially improved thereby reducing cost. For example if 10 of the VCSELs do not meet the required specifications when fabricated the array may still be used. Another advantage is increased thermal stability. VCSELs have approximately a 3 1 decrease in thermal drift compared to stripe designs. On the basis of pump wavelength and required tolerances VCSELs can be utilized as 980 nm pump sources for conventional EDFAs.

The VCSEL waveguide structure can be used in commercial applications which implement fan out and fan in architectures A B . Using a one point to many points architecture fan out clock signals can be distributed on a single chip or between chips . Logic NOR gates can be realized with the many points to one point architecture fan in . By combining fan in and fan out in the same waveguide a many points to many points architecture can be achieved . This fan in fan out represents a programmable gate array which can implement feedback.

Similar utilization of fan out as depicted in has been proposed for VCSEL waveguide interconnects for on chip data clock distribution and die to die interconnects for board level or MCM multi chip module level interconnects Chen et al. 1 to 12 surface normal three dimensional optical interconnects APL Vol. 63 No. 14 October 1993 Chen et al. Equal Fanout Optical Interconnects Using Dupont Photopolymer Films SPIE Vol. 3005 February 1997 Distribution IEEE PTL Vol. 8 No. 8 pp. 1038 40 August 1996 This configuration represents a one to many interconnect scheme. It is predicted that the fan out VCSEL waveguide interconnect systems will represent the next generation of commercialized optoelectronic interconnect products. By comparison today s commercially available state of the art VCSEL waveguide interconnect structures such as the POLO interconnect developed under DARPA sponsorship demonstrate a one point to one point parallel interconnect 8 32 channels .

The many points to one point fan in topology which is shown in may in fact represent the next architectural evolution after the one point to many points configuration. This is referred to for digital signals as a smart interconnect. If the input signals or bits are represented in complementary notation and the output is inverted then the system is effectively an N input AND gate by DeMorgan s Theorem OptiComp patent Global Interconnect Architecture for Optical Computer U.S. Pat. No. 5 297 068 1994 OptiComp patent General Purpose Optical Computer U.S. Pat. No. 5 267 183 1993 OptiComp patent Combinatorial Logic Based Optical Computing Method U.S. Pat. No. 4 864 524 1989 . Consider the parallel optical bus configuration shown in . Utilizing the fan in only optical scheme the system may be configured as a non blocking multichannel Gigabit Ethernet crossbar which requires a separate controller channel.

Each processor memory subsystem has a dedicated receiver and its own dedicated waveguide channel as shown in . All waveguide channels cross over each processor memory smart pixel chip. Each processor memory smart pixel chip has N transmitter VCSELs one for each waveguide channel except for the receive and the control channel. In this configuration the controller can route the signal from any transmit processor memory element to any receive processor memory element. Note that none of the receivers fully utilize DeMorgan s Theorem due to the fact that there is only one signal on each channel at any time.

The complete fan in fan out system shown in configures the crossbar to be able to become controller free. This architecture could be configured as a fully non blocking gigabit Ethernet crossbar anarchy. Each channel senses every other channel and effectively waits for a go signal. Many other applications may be implemented with the global waveguide interconnect system which is effectively a programmable gate array with feedback.

Resonant cavity enhanced VCSEL waveguide grating coupler was proposed to achieve coherent high power light sources. The surface normal grating is utilized to achieve the desired coupling light from the VCSEL into the waveguide. The waveguide structures were based on GaAs and AlGaAs semiconductor materials. They were designed for both singlemode and multi mode operations at 850 nm.

A mathematical model has been presented to describe diffraction into a waveguide from a normally incident light from the VCSEL. From the calculations it was found that the coupling efficiency can be considerably enhanced by using a substrate mirror. The coupling efficiency has a pronounced dependence on the reflectivity of the substrate mirror. The substrate mirror redirects light emitted toward the substrate thereby increasing the coupling into the waveguide. Therefore the waveguide grating structure with a highly reflective mirror allows the use of low diffraction efficiency for large coupling efficiency of the VCSEL into the waveguide.

Embodiments described above advantageously include a waveguide and surface normal gratings. Accordingly an optical coupler has been provided comprising first and second mirrors wherein the first mirror is positioned with respect to the second mirror so that a resonant cavity is defined between them a waveguide structure positioned in the resonant cavity and including a surface normal grating structure and wherein a thickness of the resonant cavity is selected so that a phase matching condition is satisfied for resonance in the resonant cavity.

In one embodiment at least one of the first and second mirrors is formed from a structure in an optoelectronic device. Alternatively at least one of the first and second mirrors is formed from a semiconductor layer.

In another embodiment at least one of the first and second mirrors is formed as a semiconductor distributed bragg reflector. Alternatively at least one of the first and second mirrors is formed as a dielectric distributed bragg reflector.

At least one of the first and second mirrors can be a mirror in a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL structure. Also at least one of the first and second mirrors is a mirror in a photodetector structure in a different embodiment.

The first and second mirrors and waveguide structure can be formed in a hybrid structure or a monolithic structure.

The surface normal grating structure is shaped so that first order modes of light incident upon the surface normal grating structure are coupled into the waveguide while zero order modes are reflected out into the resonant cavity and reflected by the mirror.

Coupling into and out of a waveguide using a grating is a method provided and described above involving transfer of free space data to waveguides in optoelectronic integrated circuits OEICs . Waveguide gratings can perform a large variety of functions such as reflection filtering deflection and input output coupling. A periodically modulated grating can perform holographic wavefront conversion. As a coupler the grating converts a waveguide mode into a radiation mode or vice versa. Surface normal grating couplers direct light perpendicularly into and out of the waveguide. The combination of the waveguide and surface normal grating couplers permits arrays of VCSELs to be used to create an optical source with high right angle mode output power. Arrays of VCSELs can then be used as high power light sources for use in a variety of military and commercial applications such as free space optical communications on chip chip to chip communications RF photonics laser radar and optical pump sources for solid state and fiber lasers.

In addition to the methods described above other techniques can be used to couple light from a device into a waveguide and vice versa. Another method involving photonic crystals as opposed to diffraction gratings is described below with reference to . The description above relating to coupling light from a device into a waveguide involving diffraction gratings is incorporated here and not repeated as being applicable to this discussion and the present invention involving photonic crystal couplers.

Light from a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL can be coupled into a waveguide using a photonic crystal coupler. The photonic crystal coupler comprises a structure with a periodic index variation usually formed by etching features within the semiconductor in either one or two dimensions. The photonic crystal coupler also includes a defect comprising a spatial shift in the index variation either in one or two dimensions. For example a photonic crystal coupler can be realized by forming a simple one dimensional grating with a defect.

Altering the design of the structure can change the characteristics of the photonic crystal coupler. Typically the periodic index variations are chosen to have a period of the free space wavelength divided by the effective index of the waveguide. Thus the operating wavelength of the coupler is determined by the period of the index variations. The duty cycles of these periodic index variations are chosen to provide the desired operating characteristics including but not limited to coupling efficiency and polarization control. Finally the placement of the photonic crystal coupler within the device structure can also be varied. illustrates a photonic crystal coupler with the waveguide placed on the top surface of a VCSEL. The VCSEL illustrated in includes top and bottom DBRs around an active region wherein the waveguide with photonic crystal coupler are located above the top DBR. This arrangement would have advantages specifically the removal of the epitaxial regrowth process. Alternatively illustrates a photonic crystal coupler with the waveguide placed internally within the top DBR.

The described photonic crystal coupler technology can be used for other devices as well. The above describes a photonic crystal coupler for coupling light out of a VCSEL into a waveguide and a photonic crystal coupler can also be used to couple light out of a waveguide into a resonant cavity detector. Also integrated device structures can be manufactured that contain VCSELs detectors waveguides and photonic crystal couplers.

In accordance with the present invention it has been discovered that by controlling certain polarization modes of light within a VCSEL selected polarization modes of light may be more efficiently coupled out of the VCSEL and into a waveguide.

As described earlier VCSEL waveguide grating coupler couples light out of a VCSEL cavity via diffraction gratings formed such as by etching onto a waveguide. For such couplers it has been found that the polarization of light that couples efficiently to the waveguide has its electric field orthogonal to the waveguide and parallel to the grating used for coupling. For illustrative purposes the transverse electric TE polarization modes will hereinafter be referred to as the polarization modes that couple efficiently into such a waveguide. Accordingly the VCSEL polarization modes orthogonal to the coupling grating will hereinafter be referred to as the transverse magnetic TM modes of the VCSEL which do not couple efficiently to the waveguide. It should be appreciated that the present invention is not limited to the specific TE TM relationship described here as an example of the present invention and that other configurations where light having other polarization modes are efficiently coupled to a waveguide may be designed within the scope and spirit of the present invention.

In a cross sectional perspective of a waveguide grating coupler is shown with coupling gratings oriented parallel to the x axis. Here for light traveling in the z direction and having a TE component parallel to the X axis a TM component will be orthogonal to the TE component and thus orthogonal to the X axis. The TE component couples into the waveguide since it is parallel to the grating. Accordingly the light that couples efficiently into the waveguide will be referred to as TE polarized. In turn TM polarized light will be orthogonal to the TE polarization mode and to coupling grating and therefore will not couple efficiently through coupling grating to the waveguide.

Since only TE polarized light is efficiently coupled to the waveguide a greater loss is introduced for TE polarized light relative to TM polarized light within the VCSEL cavity. As in any laser structure though the polarization modes with the lowest loss will lase preferentially. In this example since the TM polarization modes will lase preferentially the TE modes are suppressed. However because only the TE modes couple efficiently to the waveguide and their lasing is suppressed little light is available for coupling into the waveguide. In accordance with the present invention to make the VCSEL waveguide grating coupler work more efficiently polarization modes are controlled so that the VCSEL is forced to lase TE polarized light.

Polarization control in VCSELs can be achieved by a number of different techniques each of which introduce an anisotropic gain or loss into the VCSEL cavity. Anisotropic gain for example can be realized using 311 substrates H. Uenohara et. al. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics vol. 5 pp. 537 545 1999. or asymmetric current injection G. Verschaffelt et. al. IEEE Photonics Technology Letters vol. 12 pp. 945 947 2000. while anisotropic cavity losses can be achieved using asymmetric cavities K. D. Choquette et. al. IEEE Photonics Technology Letters vol. 6 pp. 40 42 1994. or surface gratings to attain anisotropic reflectivities J. H. Ser et. al. Applied Physics Letters vol. 66 pp. 2769 2771 1995 . Photonic crystal structures have also been used to control polarization. None of these techniques however address the need for controlling VCSEL polarization so that light may be efficiently coupled into a waveguide.

In one embodiment of the present invention a second diffraction grating is added which forces the VCSEL to lase in one polarization mode by introducing a polarization dependent loss into the cavity for the other polarization mode. A preferred embodiment of such a structure is illustrated in . In waveguide grating coupler a first mirror and a second mirror are positioned so that a resonant cavity is defined between them. Waveguide grating coupler also includes waveguide wherein coupling grating and controlling grating are formed such as by etching into waveguide and orthogonal to each other as illustrated.

In a preferred embodiment light resonates within the cavity and is coupled into waveguide via coupling grating . Light is again assumed to propagate in the z direction wherein coupling grating is oriented parallel to the x axis to couple TE polarized light into waveguide . Controlling grating is positioned orthogonal to coupling grating to diffract TM polarized light. For this particular example since coupling grating is oriented parallel to the x axis controlling grating is oriented parallel to the y axis as shown. Further controlling grating is formed relative to coupling grating to introduce a loss difference between the TE polarization mode and TM polarization mode where the loss in the TM polarized light is greater than the loss in the TE polarized light.

In a preferred embodiment controlling grating is designed to diffract TM polarized light such that the resultant loss is higher than the loss of TE polarized light due to coupling. By making the loss of TM polarized light relatively higher than the loss of TE polarized light TE polarized light lases preferentially within the resonant cavity. This preferential lasing thus results in an increased amount of TE polarized light within the resonant cavity which improves the coupling efficiency of TE polarized light into waveguide .

In a preferred embodiment the diffraction gratings are positioned as illustrated in wherein waveguide is shown to have a core an upper cladding and a lower cladding . In particular coupling grating is placed in the proximity of waveguide core to enable the diffracted TE polarized light to be coupled into waveguide . And although controlling grating can be placed anywhere in the VCSEL cavity the preferred location is the lower cladding of waveguide as shown.

In cross sectional views illustrating structural differences between coupling grating relative to controlling grating are respectively provided according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated coupling grating and controlling grating each have a respective period and and depth and . In a preferred embodiment wherein coupling grating and controlling grating are positioned as illustrated in the respective duty cycles for each grating are designed to be about 50 as shown. Within such embodiment the respective depths and of each grating are designed to be different. For example individual coupling and controlling gratings may have respective depths and of 20 nm and 35 nm. These depth proportions are roughly illustrated in . In general for coupling and controlling gratings composed of the same material controlling grating depth should be greater than or equal to 1.5 times the coupling grating depth .

In an alternative embodiment the diffraction gratings may be combined or superimposed as illustrated in . Within such embodiment the two orthogonal gratings form a single two dimensional grating which may be placed anywhere in the proximity of waveguide core but preferably on the surface of waveguide core . As a result single two dimensional grating serves the dual function of both controlling polarization and coupling light into waveguide . Within such embodiment the preferred loss difference between the TM and TE polarizations can be most easily achieved by selecting appropriate duty cycles for the controlling grating component and the coupling grating component of two dimensional grating i.e. the gratings parallel to the y axis would be the controlling grating component whereas the gratings parallel to the x axis would be the coupling grating while keeping the depths equal.

It should be appreciated that a particular grating has its highest coupling or diffraction efficiency with a duty cycle of fifty percent. As the duty cycle is increased to higher than fifty percent or decreased to lower than fifty percent the coupling efficiency will decrease. For example a grating with a duty cycle of fifty percent will have a higher coupling efficiency than a grating with a duty cycle of either forty or sixty percent. Therefore in a preferred embodiment of either the separate grating design shown in or the single two dimensional grating embodiment shown in the TM grating would preferably have a duty cycle of fifty percent whereas the TE grating would preferably have a more asymmetric duty cycle of forty or sixty percent for example.

It should be further appreciated that alternative embodiments may exist wherein the waveguide is not placed within the resonant cavity. Within such embodiments the coupling grating remains formed such as by etching onto the waveguide to form a waveguide coupler while the controlling grating is formed such as by etching somewhere in the resonant cavity to control the polarization. One such embodiment is shown in wherein first mirror second mirror controlled active region and waveguide coupler are assembled such that waveguide coupler is located on top of first mirror as shown. In other embodiments however waveguide coupler may be placed within first mirror as shown in on top of second mirror as shown in or within second mirror as shown in .

The improved coupling efficiency of the present invention is demonstrated by comparing with . In for example TE and TM polarization light current characteristics for waveguide grating coupler structures with a single internal TE or TM grating are shown respectively. In each case the polarization ratio is also provided to illustrate how one of the polarization modes is effectively suppressed by the internal grating. In for example it is shown that a TE grating effectively suppresses the TE polarization while shows that a TM grating effectively suppresses the TM polarization.

In TE and TM polarization light current measurements are shown for a waveguide grating coupler structure with two orthogonal gratings wherein measurements are respectively taken from the top of the structure and out of the waveguide. In each case the polarization ratio is also provided to illustrate how the loss difference between the two gratings effectively suppress the TM polarization. In typical VCSEL structures round trip loss differences in the range of 0.1 to 1 are introduced for the TM polarization as compared to the TE polarization. Since the TM polarization is suppressed the VCSEL waveguide grating coupler lases predominately in the TE polarization which couples efficiently to the waveguide. A further illustration of these results are shown in wherein light current voltage measurements out the top and out the right and left sides of the waveguide are provided.

For the results summarized in coupling and controlling gratings having depths of 20 nm and 35 nm respectively were used and each had a period of approximately 650 nm. Both gratings were composed of TiOcovered by SiO with the coupling grating formed on silicon oxynitride and the controlling grating formed on silicon dioxide.

In general the loss of TM polarized light should be greater than or equal to 1.5 times the loss of TE polarized light in the cavity. This loss difference can be implemented by altering the design of the waveguide grating coupler structure to manipulate differences in diffraction loss and or reflectivity. Changing the index contrast thickness shape and or duty cycle of the controlling grating relative to the coupling grating for example can introduce the desired loss difference. This loss difference can also be realized by using the proper positions on standing wave peak and or positions on optical standing wave envelope.

The present invention has been described above with reference to several different embodiments. However those skilled in the art will recognize that changes and modifications may be made in the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Furthermore while the present invention has been described in connection with a specific processing flow those skilled in the art will recognize that a large amount of variation in configuring the processing tasks and in sequencing the processing tasks may be directed to accomplishing substantially the same functions as are described herein. These and other changes and modifications which are obvious to those skilled in the art in view of what has been described herein are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

