---

title: Driverless printing system, apparatus and method
abstract: Systems, apparatuses and methods for submitting a print job to a specified printer are provided which include means for and/or steps of (i) converting a document created with a specific application and to be printed, into a print-ready form that is independent of the specific printer and independent of computing platform, and (ii) submitting the print job to the specified printer, without using a printer driver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189192&OS=09189192&RS=09189192
owner: RICOH COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09189192
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070320
---
This application relates to submitting print jobs. In particular the application relates to a system apparatus and method for submitting an electronic document or file for printing without using a printer driver.

In the current information age there are often discussions of the desirableness of a paperless society. However notwithstanding such discussions there remains a great need by users of computers and other information terminals that is any of the various conventional devices which have a need to print on demand such as personal computers notebook computers workstations other types of computers kiosks PDAs other information appliances etc. for printing functionality. Therefore devices having printing or plotting functionality such as printers copiers multi function devices etc. continue to play a significant role in information technology IT at home and at work. The terms printer and printer device are used hereinafter generically to include any output device having a printing or plotting functionality and include multi function devices having a copy and or scanning functionality in addition to the printing or plotting functionality.

A computing device typically submits an electronic document or file to a specified printer by use of a pre installed print driver using facilities provided by the operating system and the application that was used to create the file.

Typically a print driver plugs into the infrastructure within the underlying print system provided by the operating system of a computing device. Drivers are generally provided by device manufacturers and the drivers support specific devices specific features and certain operating systems.

For example a computing device having only a print driver for printing to a printer of printer type number one in most instances will not be able to print with a printer of printer type number two. Similarly a computing device running an operating system OS of OS type number one cannot use a print driver supporting OS type number two but not supporting OS type number one . As another example a computing device having only a print driver supporting single sided printing but not supporting duplex printing to a specific printer will not be able to perform duplex printing to the specified printer even if the specific printer has duplex printing capabilities.

The limitations of print drivers make it difficult for users of any computing device to submit any file to any printer. It is unlikely that any one computing device has print drivers for each printing device. This is a real constraint in the current information age in which information terminals have mobility and network capabilities that allow the terminals to receive and or download files from heterogeneous sources and allow the terminal to navigate to previously unvisited IT environments having printing devices for which the terminal does not have print drivers.

It is also unlikely that any such computing device has all of the applications needed for all files that might require printing. Further even if a computing device has an application of one version does not necessarily ensure that the computing device can print or at least obtain an acceptable printout of a file created by a different version of the application.

Mobile or hand held devices often do not have an operating system that supports printer drivers printer ports or many of the applications in typical use today. While unable to create many file types they can often receive or download these files by means like electronic mail web browsers etc.

In addition installation of print drivers requires knowledge of the target printing device access to the drivers privileges to install drivers on the information terminal and often overwhelms the user resulting in frustrations help desk calls and unpredictable results.

This disclosure describes methods apparatuses and systems for computing devices to submit files to printers regardless of operating system application availability or driver support.

In one aspect of this disclosure a system can be provided with capabilities to discover unknown printing devices and provide the results of the discovery to the user.

In another aspect of this disclosure a system can be provided with capabilities to discover the capabilities of the printing devices and describe them to the user.

Further the subject matter of this disclosure also can include providing capabilities to the user to specify options to be applied to a print job.

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosure an apparatus and or method for example implemented on one or more information terminals configured through an appropriate program of instructions to print to a selected printer in a printing system for submitting a print job to a specified printer is configured to i convert a document created with a specific application and to be printed into a print ready form that is independent of the specific printer and independent of computing platform and ii submit the print job to the specified printer without using a printer driver.

For example such features in whole or in part may be implemented as a print application provided through a network to an information terminal enabling a user to print a print job on a specified printer without using a printer driver.

In describing exemplary embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the subject matter of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

This patent specification describes tools in the form of methods apparatuses and systems for printing from any platform to any printer without using a print driver. The tools convert the document created with a specific application and to be printed to a print ready format that is ready to be printed independent of the specific printer and independent of computing platform. Such print ready files can be printed on any of various different printers and can be submitted without using the specific application that created the original document.

In a preferred embodiment the user is provided with means to create a job ticket or retrieve a previously stored job ticket that specifies selected output options. The print ready file and the job ticket collectively define the print job and are submitted to the specified printer without using a printer driver. The print ready file and the job ticket are independent of the specific printer and independent of computing platform and can be individually stored and perhaps archived and can be utilized for another print job sent from any information terminal regardless of the computing platform of the information terminal and regardless of the target printing device. Further said any information terminal need not have the specific application software with which the original document was created in order to submit a print job constituted by the print ready file and a job ticket. In addition a job ticket can be used with each of multiple print ready files to obtain printed documents each having the same output format.

The drawings show examples of implementations of the subject matter of this patent disclosure in several computing environments. However it should be understood that the subject matter of this disclosure can be utilized by any computing device including but not limited to PDAs cell phones personal notebook and workstation computers kiosks other information terminals etc. In addition the subject matter of this disclosure might be provided as services in a modular fashion by other devices connected by a communication network.

A first exemplary embodiment in which the subject matter of this disclosure is embodied in a print application installed on a computing device will be described below with reference to .

The personal computer is shown in to include a print application including a job submission part a document conversion part a discovery part a job ticket generation part and a user interface . However any information terminal connected to the network can be configured with a print application similar to .

The document conversion part is configured to convert an electronic document created with a specific application software and to be printed into a print ready form that is independent of the specific printing device and independent of computing platform. Job files can be submitted to the printing device in native format if such format is supported by the printer or converted by the document conversion part as required. Examples of print ready form include PCL PJL PS PRN XPS PDF TIFF JPEG TXT ASCII etc. Such print ready form allows the user to view the file on any platform that has capability to handle this format and will appear the same in each instance . Further a print ready file can be archived and one can expect that the archived file unlike application files can be printed years or decades later.

The print application a and the document conversion part can operate without the personal computer having the specific application thereon. Even if the personal computer has the specific application the print job is submitted by the job submission part to a specified printer without using a printer driver and preferably without opening the specific application.

In addition the personal computer as configured with the print application preferably can discover the printers on the network through the discovery part and a description of printers is provided by the user interface . The printer description can include basic capabilities location information etc. The user can select a desired printer using the description of printers provided by the user interface . The discovery part can also discover the capabilities for example duplex simplex staple number of copies paper source paper size and type portrait color two up hole punch scaling etc. of each printer by communication with the printer and the results of the discovery are presented through the user interface to the user. Printers can be discovered using any of various known discovery methods including but not limited to SNMP such as versions v v v broadcast ping sweep DNS Ports NetBIOS WMI Bonjour Zeroconf etc Printer capabilities can be discovered using known protocols including but not limited to SNMP IPP PJL etc. . In addition discovery may also include consulting a MIB Management Information Base database and or an asset management system. The discovery may be a general discovery broadcast or may be guided by a specified search range hostname network address previous search settings etc.

For example the user interface can present for each printer a list of the detailed capabilities of the printer to a user for selection. The detailed capabilities of a selected printer are described through the user interface to the user and enables the user to select job ticket options to be applied to the job. The job ticket formation part generates a job ticket based on the selected options and the job ticket can be associated with the print job. The job ticket formation part can generate job tickets complying with the JTAPI Job Ticket Application Programming Interface standard and or as PJL printer job language as supported by the printer.

The job ticket specifies the output options and can include additional information such as user name password or other authentication information timestamp communication protocol other communication related information such as encryption finishing options special instructions such as do not print until entire job received do not print until user enters code at printing device what to do with output etc. .

The user interface allows the user to select the job together with the job ticket and then the job submission part submits the selected job file and job ticket to the specified printer using one of the supported transport methods. These include but are not limited to TCP IP socket LPR FTP secure FTP HTTP HTTP secure IPP IPP secure SSH file transfer WebDAV etc. The print application can maintain a list of previously used printers previously used job tickets previously used communication methods to allow for a faster and more automated workflow in the future.

A method for assembling a print job and submitted it to a specified printer will now be described with reference to . A device discovery request is output to the network by the print application on the personal computer step S and the print application assembles information identifying the responding printing devices. Next the print application sends a query to each responding device to inquire the capabilities of the device step S and stores information from the response of the device. In addition the print application queries the device regarding the transport protocols supported by the device step S and stores communication transport information received from the device. The print application provides descriptions of the available printers to the user through the user interface to enable the user to select a printer and select desired print output options for the print job and then generates a job ticket based on the selected print output options step S . The assembled print job including the job ticket is transmitted to the selected printer step S . The process may also include converting the electronic document to be printed into a print ready file that can be handled by any printer although at least in some instances the electronic document will already be in a print ready form even without conversion.

The service component can announce itself on the network and describe the MFP and its capabilities to the user. The print application provided by the service component of the MFP as a service to the information terminals can be similar to the print application residing natively on the personal computer in including any combination of parts of the print application

The print application provided by the service component enables the user to create a job ticket convert the electronic document into print ready form if not already a print ready file and submit the job file with job ticket utilizing the appropriate submission method. Submission methods include but are not limited to HTTP HTTP secure FTP FTP secure etc. In order to improve future workflow for the user as well as collect usage information the system can collect and store information associated with jobs assembled by the user including the job ticket.

While shows the print application service being available from the MFP each or any printing device connected to the network can be configured to host a service component similar to service component to provide print application service to the information terminals .

A third exemplary embodiment in which the print application is provided to a computing device by a server hosting the print application service is described below.

The server can discover the available printing devices on the network discover the capabilities of the printing devices and describe the capabilities to the users. Hosting the print application as a service on a server enables any information terminal or computing device that can communicate with the server to submit print job files to any printing device with which the server can communicate. For example the server may be a combination of a print server and a web server and enables users to obtain printing service through the Internet. Accordingly the information terminal or computing device can submit print job files to a printing device with which the information terminal or computing device cannot communicate directly.

The print application provided by the server to the information terminal or computing device as a service enables the user to create a job ticket and submit a print ready file such as shown in and the server collects information tracking and identifying previously used printing devices and job tickets to automate future work flows. Submission methods include but are not limited to HTTP HTTPS FTP FTP secure SSH file transfer etc. The server in turn can submit the print job and job ticket to the printer by any of the transport methods supported by the printer including but not limited to TCP IP Socket LPR IPP IPP secure HTTP HTTP secure FTP FTP secure SSH file transfer etc.

As implied above the subject matter of this disclosure in some examples is embodied essentially in software. In such a scenario the subject matter is embodied in a print application which is installed on a computing device. The print application can be configured to discover printing devices discover device capabilities present output options based on the device capabilities to the user allow the user to select desired options and forming a job ticket based on the selected options. The print application can also be configured to remember previously used printing devices and job tickets and present such printing devices and job tickets for user selection.

In additional examples the subject matter of this disclosure can embody hardware for example a printer and software for example a web service hosted on the printer. In such instances a computing device can access the web service on the printer select job ticket settings and submit job files including the job ticket via the web service to the printer. The web service can remember the user user preferences and previously used job tickets. An authentication and encryption processes as well as other processes are preferably provided to protect the user data.

The subject matter of this disclosure in additional examples can include a server and a web service hosted on the server. For example the server and web service may be part of a printing system including one or more printer or printing devices alternatively the printing devices may simply be printers available through the network that is not managed by the server . In any event the user in such examples can use the computing device to access the web service hosted on the server select output device and job ticket settings and submit the job files directly from the computing device or via another server for example file server or content management system . Such other server or content management system can be part of the printing system or simply be available through the network. It should be appreciated from the examples above that the printing system the files and the user do not all have to be within a closed system or on the same network.

As discussed above the proliferation of information technology has not eliminated the need to print but rather has promoted more and more opportunities and demand for printing. It is becoming increasingly apparent that there is a substantial need for pay per print service to users in environments where the user does not own the output device such as hotels conference centers airports and other transportation depots other venues where people have time and occasion to retrieve electronic content print shops etc. .

For example a print shop may have a web portal where a user can obtain an account that enables the user to submit print jobs to be printed and sent to the user or one or more third parties for pay. In the case that the user wishes to send part or all of the output to a third party the service provided by the web portal may also include an optional billing service that is bill of the user to the third party.

In another example a graphic artist might maintain a web portal through which a user can select posters signs other graphical works provided by the artist etc. select number of copies and submit payment and then the file to be printed is released to the user for example for downloading transmitted through e mail etc. . The system can remember user information and user preferences for example job ticket for re prints at a later time.

The subject matter of this disclosure can be configured in some examples to facilitate printing from a PDA or other handheld device or information appliance and optionally provide billing capabilities such as described above . For example a PDA or smart mobile phone with a BlueTooth interface can instruct the MFP or printer to retrieve or download a file from a document depository on the network or from a web site. In this case the information appliance does not need to be connected to the Internet or intranet as long as a user has a link via the BlueTooth interface to specify a document to be printed for example within the intranet or on the Internet. The information appliance via the BlueTooth interface or while connected to the same network to which the MFP or printer is connected can send the print job directly to the printing device without the need for a printer driver and without the need for the application that created the document to be printed while still maintaining the ability to control the output.

As mentioned above in conventional printing environments a user of a computing device typically needs to open the application used to create or edit the document in order to select a printer through the interface provided by the operating system of the computing device select settings via a print driver provided through the operating system and then specify print of the document with the job settings which are combined with the job file to form a print file. Thus in a conventional printing system there are many requirements for the computing device. Conventional printing systems simply do not enable a user to create a print file without a print driver appropriate for the selected printer or on a computing device that does not have access to the application that originally created the document that the user desires to print.

Separating job ticket information from the print file and from the delivery mechanism makes the system much more flexible. For example a file can be re submitted with different settings to the same device or with the same settings to a different device. The print file can be edited using the same application that created it in contrast print files in conventional printing systems have print codes added therein and renders the file difficult for the user to edit . One advantage includes that job ticket creation and file creation can be performed by different users one job ticket can be applied to many jobs etc.

Thus this disclosure describes exemplary embodiment of methods apparatuses and systems for printing from any platform to any printer without the need for a driver. In a preferred embodiment the user is provided with means to create a job ticket and submit a job to any printer. The system is further preferably configured to discover an unknown available printer discover the capabilities of the printer discover the supported transport mechanism s describe the device to the user submit the job and remember the device address device capabilities and job ticket information. The system can overcome the need for drivers the need for printer ports and the need for the application with which the files were created.

The above specific embodiments are illustrative and many variations can be introduced on these embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure or from the scope of the appended claims. For example elements and or features of different examples and illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

