---

title: Thermally induced single-use valves and method of use
abstract: In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a thermally induced single-use valve is provided including a silicon wafer having a top surface and a bottom surface and at least one cavity formed in the bottom surface of the wafer, a thermally deformable membrane suspended across the cavity on the top surface of the wafer and at least one resistive element patterned on top of the thermally deformable membrane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07958906&OS=07958906&RS=07958906
owner: University of South Florida
number: 07958906
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070411
---
This application claims priority to currently pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 744 664 entitled Thermally Induced Single Use Valve Chips filed Apr. 11 2006 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DASG60 00 C 0089 awarded by the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Micro fluidics has been included in various analytical schemes that incorporate the well known advantages of micro scale transduction. A basic fluidic operation important in TAS and Lab on a chip applications is the controlled delivery of minute fluid amounts. The purposes behind hermetic fluid storage and its on demand delivery even as a single use operation are many fold. For instance a common micro fluidic application involves the delivery of analytical reagents to a sample to induce transductions that provide information on sample state like presence or concentration of target chemicals. Intake of samples in portable sensor systems that monitor water bodies is another application that would benefit from automated fluidic delivery. Additionally automated fluid delivery has been exploited as a way to produce energy on demand by feeding electrolytes into electrochemical cells.

Fluidic delivery mechanisms are known in the art. Pneumatically or inertiallly driven fluidic devices are preferred over electrokinetic mechanisms due to their capacity to provide a wider range of flow rates. CD styled platforms based on centrifugal forced actuation are a classical example of micro fluidic schemes. Volume expanding materials are another alternative that induce pneumatic differentials to obtain micro flow. Applications that involve remote unattended transducers for either analytical purposes or power production have specific requirements that challenge the direct incorporation of some of the available micro fluidic schemes. These include besides reliability low power requirements and in general short time constants. A low power device requires that the fluid delivery is done efficiently thus providing longer operational lives for the power sources and or more operating device cycles. Fast actuation ensures precise control of the desired transduction. In the case of sensors reduction of temporal lags guarantees real time data. An attractive fluidic delivery actuation currently known in the art involves a pressurized liquid reservoir that is contained by a valve the controllable actuated component that when opened delivers a fluid to the desired micro channel. Micro valves generally activated with low powers can be utilized for such a scheme.

The design and fabrication of such micro valves is currently known in the art. Polymeric and plastic valves and vents are innovations in micro valving mechanisms that use non silicon based processing. Conventional silicon MEMS fabrication takes advantages of the technology derived from the integrated circuit industry such as high yield processing and the capability of wafer level device fabrication making low cost production possible.

Accordingly what is needed in the art is a thermally induced single use micro valve having low power requirements short time constants and low cost production capabilities.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a thermally induced single use valve is provided including a silicon wafer having a top surface and a bottom surface and at least one cavity formed in the bottom surface of the wafer a thermally deformable membrane suspended across the cavity on the top surface of the wafer and at least one resistive element patterned on top of the thermally deformable membrane.

In a particular embodiment the thermally induced single use valve further includes voltage supply configured to establish a voltage across the resistive element. The voltage supply may be a pulsed DC voltage supply.

In a specific embodiment the thermally deformable membrane is fabricated of silicon nitride however other membrane materials are within the scope of the invention. The resistive element is patterned on the surface of the membrane and is preferably formed of gold or platinum. The geometric pattern of the resistive element may vary and may include a zig zag shape or a two legs in parallel shape.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an apparatus for supplying a fluid or gas under pressure to a channel is provided. The apparatus includes at least one thermally induced single use value further comprising a silicon wafer having a top surface and a bottom surface and at least one cavity formed in the bottom surface of the wafer a thermally deformable membrane suspended across the cavity on the top surface of the wafer and at least one resistive element patterned on top of the thermally deformable membrane a voltage supply configured to establish a voltage across the resistive element at least one pressurized reservoir for holding the fluid or gas and at least one supply line positioned between the at least one pressurized reservoir and the at least one thermally induced single use valve. In this embodiment when the voltage is supplied across the resistive element the resistive elements heats up and deforms the thermally deformable membrane until it ruptures allowing the fluid or gas to flow to the channel.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for supplying a fluid or gas under pressure to a channel is provided. The method includes positioning a thermally induced single use valve between the fluid or gas and the channel the thermally induced single use valve further comprising a silicon wafer having a top surface and a bottom surface and at least one cavity formed in the bottom surface of the wafer a thermally deformable membrane suspended across the cavity on the top surface of the wafer and at least one resistive element patterned on top of the thermally deformable membrane and heating the resistive element thereby causing the thermally deformable membrane to rupture opening the valve and releasing the fluid or gas to the channel. The resistive element may be heated using a pulsed DC supply placed across the resistive element.

The present invention describes the modeling and fabrication of MEMS valves for liquid delivery on demand to a device. The valve design consists of a metal resistor on a silicon nitride substrate. Essentially a metallic heater is deposited onto a silicon nitride layer then on backside of the wafer a 3 mm by 3 mm square is etched via deep reactive ion etching after a patterned aluminum masking layer centers the heater. As the resistor heats up the silicon nitride also heats up and deforms. Stresses build up in the materials and as the ultimate stress of the silicon nitride is exceeded the valve breaks and liquid is delivered to the device. These thermal stresses are caused by the mechanical constraints of the design the difference between the thermal coefficients of expansion of the two materials and any temperature gradients in the material. The temperature and stress distributions are realized through the modeling and they can be used to look at and compare different valve designs. An important consideration in the design of the resistor is the power required to heat it to a temperature that will break the valve. If this valve is part of a liquid delivery system to a battery then the power needed to break the valve should be a small fraction of the power produced by the battery.

Referring to a single use valve in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is illustrated having a metallic ohmic resistor patterned on a silicon nitride membrane . The view shown in is top down view of the valve illustrating the resistive element on top of the membrane . The view shown in is a cross sectional view of the valve illustrating the resistive element on top of the membrane and the cavity formed in the silicon wafer . In this embodiment upon the application of a sufficient voltage to the resistor the resistor heats up and causes a thermal rupture of the silicon nitride membrane causing the valve to open. In this particular embodiment the membrane is formed of silicon nitride however other appropriate membrane materials are within the scope of the invention.

Now with reference to a conceptualization of the utilization of an array of the single use valves in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. In this case the single use valves would be in the position as illustrated. In addition the system includes pressurized reservoirs containing the fluid or gas to be delivered and air filled thin hoses connecting the reservoirs to an array of valves . Upon activation of the single use valves of the array of valves the resistive element is heated to cause the membrane to rupture and the fluid or gas contained in the pressurized reservoirs to be delivered to the channels or reservoirs to be filled as shown.

If single use valves as shown in are to be used in a stored pneumatic energy fluidic mechanism two important issues must be considered. On one hand a mechanically strong membrane to contain the pressurized fluid is desirable. The stronger the membrane the higher the pressure differential it can withstand and the faster the liquid filling of the desired channel reservoir. On the other hand the membrane has to be reliably broken with small amounts of energy and the breakage time lag must be small. Phenomenological mechanical models solved generally using numerical techniques are well documented in literature. A simple descriptive model is used herein to quantify the maximum pressure differential that the membranes can withstand. The descriptive model is valid for a membrane with large planar dimensions in comparison with its thickness which is the case herein and can be used to relate the required breakage pressure and the membrane dimensions. A force balance can be written when the pressures facing each face of the membrane changes as an equation of the form 4 1 

F is the perpendicular force A is the area of the membrane considered constant and equal to D P the pressure t the membrane thickness and D the length of the membrane square side. The left hand side term D dP represents a uniform pneumatic force loading due to the average pressure differential the term 4t D includes the maximum shear stress and is the critical shearing force load at the membrane edges. The b in the last term D a b D is an offset positive or negative force due to the membrane deviation from flatness and residual stresses resulting from the membrane fabrication and b D encompass potential instrumental errors arising from the utilized measurement set up.

To decide on the resistor designs the basic coupled phenomenological equations that relate energetic and thermal effects are considered. First the power dot over Q is given by the potential V and the resistance R of the ohmic resistor 2 

Second the quantification of the resistor s temperature increment is estimated according to an energy balance that can be generically written as Change in thermal energy Heat losses via conduction convection and radiation 3 

Additionally the temperature change in the resistor T T induces a different resistance value R that depends on the physicochemical characteristics of the metal is the metal resistivity and is the thermal resistivity and on the dimensions the length L and the cross sectional area A 1 4 

The thermal gradient first term of the right hand side of equation 4 and the magnitude of the heat losses dictate the temperature reached by the membrane resistor system as well as the rate of temperature increase. One way to reduce the thermal losses is to reduce the proximity of the resistor to the silicon nitride membrane edges.

The fabrication methodology for the thermally induced single use valves in accordance with the present invention is illustrated with reference to and . As shown in after an initial cleaning the membrane fabrication process flow is illustrated and starts by forming a silicon nitride coating on the top and bottom surface of the silicon wafer . In a particular embodiment the silicon nitride layers are formed by placing the wafers in a low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD oven for 3.3 6.6 and 10 hours resulting in silicon nitride coatings with thicknesses of 1 2 and 3 m respectively.

After the silicon nitride has been deposited one side of the wafer is patterned with the metal resistors via lift off technique. Possible configurations of the metal resistors were previously illustrated with reference to . In a particular embodiment titanium is sputtered to form an adhesive layer for the subsequent platinum and gold deposition to the silicon wafer. Patterning of the resistive element is then followed by sputtering of the metal layer . Possible metal layers include platinum and gold. Next a photo resist lift off technique is used to complete the resistive element and then the cavity is formed in the bottom surface of the wafer resulting in a thin silicon nitride membrane having a patterned resistive element suspended over the cavity in the silicon wafer. In a specific embodiment a positive photo resist is deposited at 3000 rpm for 40 seconds and then is exposed for 2.9 seconds and immersion developed for 35 40 seconds. A titanium layer approximately 10 nm is sputtered on the wafers to serve as an adhesion layer for the subsequent platinum and gold deposition to the silicon wafers. Table 2 summarizes the details of the sputtering and deposition times for the various metals and associated layer thicknesses Immersion in acetone for 20 minutes completes the lift off patterning.

Silicon etching on the backside of the wafer to form the cavity following the resistor patterning is illustrated in more detail with reference to . Two possible routes for the formation of the cavity are illustrated with reference to . In route A the backside silicon nitride layer etching was the first step which in turn is used as a mask to perform batch chemical etching through the silicon wafer. In a particular embodiment a negative photo resist was then used with an appropriate field mask to pattern squares in the silicon nitride on the back face of the wafer . The negative photo resist was deposited spun at 1000 rpm for 40 seconds and hot plate baked at 150 C. for 80 seconds. A developer was then used after a predevelopment bake on the hot plate for 80 seconds at a temperature of 100 C. The exposure time was 20 seconds and the immersion development time was 15 seconds. The achieved photo resist thickness with this procedure is approximately 2.55 microns as measured with a contact surface profiler. The silicon nitride on the back of the wafer is then completely removed from the desired square areas by treating the wafers in a reactive ion etching RIE tool for a total of 115 minutes. After the photo resist is removed 110 silicon chemical etching of the wafer is used to form the cavity . In a specific embodiment a silicon nitride etch recipe with a volumetric ratio of CHFto Oof 45 5 was used. At the end of that time the photo resist layer was drastically thinned and the silicon nitride received localized attacks by the reactive etching. An immersion in 45 KOH solution at 90 C. to completely etch the silicon wafer follows. The 500 um through holes are achieved after a 5 hour immersion while agitating at 250 rpm in the KOH solution. The reported rate is about 100 m per hour at 90 C. for oriented wafers.

In an alternate route for creating the through holes on the wafer the first step for the membrane fabrication is removing the silicon nitride from the backsides of the wafer . In a specific embodiment this is done by exposing the wafers to reactive etching for 25 minutes per micron of silicon nitride deposited. An aluminum mask is then patterned using either liftoff or etching techniques with no apparent difference on the yield and characteristics of final valve wafers. In a particular case utilizing the liftoff technique an aluminum mask is patterned to define the through holes on the backside of the wafer . Then a titanium layer is sputtered over as an adhesive layer . Next aluminum is sputtered over the titanium layer for fifteen minutes with a series sputtering system resulting in a thickness of approximately 0.270 m. Aluminum liftoff is then performed . The liftoff to pattern the aluminum required immersion in acetone for 1 hour and 15 minutes. For the wafers in which aluminum is patterned via etching this metal is deposited first as described before and etched selectively. Acidic etching removes the aluminum. photoresist that was used to mask the aluminum. A three solvent rinse is then performed and together with 1 minute oxygen plasma RIE removes any residues. Then the wafers are taken to the DRIE tool where the silicon is completely removed in 3 3 mmsquares under the patterned resistors after the wafers are subjected to 700 Bosch processing cycles.

The mechanical properties of the membrane can be used to predict the strength of the fabricated membranes. However it is well known that a deposited membrane possesses intrinsic stresses related to the deposition technique and its conditions. through show shows pictures generated with an optical profiler that illustrate the bending of selected membrane due to residual stresses induced while fabricating the square membranes. These and other membranes with different lateral sizes D will be utilized to test the maximum pressures that they can withstand. The graphs clearly show that the LPCVD deposition indeed induced intrinsic stresses to the fabricated membranes. The membranes though were strong enough for handling with the rest of the wafer which indicates a residual stress with a value less than 0.1 GPa.

In a specific embodiment in order to obtain an estimate of the maximum pressure under which the fluid can be stored various sized square membranes side lengths equal to 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 and 4 mm of various thicknesses 1 2 and 3 m thick were fabricated as described above. For testing purposes commercially available nanoports were used. A schematic of the set up used to measure the maximum pressure and obtain the calibration curve for the sensor is shown in and a graphical illustration of the measured voltage and pressure is shown in . The pressure was induced via a compressor pump. The compressor was turned on while the exhaust valve was open this valve was closed slowly and data was taken every second until the membranes failed.

The graphical illustration of summarizes the experimental data points where breakage of the various silicon nitride membranes occurred while applying pressure. In the graphical illustration of the dramatic increase in pneumatic strength of the membrane as the dimensions of the membrane are reduced is clearly illustrated. The continuous line curves represent a model that has been fitted to the presented experimental data. Since only the largest membranes D 4 with thicknesses equal to 3 microns broke the model has been calculated to compare only with membranes of membrane thicknesses of 1 and 2 microns. This model is a simplification of equation 1. It assumes a uniform pressure applied and equates the pressure increment P to the maximum shear stress and the membrane dimensions 4 5 

The term k is an offset parameter that includes phenomenological aspects previously explained. As it is shown in the modeled curves are in fair agreement with that of the experimental values obtained. shows that the largest size membranes with sides equals to 4.0 mm break at low pressures between 0.25 and 0.60 bars. As for membranes with 3.0 mm sides several of the five tested membranes with 1 and 2 microns thickness broke with a pressure in between 0.30 and 0.65 bars while only one out of five tested of the 3 m membranes broke when a pressure of 1.4 bars was applied while the other ones tested remained unbroken up to a pressure of 5 bars. Because of the large pressure range of pressure for membranes with 3 3 mmsides and a thickness of 3 m this size is considered a preferred membrane to use in building the thermally activated valves of the present invention.

Thermal efficiencies of micro fabricated resistors are commonly reported as the required energy or the required application time of a certain power to achieve a certain temperature increment. In accordance with the present invention constant voltages were applied using a DC power supply while the resistors were placed on a probe station. Since the resistor temperature changes during heating its resistance and power as stated in equation 2 also varies as heating takes place. In order to be able to estimate the energy required for the resistor to reach a certain temperature an estimate of the resistance that representatively estimates the change that takes place is necessary. This estimate R calculated as an average R is shown below. 2 6 

The first resistance R represents resistance values at ambient temperature 18.9 C. 0.2 C. and are presented in Table 3 together with the calculated ones using equation 4 for each exemplary resistor design presented.

The resistance value at the higher temperature R is obtained empirically. To do so various voltages were used to heat the resistors at various temperatures at least five potentials resulting in temperature ranges between 18 700 C. for each resistor. Multimeters were used for recording the voltage and the electrical current flowing through the circuit as shown in . Current and voltage are used to calculate the input power as well as the steady state resistance value Ohm s law of the heated resistor R. The Rvalue is then used with equation 7 an expression derived from equation 4 to estimate a steady state temperature T of the resistors.

Since it is a fact that a linear relationship exists between the power and temperature for micro fabricated resistors equation 2 suggests a temperature versus potential expression of the form 18.5 8 

Calculated temperatures as a function of voltage data were input in a regression subroutine and the constants c and d in equation 8 were obtained. In order to illustrate examples of the energy required for heating that has been generated for the resistor designs some of the data obtained with the L labeled gold resistors has been summarized in . shows the steady state stabilized temperature that is reached as function of power data points indicated as open symbols and voltage indicated with filled markers . The curves represented by continuous lines are least square minimized curves that seem to adequately describe the experimental data. As stated in the text temperature increments are linearly related to the applied powers. The average correlation coefficient r a value which closeness to 1 indicates the goodness of the fitted line with the experimental data has a value of 0.9820. The regressed curves that represent an average temperature as a function of the applied voltage are a second degree polynomial eq. 8 . In that case the calculated average correlation coefficient is 0.9965. It should be pointed out that the figure evidences that smaller temperature increments when compared to the other two valves are achieved with the valve labeled as in . The most likely reason for this fact is the position of this valve in the wafer. The valve is located in the edge of the wafer position that exposes more area to the environment at a T Tamb inducing more convective heat losses eq. 3 and that results in less heating efficiency as shown in the figure. Regression coefficients between 0.9682 and 0.9997 confirm the validity of the mathematical form of equation 8 for all the other resistors. Equation 8 allows then for the calculation of the expected Rvalue. The calculated Rwas compared with a time weighted resistor average value R estimated by numerical integration using the trapezoidal rule of actual resistance variations that were measured using a constant resistor and an oscilloscope. Experimentally it was observed for the steady state temperatures for all the designs presented here that 

Since it was found that Ris essentially equal to R the contention of using R Ras a constant in equation 2 to estimate the required power to reach and maintain a steady state temperature T can be used for the results presented in this section.

In order to estimate the required potential for opening each of the valve designs and based on previous observations that similar silicon nitride diaphragms can withstand up to 650 C. voltages that would increase to temperature of around 700 C. were used here. As a first step to test the opening of the valves an estimation of the required time pulse for achieving the steady state temperature was obtained. The calculated voltage was then applied to the tested device first during either 30 50 or 100 milliseconds. If the valve did not break the pulse was then incremented to 50 milliseconds and after that in steps of 50 milliseconds until the valve either opened breaking the silicon nitride membrane or failed resistor broke without breakage of the membrane .

In a particular embodiment electrical pulses were produced via a HexFET N channel power MOSFET triggered via a function generator. Table 4 shows the applied potential the duration of the applied pulse and the estimated energy for opening the valve. The power estimation as described above assumes that steady state temperatures were reached right before the resistor broke. The energy requirements were obtained by multiplying the calculated power by the pulsing time t.

In an additional embodiment to further decrease the required energy for valve activation the potential applied to the devices is increased which therefore decreases the heating time of the valve to the breaking temperature. Higher potentials than those shown in Table 4 applied for shorter pulse times 10 to 30 milliseconds can then be used. In this case it is expected that the breaking temperature would not be the ultimate steady state temperature that the resistor could achieve. Because of this the required energy was calculated by recording the electrical current as function of time I t flowing through the resistor. This was done using a constant resistor of similar magnitude that the design that is being measured and a digital oscilloscope. This measurement also provided the pulsing time required for membrane breakage tp . The energy was then integrated numerically using trapezoidal rule. Energy 10 

Potential drop measured through an external resistor during applied square pulses is shown in . The potential shown next to each curve is the applied voltage to the resistor. When the two higher voltages are applied 13 and 17 Volts the membrane breaks opening the valve. The calculated energy required to open the resistors actuated with 13 V is one order of magnitude higher about 4 times more than that utilized with 17 Volts. For that case if integration of the power is performed as function of time the energy required was around 44 mJ. If an average power is calculated and multiplied by the time required for breakage 22 mseconds the estimated energy required to open the valve was 43 Joules. The fact that these values differ by less than 1 percent show that integration can be avoided to obtain the valve energetic requirements as previously stated. Energetic requirements were calculated for all the successful replicate cases in all designs at least 3 out of 4 or 4 out of 5 of the resistors broke together with the membrane and are presented in . The calculated energy for each device is shown as a function of their resistance. shows the energy required to break a platinum zig zag resistor with an average thickness of 0.09 m 0.025 m. shows the energy required to break a platinum zig zag resistor with an average thickness of 0.30 m 0.030 m. shows the energy required to break a gold zig zag resistor with an average thickness of 0.15 m 0.020 m. shows the energy required to break a two legs parallel platinum resistor with an average thickness of 0.09 m 0.025 m. shows the energy required to break a two legs parallel gold resistor with an average thickness of 0.15 m 0.020 m. The applied potential as well as the time during which the voltage was applied is shown in parenthesis. The figures clearly show the effect of the resistor design. The average potential and pulse time with both a plus minus voltage and duration of the successfully tested devices has been included close to the corresponding data cluster for each design.

In accordance with the present invention is provided the basis for a micro fabrication process to produce reliable single use valve arrays fabricated with metals and silicon nitride based on rapid thermal induction of stresses. The presented thermal testing and characterization of the resistors on the valves serves as a guideline to design resistors with specific activation power requirements. The valves are activated with low power in some cases with energetic requirements in the order of tens of millijoules and different activation voltage current pairs potentially facilitating the implementation in a device. Results for the maximum pressure that various size valves can withstand have been presented. Fabricated and tested valves with dimensions of 3 3 mmand 3 m thickness can withstand a pressure gradient of at least 5 bars. The low power requirements of single use activated membranes is a requirement for the implementation of a valving mechanism and is attractive for the development of remote and even portable systems. Additionally the fabrication steps ensure high production levels at least 75 of the produced devices were successfully tested and low cost making this fabrication method suitable for the production of expendable devices.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

