---

title: Application services gateway
abstract: Application services gateways that execute electronic application programs/services allows the application programs/services to be managed and administered out of a network rather than locally. The application services gateways are elements in a services delivery system that execute application programs/services that control or otherwise interact with systems and devices of a home or business such as a heating and cooling system or a security system. The application services gateways have a LAN connection to a communication gateway that in turn communicates over a WAN to a remote services gateway. The remote services gateway channels data from a remote service platform to provide application programs/services and management services over the WAN to the communications gateway where it is then channeled to the application services gateways. The installation and management of the application programs/services residing and/or being executed at the local site on the application services gateways relieves the consumer of such responsibilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060557&OS=08060557&RS=08060557
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 08060557
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070419
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 317 419 filed on Dec. 11 2002 entitled Application Services Gateway now U.S. Pat. No. 7 209 945 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 410 017 filed on Sep. 11 2002 entitled Application Services Gateway which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is related to providing electronic application programs services to local sites and managing those applications. More particularly the present invention relates to an element in a services delivery system that allows one or more application programs services to be remotely provided to it for execution and to be remotely managed once provided.

Electronic application programs are used within a home or business for many reasons to assist people in their lives by establishing particular services. As such the applications programs and the services they provide may be referred to collectively as application programs services. For example a personal computer may contain many application programs establishing services that allow an individual to interface with the computer to perform various tasks such as word processing electronic mail and scheduling. As more devices within a home or business are becoming electronic the variety of application programs services that work in conjunction with these devices is greatly expanding. Application programs services now extend beyond those typically found on a personal computer that are focused on interaction with the user. For example application programs services now exist to provide customized control of security systems heating and cooling systems household appliances and various other systems and devices.

Typically for personal computers consumers are responsible for the management of the application programs services such as installing configuring and executing the desired application programs services. However as the number and complexity of application programs services affecting one s life increases in conjunction with the number of systems and devices that utilize application programs services consumers are less capable of the management responsibilities. Tasks such as acquiring installing configuring monitoring and or updating application programs services are undesirable or even impossible for the consumer since they may be complicated and time consuming. Therefore consumers generally prefer to avoid these tasks and prefer that someone else be responsible for the management of application programs services.

To manage application programs services without the consumer being responsible typically requires that a technician perform the necessary tasks. The application programs services for an individual may often be local such that the application program service itself resides in electronic or magnetic memory and is executed at the location where the effects of the application program service are to occur. For example the application programs services controlling or otherwise interacting with a heating and cooling system or a security system are typically located and executed at the residence where the heating and cooling system or security system is located. This avoids potential communication problems between the application program service and the systems that might jeopardize their operation. However a technician must visit the residence where the application program service is to reside to manage the application program service including the initial installation of the program service and subsequent updates of the program service. This is an inconvenience to both the technician and the consumer and may result in unsatisfactory management of the application programs services.

Additionally specialized and dedicated hardware is often required at the local site to run each of the application programs services. Because the amount of resources provided by the hardware affects its cost it may be desirable to keep the hardware costs low by utilizing hardware with limited resources to execute one or more of the application programs services. Due to limited resources the hardware may not be capable of simultaneously accommodating every possible application program service and version that may be needed by a consumer. Thus application programs services may need to be repetitiously installed and removed or replaced with a newer version so that the hardware has access to an application program service needed at any given time. This further aggravates the installation and management issues for application programs services at the local site.

Embodiments of the present invention address these issues and others by providing an application services gateway that executes application programs to provide services for the consumer. The application services gateway may receive application programs through a network connection from a network source. Additionally the application services gateway may execute the application programs according to the instructions received through the network from the network source.

One embodiment is a method of providing application services to a consumer. The method involves providing an application services gateway connected to a communications gateway for the consumer and the application services gateway provides execution of the application services. The application services of the application services gateway are administered from a network location in communication with the application services gateway through the communications gateway.

Another embodiment is an application services gateway that includes a services interface to an external system a local area network interface and a processing device. The processing device is configured to receive administration commands through the network interface and to execute application programs to bring about application services in accordance with the administration commands. The application services result in interaction with the external system through the services interface.

Another embodiment is an application services gateway system. The system includes storage containing an application program a local area network interface and a processing device. The processing device executes a real time operating system executes a virtual machine atop the operating system executes a services framework atop the virtual framework and executes the application program from storage atop the services framework. The execution of the services framework provides for reception of administration instructions through the local area network interface to control execution of the application program.

Another embodiment is a system for providing application services to a consumer. A network services gateway is connected to a network and has access to a store of application programs. A communications gateway is connected to the network remotely from the network services gateway. An application services gateway is connected to the communications gateway and receives application programs and instructions for controlling execution of the application programs from the network services gateway through the communications gateway.

Embodiments of the present invention provide application services gateways that execute application programs services and that allow the application programs services to be remotely installed and managed. The application services gateways are elements in a services delivery system where the services may be subscribed to in various ways. For example a user can go to a website or contact a service representative to subscribe to a new service. In this example when a user successfully subscribes to a new service a dynamic link to the new service is automatically established on the user s family home page maintained on a network. If the new service requires that an application program service be downloaded to an applications services gateway in the user s home from the network the appropriate application program service will be downloaded from the application program service repository server in the network to the applications services gateway. After the application program service has been successfully downloaded to the application services gateway the user will gain access to the service via the dynamic link on the user s family home page. In general the user interface to the individual services will be through a web browser interface. The application services gateway has connectivity to devices and systems that the application programs services control or otherwise interact with and the application services gateway also has connectivity to a local area network LAN to wide area network WAN gateway such as a DSL or cable modem. Through the LAN to WAN gateway remote installation and management of application programs services for the application services gateway may occur.

As shown in an environment for the application services gateway includes a home or business residence . The residence includes a communication gateway that provides LAN to WAN gateway services. The communication gateway is connected to a WAN of the outside world through data link . For example the communication gateway may include an integrated DSL modem connected to a plain old telephone system POTS circuit providing DSL services and utilizing the TCP IP protocol to transfer data. The communication gateway provides bi directional communication of data between the LAN of the residence and the WAN .

The LAN of the residence for the embodiment shown includes a LAN switch such as an Ethernet router that may be separate from or integral with the communications gateway . The switch distributes LAN traffic between the various devices of the LAN and the WAN . For example the WAN may include the Internet so that WAN traffic may be relevant to several devices of the LAN where one device has applications that are being remotely managed through the WAN while another device is accessing other web sites.

Many devices may be linked to the communication gateway through the LAN switch . The LAN switch may be connected to a personal computer to allow the computer to access the WAN . One or more application services gateways may be linked to the communication gateway to receive the application program service installations and management instructions sent from the WAN . It will be appreciated that the application services gateway may be linked directly to the communications gateway without requiring a LAN switch where no other devices of the residence require access to the WAN .

The application services gateways act as execution environments to execute one or more of the application programs services simultaneously for the residence . It will be appreciated that there could be more than one application services gateway installed on the home network in the residence. For example one application services gateway may be configured to provide one set of services with related functionality such as multi media entertainment while another application services gateway is configured to provide a different set of services with different functionality such as home management and control. Thus the cost of the application services gateway may be controlled by providing the application services gateway with only the functionality needed by a particular service or set of services or alternatively if cost is not an issue then an application services gateway may be provided with many types of functionality needed by many services.

As an example of the varying degrees of functionality a single application services gateway may be communicatively linked to one system or device of the residence to control or otherwise interact with the system or device as dictated by the application programs services. For example an application program service may be executed by an application services gateway having an interface e.g. power line modem to an HVAC system to control the heating and cooling system. Another application program service may be executed by another application services gateway in the residence having an interface e.g. 802.11b wireless to security cameras to transfer security camera images over the WAN . Thus if a consumer only needs some services the application services gateway capable of providing those specific services may be purchased at a lesser cost than an application services gateway capable of providing many services. However if cost does not need to be controlled as closely then an application service gateway with capabilities for many services may be provided such as having interfaces to both the HVAC system and the security cameras.

The application services gateway is a managed network element as shown in . As such the operation of the application services gateway is controlled from the network rather than locally at the application services gateway . The application programs services implemented by the application services gateway are managed and administered out of the network by the service provider from a services platform discussed below. As such the application services gateway operates as a plug and play box for the consumer requiring relatively simple connections such as to a power outlet and Ethernet connection to become operational. The application services gateway may be of various forms such as a stand alone unit or a digital set top box.

The application services gateway may be delivered to the consumer containing a bundle of application programs services for the consumer that the application services gateway is capable of providing as discussed above. However during operation the application services gateway may receive updates replacements and new application programs services from the network . Thus the lifecycle of each application program service residing on and or being performed by the application services gateway is managed out of the network .

The application services gateway may implement a customized or commercially available services framework to allow execution remote installation and lifecycle management of application programs services. For example the Open Systems Gateway Initiative OSGi framework or JINI framework of Sun Microsystems may be utilized by the application services gateway to receive and install the remotely provided application programs services from the application program service repository server in the network . Also the application services gateway executes a customized virtual machine or a commercially available virtual machine such as the JAVA Virtual Machine on the operating system where the services framework such as OSGi or JINI operates through the virtual machine rather than through direct execution from an operating system. Alternatively the application services gateway may execute a services framework directly through an operating system. The services framework in conjunction with a real time operating system allows the application program service installations and life cycle management to occur without service interruption at the application services gateway . Additional details and alternatives for the application services gateway and related program modules are discussed below with reference to .

As discussed above the WAN may be a publicly accessible network such as the Internet or may be a private WAN. Through the WAN a remote services gateway has access to the data link to the communications gateway . The remote services gateway channels data between a services platform and the application services gateway of the residence . As one example the services platform consists of an application web server an application program service repository server a services database and a family home page website. The services platform provides information including application program service data application update data application configuration data and related instructions to the application services gateway where the application programs services can be installed configured updated as necessary and executed when needed.

The services platform may also operate upon custom or commercially available frameworks matching those of the application services gateway . For example the OSGi framework may be utilized by the services platform to provide the remote installation and management of application programs services for application services gateways also employing the complementary OSGi framework. Also the application programs services provided from the services platform may be developed to operate upon a virtual machine that is employed by the application services gateway . Alternatively the application programs services may be developed to execute directly from the operating system of the application services gateway .

The application programs services update data and configuration data made available by the services platform may be provided from various vendors. Therefore it may be difficult to control standardization for new developments intended to be provided from the services platform to the application services gateway . Furthermore the operating systems may vary from one application services gateway to the next. A standard virtual machine as discussed above may be utilized so that the service framework is not operating system dependent. Furthermore a standard service framework ensures that application programs services designed by various vendors are more likely to be compatible with the application services gateway and existing application programs services.

As new developments are made available the services platform determines whether the application services gateway should receive a new application an update a new configuration for an application or whether other management activity should occur based on information known about the application services gateway . For example the services platform may maintain a database of the information that has been communicated to the application services gateway or alternatively the services platform may query the application services gateway for this information for embodiments of the application services gateway that stores this status information for reporting to the services platform upon request.

Additionally the application web server discussed above provides the family home page to the user through the network . The user can log onto the family home page through a home computer linked to the network and choose from a variety of service offerings available for the consumer as specified in the services database . The user can also log onto the family home page through computer that is connected to the network other than through the LAN of residence . Other possibilities for subscribing to a service are possible as well such as placing an order with a service representative over a telephone call. Upon selecting a service the services database is updated to indicate that this particular consumer has subscribed to a particular service and a link to the service is provided on the family home page to allow the consumer to access the service if necessary such as to terminate the service. Thus the administrative interface to the application services gateway is through a network based interface such as a web browser interface. Then the application repository server transfers the application program service to the service framework of the application services gateway for installation and execution to bring about the requested service. Additionally if a service is chosen that the existing application services gateway in the residence does not support due to lack of functionality then an additional services gateway is provided in the residence to perform the chosen application program service.

The processor accesses memory through the bus . The memory may include random access memory read only memory and any combination of the two. Programming for the processor may be stored in the memory where the processor is programmable. For example a basic input and output system may be stored in memory to control the processor upon boot up of the application services gateway . During the execution of processes the processor stores and retrieves relevant data from memory .

Additionally a set of program modules may be maintained in memory to be executed by the processor . Alternatively the set of program modules may be maintained in a storage device such as a hard disk drive that communicates with the processor through a controller linked to the bus or linked to an external interface of the application services gateway such as a serial port or the network interface such that the storage device may be integral to the application services gateway may be external to the application services gateway or may be remotely located from the application services gateway .

The set of program modules are implemented by the processor to provide the services of the various application programs. The particular stack orientation of the set of program modules may vary. Examples of the stack orientation for the set are shown in . The program modules include an operating system residing above and interacting with a network transport layer to handle the network communications. The operating system may be a commercially available version or a simplified operating system for specifically performing the basic functions necessary for implementation of the remaining program modules. In one or more embodiments the operating system is a real time operating system such as QNX to provide increased reliability and speed where high value services such as security camera monitoring are provided by the application services gateway . Additionally the real time operating system allows application programs services to be installed configured updated and or deleted without rebooting of the application services gateway so that other application programs services continue to function normally.

The set of program modules may include the virtual machine such as the JAVA virtual machine JVM discussed above for embodiments where the application programs services are designed to execute on the virtual machine rather than directly on the operating system. As discussed using a virtual machine allows the service framework to be developed without regard for the particular operating system that an application services gateway may be employing.

The set of program modules may also include a service framework module discussed above such as the OSGi framework or the JINI framework that operates upon the virtual machine and that implements the logical operations necessary to communicate with the remote services platform as to facilitate the network based lifecycle management of the application programs services. The service framework module or may be included to facilitate the remote installation and management of the application programs services due to the application programs services being executed upon the service framework rather than directly on the virtual machine or operating system . The logical operations of the service framework module or are discussed in more detail below with reference to . These logical operations may be brought about through implementation in accordance with the OSGi or other similar service framework such as JINI .

The OSGi service framework specification delineates Application Programming Interface API standards that address service life cycle management inter service dependencies data management device management client access resource management and security. Using these APIs the service platform can automatically download network based services while the application services gateway manages the installation versioning and configuration of these services accordingly.

The application programs services may be configured to be executed in a variety of ways for various embodiments of the application services gateway . For example the application program service provided from the services platform may be configured to execute directly atop the operating system such as where the application program service includes logic to either control its own lifecycle or logic to receive lifecycle control from the services platform as specified in .

Another example of an application program service is application program service which is configured to operate atop the OSGi framework wherein the OSGi framework communicates with the services platform to provide the lifecycle management as specified in . As another similar example application program service is configured to operate atop the JINI framework wherein the JINI framework communicates with the services platform to provide the lifecycle management. Another example may involve an application program service that operates in conjunction with the OSGi framework atop the JVM but also has some interaction directly with the JVM and or operating system .

In addition to application programs services operating atop the operating system or on a service framework atop a virtual machine other configurations may be used where middleware operates atop the operating system to provide a platform for application programs services . In this example the middleware and or the application program service is configured with logic to provide lifecycle management or to receive lifecycle management commands from the services platform as shown in .

The application services gateway also includes a network interface component that is linked to the bus to allow the processor to send and receive data over the LAN of the residence . The network interface component may be of various forms such as an Ethernet interface an 802.11B interface a home phone networking alliance HPNA interface or other local area network interface that allows the application services gateway to communicate with the communications gateway . Additionally the network interface component may act as a device interface to allow the application services gateway to communicate with devices within the residential LAN that are controlled by or otherwise interact with the application programs services of the application services gateway . The application services gateway establishes communication with the remote services platform of the WAN through the communication link between the network interface and the communications gateway .

The application services gateway may also include one or more external interfaces connected to the bus . Examples of the external interfaces include user interfaces and device interfaces. A user interface provides interaction with an application program service. For example one or more application programs services of the application services gateway may involve end user interaction such as a date book or to do list and these application programs services may provide output to the user and receive input from the user through the user interface. The user interface may be of various forms such as the combination of a conventional display device and keyboard keypad or mouse or alternatively may be a touch screen.

Device interfaces establish the interaction between the application services gateway and the devices of systems that are being acted upon by the application programs services. As discussed above the application services gateway may interface with an HVAC system requiring a particular interface such as a power line modem. Alternatively or additionally the application services gateway may interface with security cameras requiring the same or a different interface such as an 802.11b wireless interface. As another example the device interface may be an external bus connection to one or more add on devices such as a universal serial bus connection to an add on power line modem and or 802.11b wireless access point.

Once the in coming notification has been received the application services gateway determines the requested management activity from the received notification at determination operation . To effectuate the remote installation and management of application programs services the application services gateway is configured to perform various tasks in response to the instructions from the services platform . After determining the particular activity to perform the application services gateway then follows the procedure for the activity at procedure operation . The management activity and associated procedure may be stored at the application services gateway so that the procedure to follow is accessed by a look up of the requested activity. Alternatively the services platform may transmit the procedural steps to be performed to the application services gateway .

Many different management activities are possible. For example the management activity and associated procedure may involve installation operation . At this operation the application services gateway receives application program service data being downloaded to the application services gateway from the services platform such as in response to the consumer subscribing to a new service. The application services gateway then stores the new application program service so that the program service can be executed by the virtual machine or middleware or directly from the operating system depending upon the application service and configuration of the application services gateway .

Another example of a management activity and associated procedure is the execution operation . At this operation the application services gateway begins execution of a particular application program service stored or otherwise directly accessible by the application services gateway . In certain embodiments the execution operation may be an automatic response to the installation operation .

Delete operation provides another example of a management activity and an associated procedure. At delete operation the application services gateway deletes an application program service from storage. Deleting an application may be necessary to maintain adequate storage resources for the application services gateway or because a new version of the application program service to be deleted is available. In certain embodiments the delete operation may be an automatic response to the stop operation discussed below.

Installation operation provides another example of a management activity and procedure. At this operation the application services gateway receives update data being downloaded form the services platform for an application that is already stored. For example a particular file of the application program service may be revised updated or added to provide new functionality or increased reliability for the application program service. The update data is then stored along with the existing application program service so that the update may be employed during execution.

Configuration operation provides an additional management activity and procedure. At configuration operation the application services gateway receives configuration data being downloaded from the services platform for an application program service that is already stored. The configuration data controls how the application program service operates such as for example the particular options that an application program service provides may be set by the configuration data for execution.

Another example of a management activity and procedure is the stop operation . At stop operation the application services gateway terminates operation of an application program service that is currently being executed. This operation may result from a user request or from the services platform recognizing that the application program service is no longer needed or will be replaced by a newer version.

During the performance of the logical operations of the application services gateway continues to execute application programs services. Therefore the remote installation and management operations do not interfere with the application programs services operability. Thus high value services provided through application programs services such as those that control or monitor security systems are not interrupted while the application services gateway performs the management activities requested by the services platform .

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to illustrative embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other changes in the form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

