---

title: Systems and methods for identifying damage in a structure
abstract: Systems, methods and recordable media for identifying damage in a structure. A method includes the steps of: obtaining a plurality of damage index values for a network coupled to the structure, wherein each of the damage index values is a quantity to be affected by damage in the structure; generating a distribution of damage index value over a surface using the obtained damage index values; and identifying the damage by analyzing the distribution.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07590510&OS=07590510&RS=07590510
owner: Advanced Structure Monitoring, Inc.
number: 07590510
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070710
---
This application is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 10 942 714 entitled Method for monitoring structural health conditions by Kim filed on Sep. 16 2004 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Applications No. 60 505 120 entitled sensor and system for structural health monitoring filed on Sep. 22 2003 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to diagnostics of structures and more particularly to methods for monitoring structural health conditions.

As all structures in service require appropriate inspection and maintenance they should be monitored for their integrity and health condition to prolong their life or to prevent catastrophic failure. Apparently the structural health monitoring has become an important topic in recent years. Numerous methods have been employed to identify fault or damage of structures where these methods may include conventional visual inspection and non destructive techniques such as ultrasonic and eddy current scanning acoustic emission and X ray inspection. These conventional methods require at least temporary removal of structures from service for inspection. Although still used for inspection of isolated locations they are time consuming and expensive.

With the advance of sensor technologies new diagnostic techniques for in situ structural integrity monitoring have been in significant progress. Typically these new techniques utilize sensory systems of appropriate sensors and actuators built in host structures. However these approaches have drawbacks and may not provide effective on line methods to implement a reliable sensory network system and or accurate monitoring methods that can diagnose classify and forecast structural condition with the minimum intervention of human operators. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 814 729 issued to Wu et al. discloses a method that detects the changes of damping characteristics of vibrational waves in a laminated composite structure to locate delaminated regions in the structure. Piezoceramic devices are applied as actuators to generate the vibrational waves and fiber optic cables with different grating locations are used as sensors to catch the wave signals. A drawback of this system is that it cannot accommodate a large number of actuator arrays and as a consequence each of actuators and sensors must be placed individually. Since the damage detection is based on the changes of vibrational waves traveling along the line of sight paths between the actuators and sensors this method fails to detect the damage located out of the paths and or around the boundary of the structure.

Another approach for damage detection can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 184 516 issued to Blazic et al. that discloses a self contained conformal circuit for structural health monitoring and assessment. This conformal circuit consists of a series of stacked layers and traces of strain sensors where each sensor measures strain changes at its corresponding location to identify the defect of a conformal structure. The conformal circuit is a passive system i.e. it does not have any actuator for generating signals. A similar passive sensory network system can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 399 939 issued to Mannur J. et al. In Mannur 939 patent a piezoceramic fiber sensory system is disclosed having planner fibers embedded in a composite structure. A drawback of these passive methods is that they cannot monitor internal delamination and damages between the sensors. Moreover these methods can detect the conditions of their host structures only in the local areas where the self contained circuit and the piezoceramic fiber are affixed.

One method for detecting damages in a structure is taught by U.S. Pat. No. 6 370 964 Chang et al. . Chang et al. discloses a sensory network layer called Stanford Multi Actuator Receiver Transduction SMART Layer. The SMART Layer includes piezoceramic sensors actuators equidistantly placed and cured with flexible dielectric films sandwiching the piezoceramic sensors actuators or shortly piezoceramics . The actuators generate acoustic waves and sensors receive transform the acoustic waves into electric signals. To connect the piezoceramics to an electronic box metallic clad wires are etched using the conventional flexible circuitry technique and laminated between the substrates. As a consequence a considerable amount of the flexible substrate area is needed to cover the clad wire regions. In addition the SMART Layer needs to be cured with its host structure made of laminated composite layers. Due to the internal stress caused by a high temperature cycle during the curing process the piezoceramics in the SMART Layer can be micro fractured. Also the substrate of the SMART Layer can be easily separated from the host structure. Moreover it is very difficult to insert or attach the SMART Layer to its host structure having a curved section and as a consequence a compressive load applied to the curved section can easily fold the clad wires. Fractured piezoceramics and the folded wires may be susceptible to electromagnetic interference noise and provide misleading electrical signals. In harsh environments such as thermal stress field shock and vibration the SMART Layer may not be a robust and unreliable tool for monitoring structural health. Furthermore the replacement of damaged and or defective actuators sensors may be costly as the host structure needs to be dismantled.

Another method for detecting damages in a structure is taught by U.S. Pat. No. 6 396 262 Light et al. . Light et al. discloses a magnetostrictive sensor for inspecting structural damages where the sensor includes a ferromagnetic strip and a coil closely located to the strip. The major drawback of this system is that the system cannot be designed to accommodate an array of sensors and consequently cannot detect internal damages located between sensors.

Due to the mentioned drawbacks the methodologies for analyzing data that are implemented in these conventional systems may have limitations in monitoring the host structures in an accurate and efficient manner. Thus there is a need for new and efficient methodologies for analyzing and interpreting the data from the host systems to determine structural conditions and to prognosticate failures.

Accordingly it is one object of the invention to provide an accurate technique for determining the structural condition by using different types of methods such as bisection intersection and adaptive neural fuzzy inference positioning of network paths where the technique is incorporated with convex set interpolation.

It is another object of the invention to provide a reliable technique for determining the structural condition by integrating the computed tomography algorithms for different structural condition indices.

It is yet another object of the invention to provide a method for interpreting the structural condition by the use of a hyperspectral tomography cube and a structural condition manifold.

It is still another object of the invention to provide a technique for classifying the structural condition by the use of a codebook template based classifier where the technique is incorporated with the multilayer perception on the tomography of a structure.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a prognostic technique for forecasting structural condition by modeling the diagnostic network system and updating its parameters where the technique is incorporated with system identification and a supervised learning algorithm.

These and other objects and advantages are attained by a structural health monitoring software that comprises interrogation processing classification and prognosis modules and analyses data from a diagnostic network patch DNP system that is attached to a host composite and or metallic structure. The DNP system contains actuators sensors and provides an internal wave ray communication network in the host structure by transmitting acoustic wave impulses or equivalently Lamb waves between the actuators sensors.

According to one aspect of the present invention a method of identifying damage in a structure includes the steps of obtaining a plurality of damage index values for a network coupled to a structure each of the damage index values being a quantity to be affected by damage in the structure generating by use of a computer process a distribution of damage index value over a surface using the obtained damage index values and identifying the damage by analyzing the distribution.

According to another aspect of the present invention a computer readable medium carries one or more sequences of instructions for identifying damage in a structure wherein execution of one or more sequences of instructions by one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform the steps of obtaining a plurality of damage index values for a network coupled to a structure each of the damage index values being a quantity to be affected by damage in the structure generating by use of a computer process a distribution of damage index value over a surface using the obtained damage index values and identifying the damage by analyzing the distribution.

According to still another aspect of the present invention a system for identifying damage in a structure includes means for obtaining a plurality of damage index values for a network coupled to the structure each of the damage index values being a quantity to be affected by damage in the structure means for generating by use of a computer process a distribution of damage index value over a surface using the obtained damage index values and means for identifying the damage by analyzing the distribution.

These and other advantages and features of the invention will become apparent to those persons skilled in the art upon reading the details of the invention as more fully described below.

Although the following detained description contains many specifics for the purposes of illustration those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following detains are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the following embodiments of the invention are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitation upon the claimed invention.

The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be independently confirmed.

The substrate may be attached to a host structure using a structural adhesive typically a cast thermosetting epoxy such as butyralthenolic acrylic polyimide nitriale phenolic or aramide. The substrate may be an insulation layer for thermal heat and electromagnetic interference protecting the piezoelectric device affixed to it. In some applications the dielectric substrate may need to cope with a temperature above 250 C. Also it may have a low dielectric constant to minimize signal propagation delay interconnection capacitance and crosstalk between the piezoelectric device and its host structure and high impedance to reduce power loss at high frequency.

The substrate may be made of various materials. Kapton polyimide manufactured by DuPont Wilmington Del. may be preferably used for its commonplace while other three materials of Teflon perfluoroalkoxy PFA poly p xylylene PPX and polybenzimidazole PBI can be used for their specific applications. For example PFA film may have good dielectric properties and low dielectric loss to be suitable for low voltage and high temperature applications. PPX and PBI may provide stable dielectric strength at high temperatures.

The piezoelectric layer can be made of piezoelectric ceramics crystals or polymers. A piezoelectric crystal such as PZN PT crystal manufactured by TRS Ceramics Inc. State College Pa. may be preferably employed in the design of the piezoelectric device due to its high strain energy density and low strain hysteresis. For small size patch sensors the piezoelectric ceramics such as PZT ceramics manufactured by Fuji Ceramic Corporation Tokyo Japan or APC International Ltd. Mackeyville Pa. may be used for the piezoelectric layer . The top and bottom conductive flakes and may be made of metallic material such as Cr or Au and applied to the piezoelectric layer by the conventional sputtering process. In the piezoelectric device is shown to have only a pair of conductive flakes. However it should be apparent to those of ordinary skill that the piezoelectric device may have the multiple stacks of conductive flakes having various thicknesses to optimize the performance of the piezoelectric layer in generating detecting signal waves. The thickness of each flake may be determined by the constraints of thermal and mechanical loads given in a particular host structure that the patch sensor is attached to.

To sustain temperature cycling each layer of the piezoelectric device may need to have a thermal expansion coefficient similar to those of other layers. Yet the coefficient of a typical polyimide comprising the substrate may be about 4 6 10Kwhile that of a typical piezoelectric ceramic crystal comprising the piezoelectric layer may be about 3 10K. Such thermal expansion mismatch may be a major source of failure of the piezoelectric device . The failure of piezoelectric device may require a replacement of the patch sensor from its host structure. As mentioned the buffer layer may be used to reduce the negative effect of the thermal coefficient mismatch between the piezoelectric layer and the substrate .

The buffer layer may be made of conductive polymer or metal preferably aluminum Al with the thermal expansion coefficient of 2 10K. One or more buffer layers made of alumina silicon or graphite may replace or be added to the buffer layer . In one embodiment the thickness of the buffer layer made of aluminum may be nearly equal to that of the piezoelectric layer which is approximately 0.25 mm including the two conductive flakes and of about 0.05 mm each. In general the thickness of the buffer layer may be determined by the material property and thickness of its adjacent layers. The buffer layer may provide an enhanced durability against thermal loads and consistency in the twofold function of the piezoelectric device . In an alternative embodiment the piezoelectric device may have another buffer layer applied over the top conductive flake .

Another function of the buffer layer may be amplifying signals received by the substrate . As Lamb wave signals generated by a patch sensor propagate along a host structure the intensity of the signals received by another patch sensor attached on the host structure may decrease as the distance between the two patch sensors increases. When a Lamb signal arrives at the location where a patch sensor is located the substrate may receive the signal. Then depending on the material and thickness of the buffer layer the intensity of the received signal may be amplified at a specific frequency. Subsequently the piezoelectric device may convert the amplified signal into electrical signal.

As moisture mobile ions and hostile environmental condition may degrade the performance and reduce the lifetime of the patch sensor two protective coating layers a molding layer and a cover layer may be used. The molding layer may be made of epoxy polyimide or silicone polyimide by the normal dispensing method. Also the molding layer may be formed of a low thermal expansion polyimide and deposited over the piezoelectric device and the substrate . As passivation of the molding layer does not make a conformal hermetic seal the cover layer may be deposited on the molding layer to provide a hermitic seal. The cover layer may be made of metal such as nickel Ni chromium Cr or silver Ag and deposited by a conventional method such as electrolysis or e beam evaporation and sputtering. In one embodiment an additional film of epoxy or polyimide may be coated on the cover layer to provide a protective layer against scratching and cracks.

The hoop layer may be made of dielectric insulating material such as silicon nitride or glass and encircle the piezoelectric device mounted on the substrate to prevent the conductive components of the piezoelectric device from electrical shorting.

The patch sensor may be affixed to a host structure to monitor the structural health conditions. Also the patch sensor may be incorporated within a laminate. is a schematic cross sectional view of a composite laminate having a patch sensor therewithin. As illustrated in the host structure includes a plurality of plies and at least one patch sensor cured with the plurality of plies . In one embodiment the plies may be impregnated with adhesive material such as epoxy resin prior to the curing process. During the curing process the adhesive material from the plies may fill cavities . To obviate such accumulation of the adhesive material the hoop layer may have a configuration to fill the cavity .

The hoop layer may have one or more sublayers of different dimensions so that the outer contour of the hoop layer may match the geometry of cavity . By filling the cavity with sublayers the adhesive material may not be accumulated during the curing process of the laminate .

The optical fiber coil may be a Sagnac interferometer and operate to receive Lamb wave signals. The elastic strain on the surface of a host structure incurred by Lamb wave may be superimposed on the pre existing strain of the optical fiber cable incurred by bending and tensioning. As a consequence the amount of frequency phase change in light traveling through the optical fiber cable may be dependent on the total length of the optical fiber cable . In one embodiment considering its good immunity to electromagnetic interference and vibrational noise the optical fiber coil may be used as the major sensor while the piezoelectric device can be used as an auxiliary sensor.

The optical fiber coil exploits the principle of Doppler s effect on the frequency of light traveling through the rolled optical fiber cable . For each loop of the optical fiber coil the inner side of the optical fiber loop may be under compression while the outer side may be under tension. These compression and tension may generate strain on the optical fiber cable . The vibrational displacement or strain of the host structure incurred by Lamb waves may be superimposed on the strain of the optical fiber cable . According to a birefringence equation the reflection angle on the cladding surface of the optical fiber cable may be a function of the strain incurred by the compression and or tension. Thus the inner and outer side of each optical fiber loop may make reflection angles different from that of a straight optical fiber and consequently the frequency of light may shift from a centered input frequency according to the relative flexural displacement of Lamb wave as light transmits through the optical fiber coil .

In one embodiment the optical fiber coil may include 10 to 30 turns of the optical fiber cable and have a smallest loop diameter d of at least 10 mm. There may be a gap d between the innermost loop of the optical fiber coil and the outer periphery of the piezoelectric device . The gap may depend on the smallest loop diameter and the diameter d of the piezoelectric device and be preferably larger than the diameter by about two or three times of the diameter d of the optical fiber cable .

The coating layer may be comprised of a metallic or polymer material preferably an epoxy to increase the sensitivity of the optical fiber coil to the flexural displacement or strain of Lamb waves guided by its host structure. Furthermore a controlled tensional force can be applied to the optical fiber cable during the rolling process of the optical fiber cable to give additional tensional stress. The coating layer may sustain the internal stress of the rolled optical fiber cable and allow a uniform in plane displacement relative to the flexural displacement of Lamb wave for each optical loop.

The coating layer may also be comprised of other material such as polyimide aluminum copper gold or silver. The thickness of the coating layer may range from about 30 to two times of the diameter . The coating layer comprised of polymer material may be applied in two ways. In one embodiment a rolled optic fiber cable may be laid on the substrate and the polymer coating material may be sprayed by a dispenser such as Biodot spay coater. In another embodiment a rolled optic fiber cable may be dipped into a molten bath of the coating material.

Coating layer comprised of metal may be applied by a conventional metallic coating technique such as magnetron reactive or plasma assisted sputtering as well as electrolysis. Specially the zinc oxide can be used as the coating material of the coating layer to provide the piezoelectric characteristic for the coating layer . When zinc oxide is applied to top and bottom surfaces of the rolled optical fiber cable the optical fiber coil may contract or expand concentrically in radial direction responding to electrical signals. Furthermore the coating material of silicon oxide or tantalum oxide can also be used to control the refractive index of the rolled fiber optical cable . Silicon oxide or tantalum oxide may be applied using the indirect direct ion beam assisted deposition technique or electron beam vapor deposition technique. It is noted that other methods may be used for applying the coating layer to the optical fiber cable without deviating from the present teachings.

The piezoelectric device and the optical fiber coil may be affixed to the substrate using physically setting adhesives instead of common polymers where the physically setting adhesives may include but not limited to butylacrylate ethylacrylate copolymer styrene butadiene isoprene terpolymer and polyurethane alkyd resin. The adhesive properties of these materials may remain constant during and after the coating process due to the lack of cross linking in the polymeric structure. Furthermore those adhesives may be optimized for wetting a wide range of substrate without compromising their sensitivity to different analytes compared to conventional polymers.

As in the case of the patch sensor the hybrid patch sensor may be affixed to a host structure and or incorporated within a composite laminate. In one embodiment the hoop layer may be similar to the hoop layer to fill the cavity formed by the patch sensor and the composite laminate.

It is noted that the optical fiber coils and show in may be attached directly to a host structure and used as optical fiber coil sensors. For this reason hereinafter the terms optical fiber coil and optical fiber coil sensor will be used interchangeably. are alternative embodiments of the optical fiber coil . As illustrated in the optical fiber coil may include an optical fiber cable having two ends and being rolled in the same manner as the cable and a coating layer . The coil may have a hole to accommodate a fastener as will be explained later. Likewise the optical fiber coil in may include an optical fiber cable having two ends and being rolled in the same manner as the cable and a coating layer . The coil may have a hole to accommodate a fastener. is a schematic side cross sectional view of the optical fiber coil taken along the direction DD of .

It should be noted that the sensors described in may be incorporated within a laminate in a similar manner as described in .

The material and function of the optical fiber coil and the piezoelectric device may be similar to those of the optical fiber coil and the piezoelectric device of the hybrid patch sensor . In one embodiment the piezoelectric device may be similar to the device except that the device has a hole . The optical fiber coil and the piezoelectric device may be affixed to the support element using a conventional epoxy. The support element may have a notch through which the ends of the optical fiber coil and the pair of electrical wires may pass.

In the diagnostic patch washer may operate as an actuator sensor and have the optical fiber coil and the piezoelectric device . In an alternative embodiment the diagnostic patch washer may operate as a sensor and have the optical fiber coil only. In another alternative embodiment the diagnostic patch washer may operate as an actuator sensor and have the piezoelectric device only.

As shown in the diagnostic patch washer may have a hollow space to accommodate other fastening device such as a bolt or rivet. is a schematic diagram of an exemplary bolt jointed structure using the diagnostic patch washer in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In the bolt jointed structure a conventional bolt nut and washer may be used to hold a pair of structures such as plates. It is well known that structural stress may be concentrated near a bolt jointed area and prone to structural damages. The diagnostic patch washer may be incorporated in the bolt joint structure and used to detect such damages.

As shown in the outer perimeter of the covering disk may have a slant angle to form a locking mechanism which can keep optical fiber coil and the piezoelectric device from excessive contact load by the torque applied to the bolt and nut .

The device may be one of the sensors described in and that may include a piezoelectric device for generating Lamb waves and receiving Lamb waves generated by other devices. To generate Lamb waves a waveform generator may receive the digital signals of the excitation waveforms from computer more specifically an analog output card included in the computer through the relay switch array module . In one embodiment the waveform generator may be an analog output card.

The relay switch array module may be a conventional plug in relay board. As a cross talks linker between the actuators and sensors the relay switches included in the relay switch array module may be coordinated by the microprocessor of the computer to select each relay switch in a specific sequencing order. In one embodiment analog signals generated by the waveform generator may be sent to other actuator s through a branching electric wire .

The device may function as a sensor for receiving Lamb waves. The received signals may be sent to the conditioner that may adjust the signal voltage and filter electrical noise to select meaningful signals within an appropriate frequency bandwidth. Then the filtered signal may be sent to the analog to digital converter which may be a digital input card. The digital signals from the analog to digital converter may be transmitted through the relay switch array module to the computer for further analysis.

The sensor more specifically the optic fiber coil included in the sensor may operate as a laser Doppler velocitimeter LDV . The laser source preferably a diode laser may emit an input carrier light signal to the modulator . The modulator may be a heterodyne modulator and split the carrier input signal into two signals one for the sensor and the other for AOM . The sensor may shift the input carrier signal by a Doppler s frequency corresponding to Lamb wave signals and transmit it to the modulator where the modulator may be a heterodyne synchronizer. The modulator may demodulate the transmitted light to remove the carrier frequency of light. The photo detector preferably a photo diode may convert the demodulated light signal into an electrical signal. Then the A D converter may digitize the electrical signal and transmit to the computer via the relay switch array module . In one embodiment the coupler may couple an optical fiber cable connected to another sensor .

Transmission links may be terminated at the bridge box . The bridge box may connect the patches to admit signals from an external waveform generator and to send received signals to an external A D converter . The bridge box may be connected through an electrical optical cable and can contain an electronic conditioner for conditioning actuating signals filtering received signals and converting fiber optic signals to electrical signals. Using the relay switch array module the data acquisition system coupled to the bridge box can relay the patches and multiplex received signals from the patches into the channels in a predetermined sequence order.

It is well known that the generation and detection of Lamb waves is influenced by the locations of actuators and sensors on a host structure. Thus the patches should be properly paired in a network configuration to maximize the usage of Lamb waves for damage identification.

The computer may coordinate the operation of patches such that they may function as actuators and or sensors. Arrows represents the propagation of Lamb waves generated by patches . In general defects in the host structure may affect the transmission pattern in the terms of wave scattering diffraction and transmission loss of Lamb waves. The defects may include damages crack and delamination of composite structures etc. The defects may be monitored by detecting the changes in transmission pattern of Lamb waves captured by the patches .

The network configuration of DNP system is important in Lamb wave based structural health monitoring systems. In the network configuration of DNP system the wave ray communication paths should be uniformly randomized. Uniformity of the communication paths and distance between the patches can determine the smallest detectible size of defects in the host structure . An optimized network configuration with appropriate patch arrangement may enhance the accuracy of the damage identification without increasing the number of the patches .

Another configuration for building up wave cross talk paths between patches may be a pentagonal network as shown in . is a schematic diagram of a diagnostic network patch system having a pentagon network configuration in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. The system may be applied to a host structure and may include patches a bridge box connected to a computer and transmission links . The patches may be a device or a sensor . As in the system the patches may detect a defect by sending or receiving Lamb waves indicated by the arrows .

The bridge box may operate in two ways. In one embodiment the bridge box may operate as a signal emitter. In this embodiment the bridge box may comprise micro miniature transducers and a microprocessor of a RF telemetry system that may send the structural health monitoring information to the ground communication system via wireless signals . In another embodiment the bridge box may operate as a receiver of electromagnetic waves. In this embodiment the bridge box may comprise an assembly for receiving power from the ground communication system via wireless signals where the received power may be used to operate a DNP system applied to the structure . The assembly may include a micro machined silicon substrate that has stimulating electrodes complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar power regulation circuitry hybrid chip capacitors and receiving antenna coils.

The structure of the bridge box may be similar to the outer layer of the host structure . In one embodiment the bridge box may have a multilayered honeycomb sandwich structure where a plurality of micro strip antennas are embedded in the outer faceplate of the multilayered honeycomb sandwich structure and operate as conformal load bearing antennas. The multilayered honeycomb sandwich structure may comprise a honeycomb core and multilayer dielectric laminates made of organic and or inorganic materials such as e glass epoxy Kevlar epoxy graphite epoxy aluminum or steel. As the integrated micro machining technology evolves rapidly the size and production cost of the micro strip antennas may be reduced further which may translate to savings of operational production costs of the bridge box without compromising its performance.

The scope of the invention is not intended to limit to the use of the standard Wireless Application Protocol WAP and the wireless markup languages for a wireless structural health monitoring system. With a mobile Internet toolkit the application system can build a secure site to which structural condition monitoring or infrastructure management can be correctly accessed by a WAP enable cell phone a Pocket PC with a HTML browser or other HTML enabled devices.

As a microphone array may be used to find the direction of a moving source a clustered sensor array may be used to find damaged locations by measuring the difference in time of signal arrivals. is a schematic diagram of a diagnostic network patch system having clustered sensors in a strip network configuration in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in FIG. A the system may be applied to a host structure and include clustered sensors and transmission links . Each clustered sensor includes two receivers and and one actuator receiver device . Each of the receivers and may be one of the sensors described in while the actuator receiver device may be one of the sensors described in and and have a piezoelectric device for generating Lamb waves. When the actuator receiver of a clustered sensor sends Lamb waves the neighboring clustered sensors may receive the Lamb waves using all three elements i.e. the actuator receiver device and receivers and . By using all three elements as a receiver unit each clustered sensor can receive more refined Lamb wave signals. Also by measuring the difference in time of arrivals between the three elements the direction of the defect may be located with enhanced accuracy.

It is noted that in the sensors and have been illustrated as optical fiber coil sensors . However it should apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that each of the sensors and may be one of the sensors described in while each of the middle sensors and may be one of the sensors described in A D and and have a piezoelectric device for generating Lamb waves. Also the clustered sensors and may be incorporated within a composite laminate in the same manner as described in .

Signals may represent sensor signals received by sensors. As can be noticed each signal may have wave packets and separated by signal extracting windows or equivalently envelops and respectively. These wave packets and may have different frequencies due to the dispersion modes at the sensor location. It is noted that the signal partitioning windows have been applied to identify Lamb wave signal from each sensor signal. The wave packets and correspond to a fundamental symmetric mode S a reflected mode Sand a fundamental antisymmetric mode A respectively. The reflected mode Smay represent the reflection of Lamb waves from a host structure boundary. A basic shear mode S and other higher modes can be observed. However they are not shown in for simplicity.

Portions of sensor signals may be electrical noise due to the toneburst actuator signal . To separate the portions from the rest of sensor signals masking windows which may be a sigmoid function delayed in the time period of actuation may be applied to sensor signals as threshold functions. Then moving wave envelope windows and along the time history of each sensor signal may be employed to extract the wave packets and from the sensor signal of . The wave packets and may be the sensor part of the sensor signal . The envelope windows and may be determined by applying a hill climbing algorithm that searches for peaks and valleys of the sensor signals and interpolating the searched data point in time axis. The magnitude and position of each data point in the wave signal may be stored if the magnitude of the closest neighborhood data points are less than that of the current data point until the comparison of wave magnitude in the forward and backward direction continues to all the data points of the wave signal. Once wave envelopes are obtained each envelope may break into sub envelope windows and with time spans corresponding to those of Lamb wave modes. The sub envelop windows and may be applied to extract wave packets and by moving along the entire time history of each measured sensor signal .

Upon completion of applying a DNP system to a host structure a structural health monitoring software may start processing the DNP system where the monitoring software may comprise interrogation processing classification and prognosis modules. is a flow chart illustrating exemplary procedures of the interrogation module in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The interrogating module may find damages identify impacts and monitor the curing and repaired boning patch performance of the host structures. In step the interrogation module may partition the diagnostic patches of the DNP system into subgroup sets and designate one actuator in each of the subgroups. It is noted that each of the diagnostic patches may function as an actuator at one point in time and thereafter the same patch may be switched to function as a sensor. illustrates an example of actuator network architecture that may include subgroups partitioned by the interrogation module in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As each of the actuators and may also function as a sensor various combinations of subgroups can be formed of those actuators. Arrows represent the propagation of Lamb wave signals between actuators and . Table 1 shows the possible subgroups where each group has one actuator. For example subgroup 1 has one actuator A and two sensors A and A .

It is noted that each of the thirteen sensors in may also function as an actuator. However only one patch in each subgroup will operate as an actuator at one point in time while the other patches are synchronized to operate as sensors. As in the case of one sensor such as s may belong to more than one subgroup group 5 and 6 . In only four actuator sensors and thirteen sensors are shown for clarity illustration. However it should be apparent to those of ordinary skill that the present invention may be practiced with any number of patches.

The network architecture of a diagnostic patch system such as shown in can be configured to maximize overall network performance with the minimum number of the actuators and sensors. The diagnostic network can be represented by an undirected graph G N E in which the nodes N and edges E represent the patch sites and wave communication paths respectively. The graph G may be a picture of the relation of the diagnostic network communication whereas the node points in represent the elements of actuator and sensor sets and solid lines as edges in represent the ordered pairs in the relation from the actuator set and the sensor set in the Table 1. A graph G is connected if there is at least one path between every pair of nodes i and j. In an exemplary optimal design for network path uniformity the following notation may be defined n is the number of nodes x 0 1 is a decision variable representing paths between nodes i and j and x x x . . . x is a topological architecture of network design. R x is a constraint of network design such as the number of the patches cis the cost variable of the network design such as the distance of Lamb wave propagation the number of intersection points on each network path being crossed by other network paths or the sensitivity factor to excitation frequency. The optimal design of diagnostic network can be represented as follows 

In another example of optimal group design each of the sensors in a network subgroup may be associated with one actuator of the group as illustrated in . The network performance may depend on the position and the number of the actuator and sensors in each subgroup. For this group layout of patches an actuator sensor matrix may be considered where each element i k of the matrix is 1 if the isensor is associated by the kactuator and 0 otherwise. In such a group design a common integer programming formulation which consists of the following assignment of variable declarations and constraint may be applied. Each actuator may be assigned to only one subgroup where each sensor may assigned to more than one subgroup xis 1 if iactuator is assigned to subgroup c and 0 otherwise yis 1 if jsensor is assigned to subgroup c and 0 otherwise. Two constraints may be expressed as 

Referring back to a genetic algorithm implemented in the interrogation module may design the network and signal paths in step . One or more artificial defects such as small detachable patches may be applied to the host structure to simulate damages. Then each actuator may send signal to sensors in one or more of the partitioned subgroups. Based on the signals received by the sensors the genetic algorithm may determine the optimum network signal paths and sequence order of the actuators so that the locations and types of the artificial defects can be accurately detected. Depending on the geometrical shapes and materials of the host structure the determination of subgroup sets may include the step of adjusting the number of actuator sensors in the communication network.

In step the actuator in isubgroup may be activated to generate the Lamb wave signals according to the sequential order from the relay switch array module shown in . Then the signals carrying structural condition information SCI may be measured by the sensors of jsubgroup in step where the jsubgroup may include the isubgroup. In step the interrogation module may compute the deviation of the measured signals from baseline signals wherein the baseline signals may be prepared by performing the steps and in the absence of the artificial defects. Next the interrogation module may store the deviation and measured signals into a suitable signal database depository such as computer as eXtensible Markup Language XML formatted documents in step . In addition the interrogation module may save the coordinates of the actuators and sensors as well as the set up information data including the actuation frequency the identification number of the actuators and sensors voltage level patch type and operational failure status. Subsequently the interrogation module may stop the interrogation process in step .

The interrogation module may perform the steps and at discrete set of excitation frequencies where the actuators of the DNP system may be activated at each excitation frequency to generate Lamb waves. Then the process module may process the stored sensor signals to determine structural condition index SCI for each network path at an excitation frequency. The SCI of a network path between a pair of actuator and sensor refers to a quantity that may be affected by damages of the host structure and as a consequence represent the degree of structural condition changes probably located in the interior region of the host structure. The SCI may include but not limited to the time of arrivals for Lamb wave modes the spectrum energy for Lamb wave modes distributed on their time frequency domain or peak amplitude of sensor signal. is a flow chart illustrating exemplary procedures for identifying and determining the time of arrivals for Lamb wave modes in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In step the process module may load a set of sensor signal data from a signal database depository such as computer where each sensor signal data may be measured at one excitation frequency. Hereinafter the excitation frequency refers to a frequency at which the actuators of the DNP system are activated to generate Lamb waves. The stored set up information data for the network patch system may be checked and the network path numbers may be identified to check whether the appropriate actuator and sensor are assigned to the path of each network link. Then in step the process module may detrend each of the loaded sensor signal data to remove a non stationary signal component. Next in step the electrical noise due to the toneburst actuator signal may be removed by applying a masking window to the detrended each signal data. Subsequently in step the short time Fourier or wavelet transformation may be performed on the noise removed signal data to obtain a time frequency signal energy distribution about the center frequency bandwidth of excitation along the time axis.

In step the process module may perform accumulating entire set of time frequency signal energy distributions to generate a multi bandwidth energy distribution on the time frequency plane. Then in step the process module may extract ridges curves from the multi bandwidth energy distribution on the time frequency plane. The ridges extracted from this energy distribution can show the trajectory curve of each wave mode and provide the local maxima along the frequency axis. In the ridge extraction searching the local maxima may be done on a fixed value in time axis where the maximum in the row of the distribution data may be compared to new two rows given by shifting the row one step in both directions and this maximum may be stored if it is greater than a predefined threshold. In step based on the ridge curves the process module may identify the trajectory of the S Sand Amode waves and of on the time frequency plane. Then the process module may stop identifying process in step .

As will be explained later the trajectory of the S Sand Amode waves determined in step may be utilized for designing the moving envelope windows of various time spans with respect to the mode waves. The ridge extraction method may provide an accurate determination of the arrival time of each mode wave so that the phase velocities and the arrival time differences between these modes can be exactly computed instead of calling for a dispersion curve formula of the structure. It is noted that the scope of the invention is not limited to the use of wavelet transformation in the time frequency interpretation method.

Moreover if the diagnostic measurement system use traditional vibration sensors such as accelerometers displacement transducers or strain gauges the process module can compute structural dynamic parameters such as natural frequencies damping ratios or mode shapes from vibrational signal dataset obtained at a plurality of vibration sensor locations. The process module may exploit the change in structural dynamic parameters as the SCI values when traditional vibration sensor signals are used instead of Lamb wave signals as another alternative embodiment.

After the process module computes the SCI data for all the network paths it may remove abnormal sensor signals possibly included in two datasets of the sensor signals corresponding to the baseline and damaged conditions of the host structure. For this purpose the process module may evaluate whether each sensor signal may have reasonable distribution of signal amplitudes in terms of probability. In step the process steps may determine the discrete probability density function DPDF on the signal amplitudes and estimate the 2nd 3rd and 4th moments of

In step the process module may compute the second PDF of a SCI dataset comprising SCI values for the sensor signals contained in the selected sensor signal dataset. Then based on the second PDF it may find the outliers of SCI values outside the 3 sigma of the SCI distribution in step . By checking the normality constants of the SCI outliers the process module may delete the SCI values of the outliers from the SCI dataset for more reliable structural health monitoring.

As the change in ambient temperature during the measurements of sensor signals can influence the sensor signals of Lamb waves the SCI values obtained from the Lamb wave sensor signals should be modified to compensate for the difference in ambient temperatures between the baseline and damaged structure conditions. The process module may check whether the measurement temperature of the baseline is different from that of the damaged structure condition. The process module may prepare a temperature reference table of Lamb waves. To establish the reference table it may compute the time span widths and maxima of the S mode envelopes for all of the network paths of the baseline structure and determine the average of the time span width data for the 95 network paths in the envelope maximum distribution. With the help of the reference table the process module can calculate a temperature adjustment parameter as the average ratio of the time span width in the baseline structure signals to the reference table value corresponding to the temperature of the damaged structure. In step the process module may compensate the effect of ambient temperature change on the sensor signals by scaling the SCI data of the damaged structure with the temperature adjustment parameter. Next the process module may store the SCI dataset as eXtensible Markup Language XML formatted documents in step . Subsequently in a determination step the process module may check if the SCI dataset for each of the excitation frequencies have been generated. Upon negative answer to the decision step the process may proceed to the step . Otherwise the process module may stop the process in step .

For any ipath line the process module may set a z axis Gaussian or generalized bell function in the plane normal to the path line direction such that the maximum at the center of the Gaussian function may be the SCI value of the path. In step this z axis function may be used to create a 3 dimensional block on the network path coordinate plane in the manner that the cross section of the Gaussian function may run in parallel to the path line from the beginning and the end of the path line. Actually this 3 dimensional function of the ipath line may intersect by being overlapped with other 3 dimensional functions of any other kpath lines. The SCI values at the intersection area may be determined by the product of the intersecting Gaussian SCI functions on the network path coordinate plane. The width of this 3 dimensional function in the cross section plane may be the shortest distance in all the path lines which is multiplied by the SCI value ratio of the ipath to the shortest distance path line. The process module may continue to compute the SCI values on the network plane until all the network paths are considered. In step the process module may interpolate the SCI dataset for each of the bisection the intersection and the 3 dim Gaussian function overlapping points over the mesh grid points made by dividing the entire region of the structure into small mesh elements. In this interpolation the process module may employ the Delaunay triangulation of the convex hull set for the grid data of SCI values.

By applying a genetic algorithm the process module may further refine the SCI distribution on the network path plane to precisely locate the damaged regions in the host structure. In step the process module may setup an initial population of chromosome and assign each chromosome to a corresponding one of the mesh grid points. Then in step the process module may rank the chromosomes by evaluating them with the correlation of the SCI distribution data of the neighboring grid points. In step the process module may select parents from the population using a random selection procedure biased so that the parents with highest evaluations are most likely to reproduce. The process module may also reproduce children from some combination of the parents so that possible random mutation of children takes place. Then in step the parent chromosomes may be replaced by the children chromosomes. Steps may be repeated over a number of generations until a complete new population of children is established in step where the children may be evaluated and the entire population of parents is replaced to become parents themselves. Then in step the process module may get the refined SCI distribution on the gird points with the composition of the final population of chromosomes.

The SCI distribution on the mesh grid points corresponding to the final chromosomes may represent the degree of changes in the structural condition of the host structure. The regions of area where the structural condition changes or damages may occur in the host structure can be exactly identified from this refined SCI distribution. In step for the structural condition or damage identification of the host structure the process module can provide a genetic based tomography image using the interpolated SCI distribution. Also by repeating the steps at a set of excitation frequencies a set of tomographic images may be obtained.

The process module can also employ a simultaneous iterative reconstruction technique to investigate the defect characteristics of a suspicious region of the host structure. In step the network paths may be rearranged to focus on a suspicious region. Then in step the process module may apply the simultaneous iterative reconstruction technique to the loaded time of arrival dataset to investigate the defect characteristics of the suspicious region. Next based on the reconstructed dataset a tomographic image of the suspicious region may be generated in step . In one embodiment the steps may be repeated to generate a set of tomographic images for the suspicious region where each tomographic image may be based on a time of arrival dataset measured at a different excitation frequency. By stacking the set of tomographic images a hyperspectral tomography cube of the suspicious region may be obtained.

In another embodiment the genetic based distribution on the time of arrival dataset of the network paths incorporated with the ridge extraction method for the short time Fourier transformation STFT of sensor signals may be also used to determine the SCI distribution and generate a tomographic image. In this embodiment the tomographic image may be different from those in the steps or . The method of the ridge extraction and genetic based distribution for Lamb wave time of arrival dataset can employ the scattering operator eigenfunction based tomography imaging techniques known in the art.

When the process module displays a color tomographic image the range of colors may be adjusted to enhance the visibility of the hot spot zones having damage with respect to the background color. In addition the tomographic image can have colored marks and dotted lines to show the locations of actuators and sensors and the network path lines over a 2 or 3 dimensional image of the structural geometry. The process module may store the tomographic images as well as the range of colors into a tomography database depository. shows an example of tomography image obtained in step where the image is expressed in a gray scale. As can be noticed the regions may represent damages.

As mentioned in the step of the process module may determine SCI values near the intersection points of network paths. A classification module that includes a neuro fuzzy inference system may also determine the SCI values at the intersection points. is a schematic diagram illustrating procedures of a neuro fuzzy inference system for providing structured system condition index SCI distribution at the intersection points of network paths in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As explained in step each of the intersection points in the network paths has two crossing path lines with their SCI values and distances. To obtain structured SCI values at the intersection points the distance of two crossing path lines may be exploited by a fuzzy if then rule system collaborated with a neural network. Then this expert system may generate the output of SCI values of the intersecting paths.

For any of the n intersection points P Pn each of two crossing path line distances can be input into three fuzzy membership functions A B A B A B in the terms of short medium long distance. For the membership function generalized bell functions of 1 1 x c a i 1 2 3 may be used with the adjustment parameters of a c to cover each input region of the path line distance normalized to a structure dimension. In layer every node may be a fixed node labeled and generate an output vthat may be the product of the incoming signals of A B v x x k 1 . . . n. Each node output may represent the firing strength of a rule. Any inode of layer labeled N may calculate the ratio wof the irule s firing strength to the sum of all rules firing strengths w v v v v i 1 2 3 so that the output wof the layer may be a normalized firing strength. Moreover SCI values of step at intersecting paths in layer may be inputted into a multilayer perception or neural network. In layer each node may be adapted with a node function of c s s i 1 2 3 where cis the consequent parts in a network layered representation which can be compared with a simple backpropagation multilayer perception with the input layer of SCI values s Here s s require two SCI values of the intersecting path lines as input. If all three neurons and one neuron have identity functions in the presented neuro fuzzy is equivalent to Sugeno TSK fuzzy inference system which accomplishes linear fuzzy if then rules. Adjusting the relevant connection strengths or weighting factors on the neural network link according to the error distance may initiate the adaptation in the neural network. In one embodiment a sigmoidal function may be used as the neuron function in the consequent layer . In another embodiment the neural network layer can use a back propagation multilayer perception and radial basis function networks. In layer as an output of the consequent layer the node may compute the summation of all incoming signals like y wc wand generate output that may comprise the SCI values at intersection points.

The classification module may continue to classify the damage types or equivalently hot spot regions from the SCI distribution on the grid points. is a schematic diagram illustrating Gabor jets applied to a hot spot region in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in a hot spot region may be recognized and segmented from the background SCI distribution on the grid points. In general the shape and location of the hot spot region may vary according to the excitation frequency and the number of network paths. Also the diversity in physical characteristic and geometry of structures monitored may increase the difficulty level in classifying the damages. In one embodiment of the present invention the classification module may employ a multilayer perception MLP or feedforward neural network to classify the damage of hot spot region in a structure. The classification module may use Gabor wavelet features to combine those features into a MLP as will be explained later. The Gabor wavelet features may be obtained from the Gabor wavelet transformation of the SCI distribution with different orientations and multiresolution scales . The Gabor wavelet function may be defined as G x y exp x x y y 2 j u x x v y y where j square root over 1 x y are position parameters to localize the wavelet to a selected region u v are modulation parameters to orient the wavelet in a preferred direction and are scaled parameters. With a set of coefficient called Gabor jet the classification module may compute the Gabor project for multiple orientations and resolutions at a given hot spot region . Each Gabor jet may contain a number of coefficients corresponding to the number of orientations and the resolution levels such that it consists of logons of orientations and different scales. The classification module can capture local SCI distribution structure of each of the hot spot regions by computing a set of Gabor jets at several points of the region to get the input feature.

For each type of the structural condition or damage the diagnosis classification module may setup reference templates as a codebook in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The codebook for each type of damage may be the data set of cluster points of the different versions of SCI distribution or of wavelet transformation coefficients of the SCI distribution explained later in . Each template or SCI distribution for the hot spot region may be clustered by a K mean and learning vector quantization LVQ clustering algorithm. The K mean algorithm may partition a collection of n vector into c groups G i 1 . . . c and finds a cluster center in each group such that a cost function of dissimilarity measure may be minimized. This algorithm may use an unsupervised learning data clustering method to locate several clusters without using the class information. Once the K mean algorithm determines the clusters of SCI distribution of the hot spot region on the grid points the clustered data may be labeled before moving to the second step of a supervised learning to locate several cluster centers. During the supervised learning the cluster centers may be fine tuned to approximate a desired decision hypersurface. The learning method may be straightforward. First the cluster center c that is closest to the input vector x must be found. Then if x and c belong to the same class c is moved toward x otherwise c is moved form the input vector x. This LVQ algorithm can classify an input vector by assigning it to the same class as the output unit that has the weight vector closest to the input vector. Thus the LVQ network may use the class information of SCI values to fine tune the cluster centers to minimize the number of misclassified cases.

A structure suffers aging damage wear and degradation in terms of its operation service capabilities and reliability. So it needs a holistic view that the structural life has different stages starting with the elaboration of need right up to the phase out. Given a network patch system the current wave transmission of the network patch system may obey different time scales during the damage evolution to query the structure of its time variant structural properties. illustrates a schematic diagram of three evolution domains of a structure in operation service dynamics of the network patch system and network system matrix in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In illustrated in a slow time coordinate designating the structure damage evolution is introduced and in addition the fast time coordinate n describing the current network dynamics for the wave transmission is introduced.

In the fast timeframe nested in the long term lifetime the dynamic system of the diagnostic network patch system as a black box model to be identified from the input actuation and output sensing signals can be described by an autoregressive moving average with exogenous inputs ARMAX or state space model. Rather than using the ARMAX model possibly incorporated in a fault diagnostic system to query the functionality of built in system components the state space dynamics models of the network patch system at a fixed lifetime can be used. The state space dynamic model considered in non distributed domain for the brevity of explanation may be represented by x n 1 Ax n B n where the state vector x n is the wave transmission state vector of the network system and n is the input force vector of the actuators in the network patches. A B are the system matrix and the input matrix respectively. The excitation force for generating Lamb wave in all network paths is assumed to be unchanged during the lifetime of . The measurement equation of the network sensors is written as y n Cx n where y n is the sensor signal vector and C is the system observation matrix. The system matrix A B C of the diagnostic network patch system can be considered independent of the fast time coordinate.

To model the network dynamics of the diagnostic patch system the prognosis module may compute the system matrix A B C by using a subspace system identification method that reconstructs the dynamic system from the measured actuator sensor signals in the network patches. The procedures disclosed by Kim et al. Estimation of normal mode and other system parameters of composite laminated plates Composite Structures 2001 and by Kim et al. Structural dynamic system reconstruction method for vibrating structures Transaction of DSMC ASME 2003 which are incorporated herein in its entirety by reference thereto can be employed to establish the reconstructed dynamic system model using the multiple inputs and outputs of the present sensory network system.

A fundamental quantity for monitoring and diagnosis may be a symptom contained in sensor signals measured from a time variant system. The structural condition change or damage of a structure may essentially indicate the modification in wave transmission or dynamic characteristics of the structure system containing the network of a plurality of sensors and actuators a structure. The system matrix is observable and sensitive with respect to the structural condition change so that it can be considered as a symptom. The system matrix as a symptom can be applied one of suitable damage related dynamic characteristics properties for example which may be natural frequencies damping ratios and vibrational mode shapes to represent structural condition change as sensitive quantities for damage impact aging of a structure. Thus the structural condition index I on the diagnostic network paths can be described by a nonlinear function with the variable of the system matrix in the lifetime I . Examples of similar approach can be found in Damage identification using reconstructed residual frequency response functions Journal of Sound and Vibration 2003 by Kim and Bending rigidity and natural frequency of debonded honeycomb sandwich beams Composite Structures 2002 by Kim et al. and Natural frequency reduction model for matrix dominated fatigue damage in composite laminates Composite Structures 2003 by Moon et al. which are incorporated herein in its entirety by reference thereto.

To determine the near future structural condition in damage evolution domain the prognosis module may employ the current trend of the system matrix as the damage impact related temporal symptom of a host structure. If the temporal symptom shows sign of deterioration as exemplified by the change of damage impact related symptom increasing with time the prognostic module will predict the behavior of the hot spot regions with respect to the remaining life span of a structure and trigger an early warning. Consequently the future trend of the system matrix produced by the network dynamics of Lamb wave transmission on the structure makes it possible to forecast the structure damage impact conditions. To estimate the future system matrix the prognosis module preferably utilizes a training method of recurrent neural network RNN with the previous dynamic reconstruction models determined from the simulated sensor signals because of its highly nonlinear characteristics of the SCI vector I . In an alternative embodiment the feed forward neural network FFN can be used. The curves and may represent the evolution of the SCI vector I and the matrix respectively and span up to the time of structural death . Sensor signals may be measured to access the structural conditions at time .

By the use of the state space model of the future system matrix circumflex over the prognosis module may develop the prognostic sensor signals for the hot spot regions of the structure from the inputs of the same actuator signals. Now the identification and classification methods as explained in can apply to the prognostic sensor signals to compute the one step ahead SCI vector I 1 . Finally the prognosis module can display the prognostic tomography image and store it into a prognosis tomography database depository.

As mentioned the monitoring software may comprise interrogation processing classification and prognosis modules. These application modules may use eXtensible Markup Language XML to save their processed data and or images to a structured query language SQL based database and retrieve the reference and system data for device locations network paths and parameters of structural condition monitoring system. Each XML formatted document may be described by its data and tags created by the structural monitoring system. Also each module can parse the XML document to read data that may be input to other application modules. Tags in XML documents may consist of root element in the outmost node and child elements in the nested nodes and may have attributes that appear as name value pairs following the name of the tag.

The structural health monitoring software can also have Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or RPC Remote Procedure Call XML which are lightweight protocol for exchanging SCI data and images in a distributed structure computing system for structural condition monitoring. In the distributed server system all application modules can also be XML web services capable of communicating and remotely computing across network using the open standard SOAP or XML RPC with XML formatted documents of structural condition information for all marshaled structure systems. To provide the XML web services for structural health monitoring the application modules are abstracted as an entity by compiling them with Common Object Module COM and then wrapped by applying a SOAP wrapper such as SOAP Toolkit software from Microsoft. The application modules can use a low level Application Programming Interface API for direct control over the SOAP process for their COM objects.

While the present invention has been described with reference to the specific embodiments thereof it should be understood that the foregoing relates to preferred embodiments of the invention and that modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

