---

title: Composite insulation assembly for a fuel cell
abstract: In one aspect, there is disclosed a high temperature composite insulation assembly for a fuel cell that includes a core portion having inner and outer surfaces. A temperature stable sealant is disposed on the outer surface of the core portion forming a gas retaining mechanically robust insulation assembly. In another aspect, there is disclosed a high temperature composite insulation assembly for a fuel cell that includes a core portion having inner and outer surfaces, and a reinforcing material disposed on the outer surface of the core portion. A temperature stable sealant is disposed on the outer surface of the core portion forming a gas retaining mechanically robust insulation assembly. In another aspect, there is disclosed a high temperature composite insulation assembly for a fuel cell that includes a core portion having inner and outer surfaces and a high temperature refractory material disposed on the inner surface of the core portion. A reinforcing material is disposed on the outer surface of the core portion and a temperature stable sealant is disposed on the outer surface of a core portion forming a gas retaining mechanically robust insulation assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07960069&OS=07960069&RS=07960069
owner: Adaptive Materials, Inc.
number: 07960069
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070202
---
This invention was made with government support under contract number W31PHQ04CR164 awarded by the United States Department of Defense. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to fuel cells and more particularly to high temperature insulation assemblies for fuel cells.

Solid oxide fuel cells operate at elevated temperatures requiring the use of an insulation between the fuel cell components and an outside environment. Known insulating materials include refractory insulations and other fibrous and ceramic based insulation materials. However such insulations are typically mechanically weak and do not have sufficient structural rigidity for supporting other members. Additionally the insulating materials are not airtight and are permeable to gas.

There is therefore a need in the art for an insulation assembly that may be utilized in conjunction with a fuel cell that has an improved mechanical robustness capable of supporting other components. There is also a need in the art for an insulation for use with a fuel cell that has sufficient structural rigidity to provide shock resistance and mechanical dampening characteristics. There is further a need in the art for an insulation for a fuel cell that is gas impermeable for sealing gases within the fuel cell.

In one aspect there is disclosed a high temperature composite insulation assembly for a fuel cell that includes a core portion having inner and outer surfaces. A temperature stable sealant is disposed on the outer surface of the core portion forming a gas retaining mechanically robust insulation assembly.

In another aspect there is disclosed a high temperature composite insulation assembly for a fuel cell that includes a core portion having inner and outer surfaces and a reinforcing material disposed on the outer surface of the core portion. A temperature stable sealant is disposed on the outer surface of the core portion forming a gas retaining mechanically robust insulation assembly.

In another aspect there is disclosed a high temperature composite insulation assembly for a fuel cell that includes a core portion having inner and outer surfaces and a high temperature refractory material disposed on the inner surface of the core portion. A reinforcing material is disposed on the outer surface of the core portion and a temperature stable sealant is disposed on the outer surface of a core portion forming a gas retaining mechanically robust insulation assembly.

Referring to there is shown one embodiment of a composite insulation assembly . The composite insulation assembly includes a core portion having inner and outer surfaces . A temperature stable sealant is disposed on the outer surface of the core portion forming a gas retaining mechanically robust insulation assembly. In one aspect the high temperature composite insulation assembly may include a reinforcing material disposed on the outer surface of the core portion and is covered with the temperature stable sealant described above. The reinforcing material may be formed of suitable materials including fiberglass fibrous materials as well as other strengthening materials that are stable at a temperature of from 30 to 200 degrees Celsius. In one aspect fiberglass materials in the form of a sheet may be wrapped around the outer surface of the core portion to which the temperature stable sealant is applied.

The core portion may be formed of a high temperature resistant material. The high temperature resistant material may include rigid microporous materials as well as other known materials suitable for insulating high temperature applications. Such microporous materials include air contained in minute cells between chains of amorphous silica agglomerates of particles from 5 to 25 nm which is many thousand times smaller in diameter than a human hair. In one aspect the core portion may be formed from a piece of rigid insulation such as Microtherm HT a product of Microtherm N.V. a Belgian corporation. Additionally other insulating materials that may be used include Excelfrax made by Unifrax Microsil made by Zircar Mini IC made by Thermal Ceramics and Flixipor made by Culimeta. While the above list of materials provides examples of various materials that may be used for the core portion it is to be understood that various other high temperature resistant materials may be used. The core portion may be machined or otherwise formed into a desired shape to house the various components of a fuel cell.

The temperature stable sealant disposed on the outer surface of the core portion may be selected from various materials including polymeric materials elastomers silicone elastomers glass sealants geopolymers and cementitious ceramic sealants. The temperature stable sealant should provide substantial gas retaining characteristics when cured and have suitable temperature resistance and capability as described above. In one aspect the temperature stable sealant may be formed of a silicone rubber adhesive sealant such as RTV116 adhesive sealant a product of GE Silicones of Waterford N.Y. The temperature stable sealant may be applied using any suitable method such as spraying or coating cold setting or firing or curing depending on the type of temperature stable sealant being utilized.

The high temperature composite insulation assembly may also include a high temperature refractory material disposed on the inner surface of the core portion . The high temperature refractory material may be selected from various materials including alumina cement alumina silica cement sol gel binders and thermochemically compatible materials formed of alumina silica and zirconia. The high temperature refractory material disposed on the inner surface of the core portion may be utilized for hard facing dust isolation and to decrease the gas permeability of the core portion . Additionally the high temperature refractory material may be utilized to fix various components of the fuel cell within the inside of the composite insulation assembly .

The high temperature composite insulation assembly may also include shock absorbing members attached to the outside of the temperature stable sealant . Additionally vibration dampening members may also be attached to the outside of the temperature stable sealant . As shown in the shock absorbing and vibration dampening members may be elastomeric tubular sections that are fixed to the temperature stable sealant and provide a barrier between a rigid or structural component not shown that may house a fuel cell and provide an outer protective barrier for the fuel cell.

Referring to there are shown various embodiments of the core portion that includes a cylindrical body having a top section center section and a bottom section that may be joined together. While three sections are shown in the depicted embodiment it should be realized that various numbers of sections including a two piece section or other numbers of sections may be utilized. As shown in the depicted embodiment the top section may include holes formed therein that receive fuel cell tubes. As shown in the depicted embodiment the top section may be attached to the fuel cell tubes as well as to an inlet manifold . The inlet manifold may be utilized to support various inputs and outputs of the fuel cell including air input lines as well as fuel input lines and electrical feeds. The bottom section of the core portion shown in may include a cavity formed therein that may be used for attaching a recuperator. Additionally holes may be formed in the bottom section to allow for passage of a cathode air inlet into the recuperator and an exhaust air output from the recuperator.

Utilizing a multi piece core portion allows for the assembly of several of the fuel cell components within the composite insulation assembly prior to joining of the various components of the core portion thereby simplifying the manufacture of a fuel cell. In one aspect the fuel cell tubes and the inlet manifold may be attached to the top section of the core portion while a recuperator is disposed within the cavity formed in the bottom section . The recuperator may be coated with a refractory material described above with respect to the inner surface of the core portion . Next the multiple pieces of the core portion may be assembled together and wrapped with a fiberglass reinforcing material followed by a coating or application of the temperature stable sealant on the outside surface of the core portion providing a gas tight mechanically robust insulation assembly. The shock absorbing and vibration dampening members may be applied on top of the temperature stable sealant such that they are affixed to the high temperature composite insulation assembly to provide shock isolation between the composite insulation and a fuel cell package.

As can be seen in various annular forms including annular projections and corresponding annular notches formed in the core portion may be utilized to join the various sections of the core portion when assembled. For example in the bottom section of the core portion may include an annular projection that is received in a corresponding annular slot formed in the center section . Alternatively the annular projection and slot may be reversed as shown in .

The invention has been described in an illustrative manner. It is to be understood that the terminology which has been used is intended to be in the nature of words of description rather than limitation. Many modifications and variations of the invention are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described.

