---

title: Power steering system, speed reduction mechanism and bearing holder
abstract: A power steering system includes a wormshaft housed in a shaft housing portion and rotatably supported at one end by a bearing, a worm wheel adapted to mesh with the wormshaft, a bottomed, cylindrical bearing holder configured to enclose and fit onto the bearing for holding the bearing, and a preloading means located in the bearing holder for preloading the bearing in a direction of meshed-engagement of the worm gear. An adjustment-mechanism housing portion is formed at one end of the shaft housing portion for housing and retaining the bearing holder. A restriction wall is formed in the adjustment-mechanism housing portion for restricting a movement of the bearing holder. The preloading means includes a preload portion formed integral with the bearing holder, for forcing the bearing in the direction of meshed-engagement by a force of resiliency of the preload portion, thus ensuring sufficient accuracy of meshed-engagement without complicated machining.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08066093&OS=08066093&RS=08066093
owner: Hitachi, Ltd.
number: 08066093
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070712
---
The present invention relates to an electric power steering system for an automotive vehicle and specifically to an electric power steering system configured to be able to adjust a backlash between meshing gears installed in a speed reduction mechanism mainly constructed by a worm gear which gear can be applied to the power steering system.

For instance an electric power steering system which employs a speed reduction mechanism comprised of a worm wheel provided on the outer periphery of a steering shaft and a wormshaft which is in meshed engagement with the worm wheel and whose one axial end is connected to an electric motor is well known as a typical power steering system. The electric power steering system is configured to assist a steering force by a driving force produced by the electric motor and transmitted through the speed reduction mechanism in response to a measure of torque in the steering shaft.

In such an electric power assisted steering system in the presence of a large backlash between the toothed portion of the worm wheel and the toothed portion of the wormshaft meshing each other there exists a problem with hammering noise generated between the worm wheel and the wormshaft meshing each other due to vibrations transmitted through road wheels. To avoid this problem the following patent document 1 has proposed and disclosed a power steering system capable of adjusting a backlash of a speed reduction mechanism.

This type of power steering system includes a bearing fitted onto the outer periphery of the other axial end of the wormshaft which wormshaft is housed in a shaft housing portion defined in a housing in such a manner as to penetrate the inside of the housing for rotatably supporting the other axial end of the wormshaft a preloading member adapted to force the wormshaft in the direction of the one axial end of the wormshaft that is toward the electric motor side through the bearing an adjusting screw threadably engaged with the opening end of the shaft housing portion to which the other axial end of the wormshaft faces such that the adjusting screw forces the preloading member toward the bearing for adjusting the magnitude of a preload of the preloading member by turning the adjusting screw and a resilient biasing means installed on the outer circumference of the bearing and adapted to act on the bearing to force the other axial end of the wormshaft in the direction perpendicular to the axis of the wormshaft through the bearing so as to bias the other end of the wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with the worm wheel. The previously noted biasing means is comprised of an ring which is fitted and retained in an annular groove cut or formed in the inner peripheral surface of the opening end of the shaft housing portion. The O ring is laid out to face the outer peripheral surface of the bearing. The center of the annular groove when viewed in the radial direction is slightly offset from the center of the shaft housing portion when viewed in the radial direction toward the worm wheel side thus enabling the other axial end of the wormshaft to be biased toward the worm wheel side through the bearing by virtue of an elastic force of the O ring.

With the previously noted arrangement the magnitude of a preload of the preloading member can be adjusted by forward backward rotary motion of the adjusting screw. Additionally the elastic force of the O ring can be adjusted by selection of the cross sectional dimension of the O ring and the eccentricity of the center of the groove when viewed in the radial direction with respect to the center of the shaft housing portion when viewed in the radial direction and whereby the desired amount of biased displacement of the wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with the worm wheel can be adjusted. In this manner it is possible to realize an appropriate backlash between the toothed portion of the worm wheel and the toothed portion of the wormshaft meshing each other. Patent document 1 JP2002 518242TT see FIG. 1 thereof 

In the typical power steering system as discussed previously the biasing means was constructed by fitting and retaining the O ring in the groove cut or formed in the inner peripheral surface of the opening end of the shaft housing portion. The groove is cut or formed in only the predetermined axial position of the inner peripheral surface of the shaft housing portion. Additionally the groove must be formed or arranged in such a manner as to be eccentric to the shaft housing portion. Therefore the system has difficulty in ensuring the sufficient machining accuracy. The complicated machining of the eccentric groove leads to the problem of reduced productivity thus resulting in higher manufacturing costs.

As set forth above the system has difficulty in ensuring a sufficient machining accuracy of the groove thus resulting in individual differences of elastic forces produced by O rings installed in place. As a result it is difficult to create a desired elastic force. This leads to the technical problem of the difficulty of achieving high precision meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the worm wheel and the toothed portion of the wormshaft.

It is therefore in view of the previously described technical disadvantages of the prior art an object of the invention to provide a power steering system configured to be able to ensure a sufficient accuracy of meshed engagement between a toothed portion of a worm wheel and a toothed portion of a wormshaft without requiring any complicated machining to be made to the inner periphery of a housing.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that a power steering system comprises a worm wheel linked to a steering shaft a wormshaft housed in a housing and adapted to mesh with the worm wheel a bearing adapted to rotatably support one end of the wormshaft a bearing holder having a substantially cylindrical holding portion formed to enclose and fit onto the bearing for holding the bearing and a preloading means located in the bearing holder for preloading the bearing in a direction that the wormshaft and the worm wheel are brought into meshed engagement with each other wherein a shaft housing portion is defined in the housing for housing the wormshaft inside of the housing a holder housing portion is provided at one axial end of the shaft housing portion for housing the bearing holder and the holder housing portion has a restriction wall arranged coaxially with the shaft housing portion for restricting a movement of the bearing holder at least in an opposite direction which is opposite to the direction that the wormshaft and the worm wheel are brought into meshed engagement with each other and in a direction perpendicular to the opposite direction.

According to the above mentioned invention the bearing holder is configured to be retained by a wall surface of the restriction wall of the holder housing portion which restriction wall is arranged coaxially with the shaft housing portion. Therefore it is possible to simultaneously machine the restriction wall together with the shaft housing portion by drilling. Accordingly both the shaft housing portion and the restriction wall can be rapidly easily machined thus ensuring reduced machining time and costs.

Furthermore by virtue of the previously noted simultaneous machining it is possible to enhance the machining accuracy of the restriction wall of the holder housing portion relative to the shaft housing portion thus ensuring a high precision relative position relationship between the bearing holder and the bearing and consequently enabling an effective preloading action by the preloading means of the bearing holder. This also enhances the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the wormshaft and the toothed portion of the worm wheel.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the preloading means comprises a preload portion formed integral with the holding portion of the bearing holder to permit elastic deformation of the preload portion for forcing the bearing in the direction that the wormshaft and the worm wheel are brought into meshed engagement with each other by a force of resiliency of the preload portion.

According to the above mentioned invention the holding portion provided to hold the bearing and the preload portion provided to preload the bearing are integrally formed each other and whereby it is possible to enhance the accuracy of relative position between the preload portion and the bearing. This enables permanent application of an appropriate preload acting on the wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with the worm wheel. As a result of this it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the wormshaft and the toothed portion of the worm wheel.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the bearing holder is formed of a synthetic resin.

According to the above mentioned invention as a matter of course it is possible to easily form the bearing holder. In particular even when an excessively large input load transmitted from the worm wheel side acts on the wormshaft it is possible to prevent impact noise caused by abutment of the preload portion which is brought into abutted engagement with the restriction wall or the holding portion due to the input load.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the system further comprises a preload member adapted to be kept in resilient contact with an outer surface of the preload portion for assisting a preload of the preload portion.

According to the above mentioned invention it is possible to increase the preload of the preload portion thus suppressing the force of resiliency of the preload portion from deteriorating due to repeated elastic deformations of the preload portion. This enhances the durability of the preload portion thus insuring a more stable preload acting on the wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement. By the addition of the preload member it is possible to preload the wormshaft by means of two preloading means having spring stiffnesses differing from each other thus enhancing the degree of freedom of adjustment of the preload. Accordingly it is possible to set the preload to a more appropriate magnitude.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the bearing holder is formed into a substantially cylindrical shape by both the holding portion and the preload portion and the preload member comprises an O ring fitted to an outer circumference of the bearing holder.

According to the above mentioned invention the O ring is simply fitted to the outer circumference of the bearing holder. Thus it is possible to easily add the preload member without additional machining to be made to the holder housing portion in other words without causing the increased machining man hour of the holder housing portion.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the aforementioned preload member is configured to apply a preload to the preload portion by a radial shrinking action of the O ring.

According to the above mentioned invention it is possible to suppress a change of the resiliency of the O ring deteriorated with age to a minimum.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the O ring is fitted and retained in grooves cut and formed in respective outer circumferences of the holding portion and the preload portion.

According to the above mentioned invention it is possible to lay out the preload member without upsizing the radial dimension of the bearing holder. This eliminates the necessity of extra machining to be made to the inner periphery of the holder housing portion. In other words it is possible to add the preload member without causing the increased machining man hour of the holder housing portion. Additionally in the case of the above mentioned installing structure it is possible to certainly retain the O ring on the bearing holder and therefore there is no risk that the O ring falls away from the bearing holder.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the bearing holder has a bottom wall and a peripheral wall formed to extend upward from a circumference of the bottom wall for retaining an outer peripheral surface of the bearing and the preload portion is supported by the bottom wall of the holding portion via a pair of slits which slits are radially cut out and formed to range from the peripheral wall of the bearing holder to a predetermined position of the bottom wall.

According to the above mentioned invention it is possible to freely set a radial displacement of the preload portion by varying only the depth of cut of each of the slits. Additionally it is possible to adjust the stiffness of the preload portion relative to the holding portion that is the preload created by the preload portion by varying only the interval between the slits. This contributes to the increased design flexibility of the bearing holder.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the pair of slits are formed such that a circumferential width of the preload portion gradually enlarges radially outward from a basal end portion of the preload portion formed integral with the bottom wall of the holding portion.

According to the above mentioned invention the interval of the slits at the basal end side of the preload portion is set to a small value and the interval of the slits at the free end side of the preload portion that is the interval of the slits at the outermost end side of the preload portion is set to a large value. Thus it is possible to enlarge the area of the peripheral wall of the preload portion while ensuring an appropriate preload created by the preload portion. By virtue of the enlarged area it is possible to reduce a bearing pressure or a bearing stress acting on the peripheral wall of the preload portion and arising from an excessive input load transmitted from the worm wheel to the wormshaft. Therefore even when the peripheral wall of the preload portion is jammed between the bearing and the restriction wall with the input load there is no risk of causing any damage to the peripheral wall of the preload portion. Furthermore it is possible to enhance the peripheral wall s ability to hold the bearing by enlarging the area of the preload portion thus enabling the bearing to be certainly held at the central side of the bearing holder. As a result of this it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the wormshaft and the toothed portion of the worm wheel.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that a stiffness of a basal end portion of a bottom of the preload portion is set to be less than a stiffness of an outermost end portion of the bottom of the preload portion.

According to the above mentioned invention it is possible to ensure an appropriate total stiffness of the preload portion while ensuring an appropriate resiliency of the preload portion by lowering only the stiffness of the basal end portion of the bottom of the preload portion.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the preload portion has a plurality of spring stiffness characteristic values for a load deflection characteristic with regard to an input load.

According to the above mentioned invention even at a normal steering mode during flat road driving or even in the presence of action of an excessively large input load from the road surface to the steering system it is possible to provide the deflection characteristic of the preload portion suited for each of the steering situations. Thus it is possible to constantly apply an appropriate preload to the wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with the worm wheel. As a result it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the wormshaft and the toothed portion of the worm wheel.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that a speed reduction mechanism comprises a first gear housed in a housing and rotated by an actuator a second gear adapted to mesh with the first gear a bearing adapted to rotatably support at least one end of the first gear a bearing holder having a substantially cylindrical holding portion formed to enclose and fit onto the bearing for holding the bearing a preloading means located in the bearing holder for preloading the bearing in a direction that the first gear and the second gear are brought into meshed engagement with each other wherein a first gear housing portion is defined in the housing for housing the first gear inside of the housing a holder housing portion is provided at one axial end of the first gear housing portion for housing the bearing holder and the holder housing portion has a restriction wall arranged coaxially with the first gear housing portion for restricting a movement of the bearing holder at least in an opposite direction which is opposite to the direction that the first gear and the second gear are brought into meshed engagement with each other and in a direction perpendicular to the opposite direction.

According to the above mentioned invention the bearing holder is configured to be retained by a wall surface of the restriction wall of the holder housing portion which restriction wall is arranged coaxially with the first gear housing portion. Therefore it is possible to simultaneously machine the restriction wall together with the first gear housing portion by drilling. Accordingly both the first gear housing portion and the restriction wall can be rapidly easily machined thus ensuring reduced machining time and costs.

Furthermore by virtue of the previously noted simultaneous machining it is possible to enhance the machining accuracy of the restriction wall of the holder housing portion relative to the first gear housing portion thus ensuring a high precision relative position relationship between the bearing holder and the bearing and consequently enabling an effective preloading action by the preloading means of the bearing holder. This also enhances the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the first gear and the toothed portion of the second gear.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the bearing holder has a restriction portion provided to restrict an axial movement of the first gear toward the one end of the first gear through the bearing.

According to the above mentioned invention when installing the bearing holder in the housing it is possible to easily assemble the bearing holder in the holder housing portion in a predetermined axial position by a restricting action of the restriction portion by only the insertion of the bearing holder from the one end of the first gear into the first gear holding portion and only the pushing action of the bearing holder through the bearing installed on the first gear. This contributes to the enhanced assembling efficiency of the speed reduction mechanism.

The invention as set froth in claim is characterized in that the first gear comprises a wormshaft whereas the second gear comprises a worm wheel and the worm wheel is formed of a synthetic resin.

According to the above mentioned invention the worm wheel which is the second gear is formed of a synthetic resin thus ensuring smooth meshed engagement of a worm gear constructed by the first gear and the second gear and thereby reduces meshing noise.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that a preload member is further installed on the bearing holder for assisting a preload of the preload means.

According to the above mentioned invention by the addition of the preload member it is possible to increase the preload of the preload means. Additionally it is possible to preload the wormshaft by means of two preloading means having spring stiffnesses differing from each other thus enhancing the degree of freedom of adjustment of the preload. Hence it is possible to set the preload to a more appropriate magnitude. Accordingly it is possible to constantly apply an appropriate preload to the wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with the worm wheel. As a result it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the wormshaft and the toothed portion of the worm wheel.

The invention as set forth in claim is characterized in that the preload member comprises an O ring fitted to an outer circumference of the bearing holder. According to the above mentioned invention the O ring is simply fitted to the outer circumference of the bearing holder. Thus it is possible to easily add the preload member without additional machining to be made to the holder housing portion in other words without causing the increased machining man hour of the holder housing portion.

The invention is characterized in that a bearing holder for holding a bearing installed on one end of a wormshaft adapted to mesh with a worm wheel comprises a substantially cylindrical holding portion formed to enclose and fit onto the bearing and housed and retained in a holder housing portion which is arranged coaxially with a shaft housing portion defined in the housing for housing the wormshaft a guide portion provided in an inner circumference of the holding portion for permitting a movement of the bearing in a direction that the wormshaft and the worm wheel are brought into meshed engagement with each other and for restricting a movement of the bearing in a direction perpendicular to the direction of meshed engagement and a preloading means provided for preloading the bearing in the direction that the wormshaft and the worm wheel are brought into meshed engagement with each other.

According to the above mentioned invention the bearing holder is formed coaxially with the shaft housing portion. Additionally the bearing holder is configured to be retained by a wall surface of the restriction wall of the holder housing portion which restriction wall has a substantially same curvature as the holding portion of the bearing holder. Therefore it is possible to simultaneously machine the restriction wall together with the shaft housing portion by drilling.

Accordingly both the restriction wall and the shaft housing portion can be rapidly easily machined thus ensuring reduced machining time and costs. Furthermore by virtue of the previously noted simultaneous machining it is possible to enhance the machining accuracy of the restriction wall of the holder housing portion relative to the shaft housing portion thus ensuring a high precision relative position relationship between the bearing holder and the bearing and consequently enhancing the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the wormshaft and the toothed portion of the worm wheel.

The invention is characterized in that the preloading means comprises a preload portion formed integral with the holding portion to permit elastic deformation of the preload portion for forcing the bearing in the direction that the wormshaft and the worm wheel are brought into meshed engagement with each other by a force of resiliency of the preload portion. According to the above mentioned invention the holding portion provided to hold the bearing and the preload portion provided to preload the bearing are integrally formed each other and whereby it is possible to enhance the accuracy of relative position between the preload portion and the bearing. This enables permanent application of an appropriate preload acting on the wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with the worm wheel. As a result of this it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the wormshaft and the toothed portion of the worm wheel.

The invention is characterized in that the bearing holder has a bottom wall and a peripheral wall formed to extend upward from a circumference of the bottom wall for retaining an outer peripheral surface of the bearing and the preload portion is supported by the bottom wall of the holding portion via a pair of slits which slits are radially cut out and formed to range from the peripheral wall of the bearing holder to a predetermined position of the bottom wall.

According to the above mentioned invention it is possible to freely set a radial displacement of the preload portion by varying only the depth of cut of each of the slits. Additionally it is possible to adjust the stiffness of the preload portion relative to the holding portion that is the preload created by the preload portion by varying only the interval between the slits. This contributes to the increased design flexibility of the bearing holder.

The invention is characterized in that the pair of slits are formed such that a circumferential width of the preload portion gradually enlarges radially outward from a basal end portion of the preload portion formed integral with the bottom wall of the holding portion.

According to the above mentioned invention the interval of the slits at the basal end side of the preload portion is set to a small value and the interval of the slits at the free end side of the preload portion that is the interval of the slits at the outermost end side of the preload portion is set to a large value. Thus it is possible to enlarge the area of the peripheral wall of the preload portion while ensuring an appropriate preload created by the preload portion. By virtue of the enlarged area it is possible to reduce a bearing pressure or a bearing stress acting on the peripheral wall of the preload portion and arising from an excessive input load transmitted from the worm wheel to the wormshaft. Therefore even when the peripheral wall of the preload portion is jammed between the bearing and the inner wall of the holder housing portion with the input load there is no risk of causing any damage to the peripheral wall of the preload portion. Furthermore it is possible to enhance the peripheral wall s ability to hold the bearing by enlarging the area of the preload portion thus enabling the bearing to be certainly held at the central side of the bearing holder. As a result of this it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between the toothed portion of the wormshaft and the toothed portion of the worm wheel.

The details of the power steering systems and their configurations of the respective embodiments are hereinafter described in reference to the drawings. Referring to the drawings the power steering system of each of the embodiments is exemplified in a rack and pinion power steering device of an automotive vehicle.

As is generally known when steering wheel is turned input shaft rotates synchronously with rotary motion of steering shaft and thus the torsion bar is twisted. Output shaft begins to rotate following rotary motion of input shaft by an elastic force of the torsion bar. Then rotary motion of output shaft is converted into linear motion of rack shaft by the rack and pinion structure. Rack shaft moves leftward or rightward and thus the knuckles are pulled leftward or rightward by tie rods . In this manner the road wheels WL WR are steered.

The previously noted power steering system is also provided with a housing arranged around a portion that input shaft and output shaft are joined to each other a torque sensor housed in housing for detecting a steering torque based on a displacement of relative rotation of output shaft to input shaft an electric motor adapted to apply an assistance torque based on a detection result of torque sensor and a speed reduction mechanism configured to transmit a driving force produced by electric motor to output shaft . Thus the steering force can be assisted by application of the assistance torque determined based on the steering torque in input shaft to output shaft .

As shown in the previously noted housing has a recessed groove formed in its upper end face. A control circuit which is configured to control the driving state of electric motor is housed in the recessed groove. The opening end of the housing is closed by a side housing .

The previously noted speed reduction mechanism is linked to the lower end viewing of a driving shaft of electric motor . The speed reduction mechanism is mainly constructed by a wormshaft having a toothed portion a worm formed over a given length in the axial direction of the wormshaft and a worm wheel which worm wheel is fixedly connected onto the outer periphery of output shaft and having a toothed portion formed on its outer periphery and kept in meshed engagement with the toothed portion of wormshaft .

The previously noted housing has a shaft housing portion formed therein and arranged coaxially with the driving shaft of electric motor for housing wormshaft in such a manner as to penetrate the inside of the housing and a gear housing portion formed in the housing for housing worm wheel such that a given circumferential section of worm wheel faces toward shaft housing portion .

The lower end viewing of wormshaft is rotatably supported by means of a first bearing which is housed in the opening of the lower end of shaft housing portion . On the other hand the upper end of the wormshaft is rotatably supported by means of a second bearing which is housed in the opening of the upper end of shaft housing portion .

As shown in the lower end of wormshaft is formed with a radially outward protruding stepped restriction portion for restricting an axially inward movement an upper movement of first bearing . The lower end of the wormshaft is also formed with an annular groove cut or formed in its outer circumference and spaced apart from restriction portion axially outward by a specified distance. A snap ring is fitted into annular groove for restricting a downward movement of the first bearing. First bearing is retained at the lower end of wormshaft in a state where the first bearing is sandwiched between restriction portion and snap ring .

The axially outside sidewall of two opposing sidewalls constructing annular groove is formed as a tapered sidewall which is tapered and widened radially outward. First bearing is retained in a state where the first bearing is pushed against restriction portion by snap ring fitted into annular groove . As shown in the lower end opening of shaft housing portion is formed with a stepped adjustment mechanism housing portion a holder housing portion in the system of the invention which extends downward from shaft housing portion and whose bore is enlarged as compared to the shaft housing portion. The lower end of wormshaft faces to the adjustment mechanism housing portion. A backlash adjustment mechanism is housed in adjustment mechanism housing portion for adjusting a backlash between the toothed portion of wormshaft and the toothed portion of worm wheel via first bearing . This backlash change may occur due to individual differences of machining accuracies of tooth flanks of the toothed portions and tooth flank wears.

The previously noted adjustment mechanism housing portion is arranged coaxially with shaft housing portion and formed integral with the peripheral wall of shaft housing portion . The adjustment mechanism housing portion is defined by a restriction wall having an inner peripheral surface having a substantially circular shape in lateral cross section and having a slightly larger curvature than that of a holding portion of a bearing holder described later .

Backlash adjustment mechanism is comprised of bearing holder which is loosely fitted into restriction wall of adjustment mechanism housing portion and configured to enclose and fit onto first bearing for holding the bearing such that the bearing holder is fitted from the lower end of the first bearing an O ring serving as a preload member and fitted to the outer circumference of bearing holder and a plug member provided for closing the opening end of adjustment mechanism housing portion and for restricting an axial movement of bearing holder .

As shown in the previously noted bearing holder is formed of a synthetic resin. The bearing holder is formed into a bottomed substantially cylindrical shape having an inside diameter r dimensioned to be greater than an outside diameter R of first bearing . The bearing holder has a pair of slits which slits are cut out and formed parallel to each other to range from the peripheral wall of the bearing holder to a predetermined position of the bottom wall. That is bearing holder has holding portion formed to enclose and hold first bearing and a preload portion supported by the bottom wall of holding portion via the pair of slits .

As shown in the previously noted holding portion has a first annular groove which is circumferentially continuously formed in the outer peripheral surface of the upper end of the peripheral wall of the holding portion and into which O ring is fitted. Additionally holding portion is formed in a predetermined circumferential position of its upper end face with an axially inward upward protruding engaged protrusion portion . On the other hand the holding portion is formed on its outer bottom surface with a plurality of axially outward downward protruding protrusions . Furthermore as shown in holding portion is formed on its inner peripheral surface with two opposing flat guides which are arranged parallel to each other and spaced apart from each other by a radial distance W identical to or slightly less than the outside diameter R of first bearing . The groove depth of first annular groove is set and dimensioned to be substantially identical to the cross sectional dimension of O ring .

As shown in the previously noted preload portion has a spring portion provided to be elastically deformable upward and downward utilizing a basal end portion formed integral with the bottom wall of holding portion as a fulcrum and a pushing portion extending upward from spring portion almost perpendicularly to the spring portion for preloading or pushing first bearing against the inner opposed surface. The previously noted spring portion is formed into a tapered shape that its thickness gradually increases radially outward from the basal end portion . As a whole the spring portion is formed as a thin walled section as compared to the bottom wall of holding portion . Spring portion is also configured to be slightly up sloped radially outward from the basal end portion under an unloaded condition such that the inside diameter r of the inside edged portion of pushing portion is dimensioned to be less than the outside diameter R of first bearing

The previously noted pushing portion has a thickness substantially identical to the peripheral wall of holding portion . The pushing portion has a second annular groove which is formed in the outer circumference of the upper end of the pushing portion and into which at least part of O ring in the circumferential direction is fitted. Second annular groove is connected with first annular groove through slits such that the second annular groove together with first annular groove is configured to form a series of annular grooves. Additionally second annular groove is formed so that the groove depth d of the second annular groove is dimensioned to be shallower than the groove depth d of first annular groove and that the groove width w of the second annular groove is dimensioned to be greater than the groove width w of first annular groove .

As shown in adjustment mechanism housing portion of shaft housing portion is also formed in its upper wall surface with an engage groove which is cut out in a given position conformable to the engaged protrusion portion of holding portion for restricting the displacement of bearing holder in the direction of rotation of the bearing holder.

As shown in O ring is set or designed so that its inside diameter R is dimensioned to be less than the inside diameter r of second annular groove of preload portion . When the O ring is retained and fitted onto the outer circumference of bearing holder through first and second annular grooves and by virtue of a shrinking action of the O ring as indicated by the arrows P in the drawings the O ring acts on preload portion such that the preload portion is pulled inward thereby assisting the force of resiliency of the preload portion itself. The inside diameter r of the inner edged portion of pushing portion under the installed condition of the O ring is dimensioned to be slightly shrunk in comparison with the inside diameter r of the inner edged portion of pushing portion under the uninstalled condition of O ring .

As shown in plug member is formed into a hermetically covered cylindrical shape. The plug member is press fitted into the opening end of adjustment mechanism housing portion such that the upper wall surface of the plug member is forced into contact with each of protrusions of bearing holder .

As shown in when assembling or installing bearing holder on the housing of power steering system first of all first bearing is installed on the lower end of wormshaft . Thereafter snap ring is fitted into annular groove and put in place such that the tapered sidewall surface of the annular groove and the tapered sidewall surface of the snap ring are fitted to each other. In this manner first bearing is retained and installed on the lower end of wormshaft . This wormshaft is inserted into shaft housing portion from the lower opening end and installed in such a manner as to be brought into meshed engagement with worm wheel . Thereafter second bearing is installed on the upper end of wormshaft . Bearing holder is inserted into adjustment mechanism housing portion in such a manner to enclose and fit onto first bearing from the lower opening end and whereby engaged protrusion portion is fitted into engage groove . After this plug member is press fitted into adjustment mechanism housing portion such that the plug member is retained and installed in the adjustment mechanism housing portion in a state where the upper wall surface of plug member is forced into contact with the top face of each of protrusions of bearing holder . In this manner assembling of the bearing holder is completed.

As shown in the inside diameter r of holding portion of bearing holder is dimensioned to be greater than the outside diameter R of first bearing and the inside diameter r of the inner edged portion of pushing portion under the inwardly preloaded condition is dimensioned to be less than the outside diameter R of first bearing . Therefore after bearing holder has been installed in a manner so as to enclose and fit onto first bearing as described previously a push force or a pressure see the arrow F from first bearing which pressure is created due to the dimensional difference between the outside diameter R of first bearing and the inside diameter r of the inner edged portion of pushing portion acts on preload portion so that preload portion is forced radially outward by first bearing . Thus the force of resiliency of preload portion itself is produced and simultaneously the shrinkage force is produced as a result of enlarged deformation of O ring in diameter. By virtue of these forces first bearing is automatically preloaded or forced toward worm wheel through pushing portion .

That is when preload portion is forced radially outward downward elastic deformation of spring portion occurs following the radially outward movement of pushing portion . Additionally elastic deformation of O ring occurs such that the diameter of the O ring enlarges. The preload see the arrow f corresponding to the resultant force of the force see the arrow f of resiliency of spring portion and the shrinkage force see the arrow f of O ring acts on first bearing through pushing portion and then transmitted via first bearing to the lower end of wormshaft . Additionally the preload see the arrow f inputted from pushing portion to first bearing acts on first bearing in a rotational direction that the bearing is rotated about basal end portion of spring portion serving as a fulcrum that is as a force acting in an obliquely upward direction with respect to first bearing . Hence the lower end of wormshaft is forced into meshed engagement with worm wheel .

Therefore even when a change in the backlash between toothed portions and occurs due to tooth flank wears of the toothed portion of wormshaft and the toothed portion of the mating worm wheel the backlash between toothed portions and can be always maintained at zero backlash since the lower end of wormshaft is permanently forced into meshed engagement with worm wheel .

Bearing holder which provides the above mentioned backlash free effect is arranged coaxially with shaft housing portion . The bearing holder is configured to be held by the previously discussed restriction wall having the inner peripheral surface of a slightly larger curvature than the curvature of the outer peripheral surface of holding portion . Therefore in the case of the present embodiment it is possible to simultaneously machine restriction wall together with shaft housing portion by drilling from the bottom of housing viewing . Accordingly both the restriction wall and the shaft housing portion can be rapidly easily machined thus ensuring reduced machining time and thus it is possible to suppress manufacturing costs of the system from being increased due to the introduction of backlash adjustment mechanism .

Furthermore by simultaneously machining both restriction wall and shaft housing portion it is possible to enhance machining accuracies of the wall surface and the radial position of restriction wall relative to shaft housing portion . Hence it is possible to ensure and enhance the accuracy of relative position between bearing holder and first bearing . As a result of this an effective preloading action of preload portion can be ensured and thus the accuracy of meshed engagement between toothed portion of wormshaft and toothed portion of worm wheel can be more certainly enhanced. As shown in bearing holder has a clearance space c formed or defined between the inner peripheral surface of holding portion and the outer peripheral surface of first bearing which clearance space corresponds to the difference between the outside diameter R of first bearing and the inside diameter r of holding portion . Thus it is possible to adjust the previously noted backlash within a limited range corresponding to the clearance space c. Moreover preload portion is preformed to be deflected or tilted radially inward. Additionally the preload portion is elastically deformed inward by the shrinkage force of O ring and thus a clearance space c is formed or defined between the outer peripheral surface of the upper end of pushing portion and the wall surface of restriction wall . A clearance space c is also formed or defined between the upper end face of pushing portion and the inner bottom face of the stepped portion of adjustment mechanism housing portion such that elastic deformation of preload portion can be permitted in a rotational direction that the preload portion is rotated about basal end portion of spring portion within a range limited by at least the clearance space c and the clearance space c.

For the reasons discussed above as shown in even when an expanded deformation of toothed portion of worm wheel occurs due to a temperature rise in speed reduction mechanism or even when a push force or a pressure see the arrow F that worm wheel forces wormshaft radially outward by a meshing force between toothed portion of wormshaft and toothed portion of worm wheel is generated the system of the embodiment enables or permits a radially outward deflection of preload portion to such a rotation angle that almost all of the outer peripheral surface of pushing portion is brought into abutment with the wall surface of restriction wall and thus clearance space c becomes zero. Additionally it is possible to always maintain the backlash between toothed portions and at zero backlash by the preload. Furthermore bearing holder is formed of a synthetic resin and thus it is possible to reduce impact noise generated when the outer peripheral surface of pushing portion is brought into abutment with the wall surface of restriction wall by the push force see the arrow F . As shown in the groove depth d of second annular groove is dimensioned to be less than the groove depth d of first annular groove that is the cross sectional dimension of O ring . The difference between these groove depths is set to be slightly less than the clearance space c. In the presence of downward elastic deformation of preload portion as seen in with elastic deformation of O ring that the diameter of the O ring enlarges the cross section of the O ring near second annular groove is deformed into an elliptical shape and thus the radial cross sectional dimension of the O ring tends to reduce. Therefore the previously discussed groove depth difference is also set to be slightly less than the groove depth d of second annular groove .

As a result of this when preload portion deflects upward or downward with elastic deformation of the preload portion itself O ring is kept in a non contact state where the C ring is out of contact with restriction wall . Thus there is no slip between the outer peripheral surface of the O ring and the wall surface of restriction wall even in the presence of enlarged deformation or shrunk deformation of O ring . Therefore it is possible to prevent a hysteresis loss from occurring during elastic deformation of O ring .

Furthermore as shown in the preload portion formed integral with bearing holder can be elastically deformed in a rotational direction that the preload portion is rotated about basal end portion of spring portion serving as a fulcrum but the groove width w of second annular groove is dimensioned to be greater than the groove width w of first annular groove . Therefore it is possible to ensure a necessary space required for a displacement of O ring within second annular groove due to preload portion deflected in the rotational direction. Accordingly during elastic deformation of preload portion it is possible to suppress shearing of O ring thus preventing a deterioration in O ring .

Regarding backlash adjustment between wormshaft and worm wheel by means of backlash adjustment mechanism as previously described when only the preload acts on wormshaft and thus the outer peripheral surface of pushing portion is still out of abutment with the wall surface of restriction wall the backlash adjustment is made by the spring load of spring portion and the shrinkage force of O ring . After the outer peripheral surface of pushing portion has been brought into abutment with the wall surface of restriction wall due to an excessive load input from worm wheel to wormshaft the backlash adjustment is made by the reaction force the elastic force produced by compressive deformation of pushing portion in addition to both the spring load of spring portion and the shrinkage force of O ring . As appreciated the preload portion of backlash adjustment mechanism has a non linear load deflection characteristic that a plurality of spring stiffness characteristic values are combined with each other.

Details of the load deflection characteristic of preload portion are hereunder described in reference to . In the characteristic diagram shown in assume that the zero deflection point obtained under a specific state where there is no generation of the meshing force between wormshaft and worm wheel is defined as an origin O and the abutment point obtained when the outer peripheral surface of pushing portion has been brought into abutment with the wall surface of restriction wall is defined as a point M .

As previously discussed preload portion is forced radially outward under a condition where bearing holder is mounted in such a manner as to enclose and fit onto first bearing . Thus at the origin O a predetermined or preset load N acts on preload portion . Under these conditions when a meshing force is created between wormshaft and worm wheel due to steering action preload portion is forced radially outward against a comparatively weak elastic force produced by the force of resiliency of spring portion and the shrinkage force of O ring until the outer peripheral surface of pushing portion is brought into abutment with the wall surface of restriction wall within a normal steering assist area that is within an area defined between the origin O and the point M . Therefore within such an area the shown load deflection characteristic exhibits a small spring stiffness characteristic having a moderate gradient. After the outer peripheral surface of pushing portion has been brought into abutment with the wall surface of restriction wall that is within an area corresponding to the right hand side of the point M pushing portion is forced against the inner wall of adjustment mechanism housing portion through first bearing and thus compressive deformation of pushing portion itself in the radial direction i.e. in thickness occurs. In particular in an abutment input area in which the steering input element has been brought into abutted engagement with its lock end under the steering assist state a strong reaction force an excessively large input load transmitted from worm wheel acts on wormshaft . Within such a large input area preload portion is forced radially outward against a comparatively strong reaction force elastic force produced by the compressive deformation of pushing portion . Therefore within the large input area the shown load deflection characteristic exhibits a large spring stiffness characteristic having a steep gradient. As set forth above regarding backlash adjustment mechanism the load deflection characteristic of preload portion is designed to provide a plurality of spring stiffness characteristic values differing from each other. Even at a normal steering mode during flat road driving or even in the presence of action of an excessively large input load from the road surface to the steering system it is possible to provide the deflection characteristic of preload portion suited for each of the steering situations. Thus it is possible to constantly apply an appropriate preload to wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with worm wheel . As a result it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between toothed portion of wormshaft and toothed portion of worm wheel .

Therefore according to the embodiment the holding portion provided to hold first bearing and the preload portion provided to preload first bearing are integrally formed each other as bearing holder and whereby it is possible to enhance the accuracy of relative position between preload portion and first bearing . This enables certain stable preloading of wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with worm wheel . As a result of this it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between toothed portion of wormshaft and toothed portion of worm wheel .

When installing bearing holder which can provide the previously discussed operation and effects the bearing holder is formed coaxially with shaft housing portion and configured to be retained by a wall surface of restriction wall having a substantially same curvature as holding portion . Therefore it is possible to simultaneously machine the wall surface of restriction wall together with shaft housing portion by drilling. Accordingly both the restriction wall and the shaft housing portion can be rapidly easily machined thus ensuring reduced machining time and thus it is possible to suppress manufacturing costs of the system from being increased due to the introduction of backlash adjustment mechanism . Additionally by virtue of the previously noted simultaneously machining it is possible to enhance the machining accuracy of restriction wall relative to shaft housing portion thus ensuring a high precision relative position relationship between bearing holder and first bearing . As a result of this an effective preloading action of preload portion can be ensured and thus the accuracy of meshed engagement between toothed portion of wormshaft and toothed portion of worm wheel can be more certainly enhanced.

Furthermore O ring is installed on bearing holder for assisting preload portion . Hence it is possible to increase the preload of preload portion thus suppressing the resiliency of the preload portion from deteriorating due to repeated elastic deformations of spring portion . This enhances the durability of preload portion thus insuring a more stable preload acting on wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement.

Moreover by the addition of O ring it is possible to preload wormshaft by means of two preloading means having spring stiffnesses differing from each other thus enhancing the degree of freedom of adjustment of the preload of bearing holder . Accordingly it is possible to set the preload to a more appropriate magnitude.

Additionally spring portion is formed into a tapered shape that its thickness gradually increases radially outward such that only the rigidity of basal end portion is reduced. Hence it is possible to ensure the total rigidity of preload portion while ensuring a good elasticity of spring portion .

Also holding portion is formed on its inner peripheral surface with two opposing guides spaced apart from each other by the radial distance W identical to or slightly less than the outside diameter R of first bearing . Therefore when first bearing is forced by means of preload portion only the radial displacement of first bearing toward worm wheel is permitted by restriction of guides . Thus it is possible to certainly force the lower end of wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with worm wheel .

Furthermore in order to disable rotation of bearing holder engaged protrusion portion formed integral with holding portion is engaged with engage groove formed in adjustment mechanism housing portion . Accordingly it is possible to certainly prevent undesirable rotary motion of bearing holder which may occur due to vibrations and thus it is possible to more certainly preload the lower end of wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with worm wheel .

Additionally holding portion is formed on its outer bottom surface with a plurality of protrusions and plug member is forced into contact with each of protrusions . Hence axial rattling motion of bearing holder can be certainly prevented. Accordingly it is possible to more certainly preload the lower end of wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with worm wheel .

Also bearing holder is formed of a synthetic resin and therefore as a matter of course it is possible to easily form the bearing holder. In particular even when an excessively large input load transmitted from the side of worm wheel acts on wormshaft it is possible to prevent impact noise caused by abutment of preload portion with restriction wall due to the input load. Also preload portion is configured to be supported by the bottom wall of holding portion via slits . Thus it is possible to freely set a radial displacement of preload portion by varying only the depth of cut of each of slits . Additionally it is possible to adjust the stiffness of preload portion relative to holding portion that is the preload created by preload portion by varying only the interval between slits . This contributes to the increased design flexibility of bearing holder . Furthermore the direction of the cut out of each of slits is designed to be identical to the direction of deflection of preload portion thereby easily assuring the directionality of preload portion when deflected.

As previously discussed O ring acts or serves to assist the force of resiliency of preload portion . Thus even in the case of bearing holder not employing O ring it is possible to provide almost the same operation and effects as the first embodiment.

Therefore the second embodiment can provide the same operation and effects as the first embodiment. Additionally it is possible to finely set the preload by varying the cross sectional dimension and or the inside diameter of O ring thus producing a more appropriate magnitude of preload. Hence it is possible to more certainly enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between toothed portion of wormshaft and toothed portion of worm wheel show the system of the third embodiment made according to the present invention in which the shape of spring portion is modified from the second embodiment. As a whole spring portion is formed as a thin walled section as compared to the bottom wall of holding portion and spring portion is formed into a flat shape. Only the basal end portion is formed as a further thin walled section.

In the third embodiment it is possible to reduce only the rigidity of basal end portion . Thus the third embodiment can provide the same operation and effects as the second embodiment.

In the fourth embodiment in a similar manner to the third embodiment it is possible to reduce only the rigidity of basal end portion . Thus the fourth embodiment can provide the same operation and effects as the second embodiment. In the drawings the narrowed width portion is formed and cut out outward from the position slightly spaced apart from the root of basal end portion . Depending on the degree of the designated rigidity of basal end portion the narrowed width portion may be formed and cut out from the root of basal end portion

Hereby bearing holder can be press fitted into adjustment mechanism housing portion and thus protrusions are forced into contact with restriction wall so as to prevent rotary motion of the bearing holder. Thus the sixth embodiment can provide the same operation and effects as the second embodiment.

Hence spring portion tends to be elastically preloaded or deflected upward by the spring load of coil spring thus assisting the force of resiliency of preload portion . Therefore preload portion can draw the same rotary locus about basal end portion serving as the rotation center as the second embodiment. Thus the seventh embodiment can provide the same operation and effects as the second embodiment.

That is as shown in slits of bearing holder are cut out and formed into a shape of a character of such that the circumferential width Wr of preload portion gradually reduces toward the center Q of bearing holder . Concretely slits are cut out based on a cutting angle that the intersection point Q of two groove centerlines each interconnecting the outside end beginning of slit and the inside end end of slit is located radially outside of the inner peripheral surface of peripheral wall of holding portion .

Additionally in the eighth embodiment plug member is eliminated. In lieu thereof as shown in the lower end of adjustment mechanism housing portion is closed by a bottom wall which is formed integral with its peripheral wall the previously discussed restriction wall . Furthermore adjustment mechanism housing portion is formed to have almost the same bore as shaft housing portion and therefore the stepped portion between shaft housing portion and adjustment mechanism housing portion is eliminated. Hence the upper wall portion of adjustment mechanism housing portion is also eliminated.

Regarding bearing holder as shown in owing to the elimination of the upper wall portion of adjustment mechanism housing portion the location of engaged protrusion portion of holding portion is modified. That is the engaged protrusion portion is formed on the lower end face i.e. on the outer bottom surface of bottom wall of holding portion in such a manner as to protrude axially outward downward . Herewith adjustment mechanism housing portion is formed in its bottom wall with engage groove which is engaged with the engaged protrusion portion and cut out in a given position conformable to the engaged protrusion portion .

Furthermore bearing holder is formed with an inwardly protruding stepped portion which is arranged within a predetermined range of the lower end of the inner circumference of holding portion and has the inside diameter r sufficiently smaller than the outside diameter R of first bearing . That is stepped portion is formed within a substantially semi circular range extending from one of guides to the other guide and formed into a substantially U shape in lateral cross section in such a manner as to circumferentially continuously extend along the inner peripheral surface of holding portion . The upper end face of the stepped portion is formed as a substantially horizontal surface. First bearing is supported by the stepped portion . By virtue of the stepped portion first bearing is forced toward restriction portion of wormshaft so as to restrict an axially outward movement a downward movement of first bearing . This eliminates the necessity of snap ring of the first embodiment. Therefore according to the eighth embodiment preload portion is formed such that its circumferential width Wr gradually increases radially outward. It is possible to increase the pressure receiving area of pushing portion needed to receive an input load transmitted from the side of worm wheel through first bearing while ensuring an appropriate rigidity of basal end portion of spring portion in other words an appropriate preload of preload portion .

Hereby even when an excessively large input load from worm wheel acts on wormshaft it is possible to adequately reduce a bearing pressure acting on pushing portion through first bearing and arising from the input load. As a result it is possible to enhance the pressure tightness of pushing portion . Therefore even when pushing portion is jammed between first bearing and restriction wall there is no risk of buckling or damage to pushing portion .

Additionally it is possible to more certainly enhance the ability of pushing portion to hold first bearing by circumferentially enlarging the pressure receiving area of pushing portion thus enabling first bearing to be certainly held at the central side of bearing holder . As a result of this it is possible to enhance the accuracy of meshed engagement between toothed portion of wormshaft and toothed portion of worm wheel .

Regarding the cutting angle of each of slits it is more preferable to set the cutting angle to a cutting angle that the angle between the line segment X connecting the center O of holding portion and the circumferential midpoint of pushing portion and the line segment Y connecting the center O of holding portion and the groove center of the beginning of slit of each of slits is an approximately 45 . In the case of setting of the cutting angle to such a cutting angle the bearing pressure acting on pushing portion and the preload applied to wormshaft by preload portion are greatly balanced to each other. In this case it is possible to reconcile both the enhanced pressure tightness of pushing portion and the enhanced accuracy of meshed engagement between wormshaft and worm wheel .

Furthermore the lower end of adjustment mechanism housing portion is formed as the bottom wall which is formed integral with housing and hence plug member is eliminated. Additionally regarding bearing holder holding portion has stepped portion integrally formed on the lower end of its inner periphery and hence snap ring is eliminated. Therefore it is possible to reduce the number of parts of backlash adjustment mechanism thus enhancing the assembling efficiency of the system. As a result of this it is possible to suppress manufacturing costs of the system from being increased due to the introduction of backlash adjustment mechanism .

That is as shown in bearing holder is formed of a synthetic resin in the same manner as each of the previously discussed embodiments. The bearing holder is mainly constructed by holding portion which serves as a main body of the bearing holder and is formed into a substantially circular arc shape in lateral cross section. Holding portion has the inside diameter r slightly less than the outside diameter R of first bearing . The holding portion is formed with a thin walled portion which is formed within a predetermined circumferential range at a substantially intermediate position of holding portion and whose radial thickness is dimensioned to be slightly thin walled. Both ends of a radially deformable preload portion are integrally connected to the respective circumferential ends of the inner periphery of thin walled portion in such a manner as to bypass thin walled portion . Thus an internal space is defined between preload portion and thin walled portion in such a manner as to be formed into a substantially elliptical shape in lateral cross section. With the previously noted bearing holder as shown in the bearing holder is housed and retained in adjustment mechanism housing portion such that the opening of holding portion is oriented toward the side of worm wheel .

As shown in preload portion is configured to enable first bearing to be preloaded radially toward the opening of holding portion by the force of resiliency of the preload portion itself. Under an unloaded condition under a load free condition the radial distance L from the inner surface of the preload portion to the center O of holding portion is dimensioned to be less than the outside diameter R of first bearing in such a manner as to define the internal space between the preload portion and thin walled portion . When the greatest radially outward elastic deformation of the preload portion occurs the previously noted radial distance L is also set to be substantially identical to the outside diameter R of first bearing such that the outer surface of the preload portion is brought into abutment with the inner peripheral surface of thin walled portion and then the preload portion and the thin walled portion become abutted closely to each other.

Furthermore holding portion is formed on its inner peripheral surface of the circumferential both ends with two opposing flat guides which are arranged parallel to each other and spaced apart from each other by the radial distance the radial width W identical to or slightly less than the outside diameter R of first bearing . Therefore when first bearing is forced by means of preload portion only the radial displacement of first bearing toward worm wheel is permitted by restriction of guides . Thus it is possible to certainly force the lower end of wormshaft in the direction of meshed engagement with worm wheel .

Moreover holding portion is formed on its inner peripheral surface of the circumferential both ends with two opposing radially inward protruding stepped portions which is spaced apart from each other by a radial distance or a radial interval W sufficiently smaller than the outside diameter R of first bearing and each of which upper end faces is formed as a substantially horizontal surface. These stepped portions are opposed to each other and arranged parallel to each other along the respective guides . First bearing is supported by the stepped portions . By virtue of the stepped portions first bearing is forced toward restriction portion of wormshaft so as to restrict an axially outward movement a downward movement of first bearing . This eliminates the necessity of snap ring .

Additionally holding portion is formed in a predetermined circumferential position of its upper end face with an axially inward upward protruding engaged protrusion portion which is engaged with engage groove of adjustment mechanism housing portion thereby restricting the displacement of bearing holder in the direction of rotation of the bearing holder.

As shown in under a condition where bearing holder constructed as discussed previously is inserted into adjustment mechanism housing portion in such a manner as to enclose and fit onto first bearing fitted to the lower end of wormshaft the inside diameter r of holding portion is dimensioned to be greater than the outside diameter R of first bearing . Additionally under an unloaded condition of preload portion its radial distance L is dimensioned to be less than the outside diameter R of first bearing . Thus a push force or a pressure see the arrow F from first bearing which pressure is created due to the dimensional difference between the outside diameter R of first bearing and the radial distance L defined by preload portion acts on preload portion so that preload portion is forced radially outward by first bearing . Thus the force see the arrow f of resiliency of preload portion itself is generated. By virtue of the force of resiliency first bearing is automatically preloaded or forced toward worm wheel .

As set forth above the force of resiliency of preload portion is transmitted through first bearing to the lower end of wormshaft and therefore the lower end of wormshaft is permanently preloaded in the direction of meshed engagement with worm wheel in the same manner as each of the previously discussed embodiments. Accordingly the backlash between toothed portions and of the wormshaft and worm wheel can be always maintained at zero backlash.

Therefore according to the ninth embodiment bearing holder has the minimized configuration needed to solve the technical task of the present application. That is it is possible to inexpensively produce bearing holder and thus it is possible to suppress manufacturing costs of the system from being increased due to the introduction of bearing holder .

Additionally the bearing holder of the ninth embodiment differs from that of each of the previously discussed embodiments in that there is no need that a separate preloading member must be provided. Therefore it is possible to reduce the number of component parts constructing backlash adjustment mechanism thus enhancing the assembling efficiency of the system. As a result of this it is possible to more certainly suppress manufacturing costs of the system from being increased.

In the case of the aforementioned bearing holder when an excessively large input load transmitted from worm wheel acts on wormshaft preload portion is brought into abutment with the thin walled portion of holding portion . Thin walled portion and preload portion are both formed of synthetic resins and formed integral with each other and therefore it is possible to more certainly suppress impact noise caused by abutment between the thin walled portion and the preload portion. Additionally even when the comparatively thin walled preload portion is jammed between first bearing and thin walled portion there is no risk of buckling or damage to preload portion since first bearing i.e. one of the two members sandwiching the preload portion therebetween is constructed by metal materials but thin walled portion i.e. the other of the two members is formed of a synthetic resin.

Furthermore preload portion is configured to be abutted closely to thin walled portion when an excessively large input load is applied through first bearing to bearing holder so that both of the preload portion and the thin walled portion are unified. Thus it is possible to certainly ensure an appropriate rigidity of preload portion enough to withstand the input load. This contributes to the enhanced durability of bearing holder .

Hereinafter explained is the other technical concept technical features carried out by the previously described embodiments except the inventive concept as defined by claims.

 1 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the previously described holding portion has a bottom wall and a peripheral wall formed to extend upward from a circumference of the bottom wall for retaining an outer peripheral surface of the bearing and the preload portion is supported by the bottom wall of the holding portion via a pair of slits which slits are formed by cutting out the bottom wall and the peripheral wall from the outer circumference side and has a spring portion formed continuously with the bottom wall and thin walled than the bottom wall and a pushing portion extending upward from the outermost end of the spring portion and provided for holding a part of the outer peripheral surface of the bearing and the bearing is forced in the direction of meshed engagement of the wormshaft with the worm wheel through the pushing portion by the force of resiliency of the spring portion whose basal end portion serves as a fulcrum.

 2 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the previously described holding portion has a bottom wall and a peripheral wall formed to extend upward from a circumference of the bottom wall for retaining an outer peripheral surface of the bearing and the preload portion is supported by the bottom wall of the holding portion via a pair of slits which slits are formed by cutting out the bottom wall and the peripheral wall from the outer circumference side and has a spring portion formed continuously with the bottom wall and thin walled than the bottom wall and a pushing portion extending upward from the outermost end of the spring portion and provided for holding a part of the outer peripheral surface of the bearing and the bearing is forced in the direction of meshed engagement of the wormshaft with the worm wheel through the pushing portion by virtue of inward elastic deformation of the preload portion about the basal end portion of the spring portion which basal end portion serves as a fulcrum created by the preload of the preload member.

 3 A power steering system as set forth in claims or characterized in that the previously described slit is formed along the direction of deflection of the preload portion.

According to the above mentioned invention it is possible to easily assuring the directionality of the preload portion when deflected.

 4 A power steering system as set forth in claims or characterized in that the rigidity of the basal end portion of the previously described spring portion is set to be less than that of the outside end of the spring portion.

According to the above mentioned invention only the rigidity of the basal end portion of the spring portion is reduced and hence it is possible to ensure the total rigidity of the preload portion while ensuring a good elasticity of the spring portion.

 5 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the spring portion is formed into a tapered shape that its thickness gradually increases outward.

 6 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the spring portion is formed into a flat shape having an approximately constant thickness and only the thickness of the basal end portion is thin walled than the other portion of the spring portion.

 7 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the width of the basal end portion of the spring portion is dimensioned to be less than that of the other portion of the spring portion.

 8 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the holding portion has a first annular groove formed in the outer peripheral surface of the peripheral wall of the holding portion along the circumferential direction and the pushing portion has a second annular groove formed in the outer peripheral surface of the pushing portion and formed continuously with the first annular groove via the slits and having a groove depth slightly shallower than the first annular groove and the preload member is formed into a substantially annular shape and fitted into both the first annular groove and the second annular groove.

 9 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that a groove width of the second annular groove is dimensioned to be greater than that of the first annular groove.

According to the above mentioned invention the preload portion is configured to deflect in such a manner as to draw a rotary locus about the basal end portion serving as a fulcrum. By virtue of the comparatively large groove width of the second annular groove it is possible to ensure a necessary space required for a displacement a sliding motion of the preload member. Even when the preload portion is deflecting it is possible to suppress shearing of the preload member i.e. the first preload member.

 10 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the preload member comprises an O ring such that a preload is applied to the preload portion by a shrinking action of the O ring in the radial direction of the O ring.

 11 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the preload member comprises an annular coil spring in which a beginning of spring and an end of spring are connected to each other to form an annular shape such that a preload is applied to the preload portion by a shrinking action of the annular coil spring in its radial direction.

 12 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the preload member comprises a substantially annular leaf spring such that a preload is applied to the preload portion by a shrinking action of the annular leaf spring in its radial direction.

 13 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the preload member comprises a coil spring such that a preload is applied to the preload portion by a shrinking action of the coil spring in its radial direction.

 14 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the groove depth of the first annular groove is set to a depth that the O ring is kept out of contact with the inner peripheral wall of the housing when the preload portion deflects.

According to the above mentioned invention there is no occurrence of slip between the outer peripheral surface of the O ring and the inner peripheral surface of the housing. Thus it is possible to prevent a hysteresis loss from occurring during elastic deformation of the O ring.

 15 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the groove depth of the first annular groove is set to a depth that the O ring is kept into elastic contact with the inner peripheral wall of the housing when the preload portion deflects.

According to the above mentioned invention when the preload portion deflects the O ring is brought into elastic contact with the inner peripheral surface of the housing. Thus even in the presence of input of vibrations transmitted to the system or in the presence of a large input load applied to the wormshaft it is possible to prevent noise from being generated due to impact between the bearing and the preload portion and due to impact between the preload portion and the housing.

 16 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the spring portion has a recessed groove formed in its outside end of the outer bottom surface and the preload member which applies an axial preload is disposed in the recessed groove and a plug member is provided for closing one opening end of the housing and for restricting an axial movement of the bearing holder and the preload member is disposed between the inner bottom surface of the recessed groove and one end face of the plug member under preload.

 17 A power steering system characterized in that the spring portion has a recessed groove formed in the outside end of the outer bottom surface and a second preload member which applies an axial preload is disposed in the recessed groove and a plug member is provided for closing one opening end of the housing and for restricting an axial movement of the bearing holder and the second preload member is disposed between the inner bottom surface of the recessed groove and one end face of the plug member under preload.

According to the above mentioned invention an inward deflection of the preload portion is assisted by the preload of the second preload member. Thus it is possible to suppress the influence of changes in the spring characteristic of the spring portion of the preload portion acting on the bearing to a minimum even when a hysteresis loss occurs during elastic deformation of the O ring. Thus it is possible to reconcile the suitable cushioning effect for impact between the outer peripheral surface of the pushing portion and the inner peripheral surface of the housing and the reliable application of the preload to the bearing.

 18 A power steering system characterized in that the preload member comprises a coil spring such that a preload is applied to the spring portion by an axial spring force of the coil spring.

 19 A power steering system as set forth in claim characterized in that the preload member comprises a leaf spring such that a preload is applied to the spring portion by an upward downward spring force of the leaf spring.

 20 A power steering system characterized in that the preload member comprises a substantially column shaped rubber member such that a preload is applied to the spring portion by an axial elastic force of the rubber member.

 21 A power steering system characterized in that a plug member is provided for closing one opening end of the housing and for restricting an axial movement of the bearing holder and a plurality of protrusions are formed on the outer bottom surface of the bottom wall of the holding portion or on its opposing end face of the plug member and the plug member is arranged to be forced into contact with the outer bottom surface of the bottom wall of the holding portion through the protrusions.

According to the above mentioned invention the bearing holder is forced into contact with the plug member through the protrusions. Thus it is possible to certainly prevent axial rattling motion of the holding portion of the bearing holder.

 22 A power steering system characterized in that each of the protrusions is formed on the outer bottom surface of the bottom wall of the holding portion and the plug member is arranged to be forced into contact with each of the protrusions.

 23 A power steering system characterized in that the holding portion has a protrusion portion formed on its outer surface.

According to the above mentioned invention it is possible to prevent undesirable rotary motion of the bearing holder by the provision of the protrusion portion formed on the outer surface of the holding portion. Thus it is possible to certainly preload the bearing in the direction that the wormshaft and the worm wheel are brought into meshed engagement with each other by means of the preload portion.

 24 A power steering system characterized in that the protrusion portion comprises a plurality of protrusion portions formed on the outer peripheral surface of the holding portion within a given range of the outer peripheral surface.

 25 A power steering system characterized in that the housing has a plurality of engage grooves formed in the inner peripheral surface of the housing in given positions conformable to the respective protrusions in such a manner as to engage with the respective protrusions.

 26 A power steering system characterized in that the protrusion portion is formed to protrude from the upper end face of the holding portion and an engage groove with which the protrusion portion is engaged is formed in the inner bottom surface of the opening end of the housing.

 27 A power steering system characterized in that the protrusion portion is formed to protrude from the outer peripheral surface of the holding portion and an engage groove with which the protrusion portion is engaged is formed in the inner peripheral surface of the housing.

 28 A power steering system characterized in that the bearing is retained at one end of the wormshaft by a retaining means.

 30 A power steering system characterized in that one sidewall surface of the snap ring is formed as a tapered sidewall surface.

 31 A power steering system characterized in that the snap ring is axially curved and formed into an arc shape.

 32 A power steering system characterized in that as the retaining means the bearing is press fitted into the one end of the wormshaft.

It will be understood that the invention is not limited to the particular embodiments shown and described herein but that various changes and modifications may be made. For instance the shape and size of the previously described bearing holder may vary depending on the specification and size of automotive vehicle.

In particular the previously discussed O ring represents the first preload member recited in the previously noted claims. Instead of using the O ring the following means can be used or adopted. As the first example the beginning of spring and the end of spring of a comparatively elongated coil spring are connected to each other to form an annular shape and then the annular coil spring is fitted into both the first annular groove and the second annular groove such that a preload is applied to the pushing portion by a shrinking action of the annular coil spring in its radial direction. As the second example a substantially annular leaf spring such as a snap ring is fitted into both the first annular groove and the second annular groove such that a preload is applied to the pushing portion by a shrinking action of the annular leaf spring in its radial direction. As the third example a coil spring is fitted into both the first annular groove and the second annular groove such that a preload is applied to the pushing portion by a shrinking action of the coil spring in its radial direction. The modifications as previously discussed can provide the same operation and effects as the first embodiment.

Also the coil spring represents the second preload member recited in the previously noted claims. Instead of using the coil spring the following means can be used or adopted. For instance a generally known leaf spring or a substantially column shaped rubber material may be used. Such a modification can also provide the same operation and effects as the seventh embodiment.

Regarding a structure that wormshaft and first bearing are connected to each other a part of the previously discussed snap ring may be curved and formed into a substantially arc shape. The curved portion acts to force first bearing toward the previously described restriction portion so as to retain the first bearing in place. Furthermore as the other example first bearing may be press fitted onto the lower end of wormshaft . In lieu thereof first bearing may be forced toward restriction portion by means of a bolt and a nut.

Each of the previously discussed modifications may be freely combined with each of the embodiments shown and described herein. Such a free or arbitrary combination can provide the same operation and effects as each of the embodiments shown and described herein.

In the shown embodiments restriction wall is formed into a circular shape in lateral cross section. However it will be understood that the restriction wall is not limited to such a circular shape in lateral cross section. As an essential structural condition the restriction wall has only to have a wall surface configured to avoid slight rattling motion of holding portion and restrict a radial movement of holding portion . For instance the wall surface of restriction wall may be formed into a circular arc shape in lateral cross section. In lieu thereof restriction wall may be formed circumferentially intermittently rather than continuously.

Also in the first to sixth embodiments and in the eighth embodiment O ring may be provided to be kept always in contact with restriction wall . In this case even when preload portion deflects radially outward owing to an excessively large input load acting on wormshaft and thus the outer peripheral surface of pushing portion is brought into abutment with restriction wall it is possible to relax impact caused by the abutment therebetween. Thus it is possible to more certainly prevent impact noise caused by the abutment.

In the sixth embodiment the previously discussed restriction wall may be formed with engage grooves which are cut out in given positions conformable to respective protrusion portions for engagement of the engage grooves with the respective protrusion portions. In this case by the previously noted engagement it is possible to certainly retain bearing holder thus more certainly preventing rotary motion of bearing holder .

Furthermore in the seventh embodiment in the same manner as each of the first to sixth embodiments bearing holder may be formed with the first annular groove and the second annular groove . That is O ring fitted into these grooves may be further combined. In this case the system can cope with a large load inputted into wormshaft and simultaneously it is possible to enhance the durability of bearing holder .

Also each of protrusions may be formed on the outer surface of the upper wall of plug member . In this case such a modification can provide the same operation and effects as the first embodiment.

As set forth above each of the previously discussed modifications may be freely combined with each of the embodiments shown and described herein. Such a free or arbitrary combination can provide the same operation and effects as each of the embodiments shown and described herein.

