---

title: Keyword generation and management for selection of customized content for a user device
abstract: A system for selecting customized content for a user device is provided. The system includes a processor and an information extractor that, when executed by the processor, is configured to obtain at least one keyword from analyzing data entered into the user device. The system includes a behavioral engine that, when executed by the processor, is configured to obtain at least one keyword from analyzing a behavior of a user of the user device. The system also includes a keyword manager that, when executed by the processor, is configured to receive at least two keywords from the information extractor and/or the behavioral engine and to analyze the at least two keywords to obtain a prioritized list of keywords and to provide the prioritized list of keywords to a component that is configured to select customized content for the user device based on the prioritized list of keywords.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07761408&OS=07761408&RS=07761408
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 07761408
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20070823
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 886 045 entitled Keyword Manager filed on Jan. 22 2007 by Garima Agarwal et al. which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

User devices used in telecommunications networks may offer additional functions beyond the standard voice communication functions. For example text messaging applications music applications shopping applications web browsing applications games and other applications might be provided on user devices. As used herein the term user device can include mobile terminals such as mobile telephones personal digital assistants handheld computers and similar devices but can also include fixed terminals such as residential gateways.

In one embodiment a method for selecting customized content for a user device is provided. The method includes receiving information into the user device from a plurality of sources. The method includes analyzing the information to obtain at least one keyword from each of at least two of the plurality of sources and analyzing the keywords from at least two of the plurality of sources to obtain a prioritized list of keywords. The method also includes using the prioritized list of keywords to select customized content for the user device.

In another embodiment a system for selecting customized content for a user device is provided. The system includes a processor and an information extractor that when executed by the processor is configured to obtain at least one keyword from analyzing data entered into the user device. The system includes a behavioral engine that when executed by the processor is configured to obtain at least one keyword from analyzing a behavior of a user of the user device. The system also includes a keyword manager that when executed by the processor is configured to receive at least two keywords from at least one of the information extractor and the behavioral engine. The keyword manager is further configured to analyze the at least two keywords to obtain a prioritized list of keywords and to provide the prioritized list of keywords to a component that is configured to select customized content for the user device based on the prioritized list of keywords.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and or methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Embodiments of the present disclosure can provide an enhanced user experience for users of user devices in telecommunications networks. Information from multiple sources can be combined to create a highly personalized interest profile for a user. The profile can then be used to customize content that is displayed on the user device. The information sources used to create the profile might include information the user enters into applications on the user device information deduced about the user based on the user s behavior generally known information such as the dates of holidays and other special events and other sources.

The user interest profile can be based on a set of keywords generated by a keyword manager. Information from each of the information sources might be used to generate keywords related to that specific information source. These source specific keywords can then be correlated to one another to generate high level keywords that reflect the user s interests and preferences across a broad range of information sources. The high level keywords can then be prioritized and used to provide the user with content that is personalized and customized to a greater degree than might be possible when information from only a single source is considered.

The information extraction component receives data that a user enters into a user device and extracts pertinent keywords from the entered data. The information extraction component can include two components an information extractor and a text keyword database . Data that the user types speaks or otherwise enters into the user device is captured by the information extractor . For example the information extractor might capture the keystrokes that the user enters into an instant messaging IM program a short message service SMS program or a similar communication program. The information extractor might also include a voice recognition component that can capture words spoken by the user such as voice commands and words spoken in the course of telephone conversations.

The information extractor can analyze the words it captures to generate keywords that reflect the user s interests and preferences. However the information extractor does not merely recognize the words it captures and consider the words that are used repeatedly to be keywords. Instead the information extractor has the capability to understand the meaning and context of the words it captures and base the keywords it generates on inferences about the user s intent when using the words.

For example if the user during the course of a conversation repeatedly expressed a dislike for a particular product it would not be desirable to consider the name of that product to be a keyword and to base the content that is provided to the user on the name of that product. The information extractor would be capable of recognizing the context in which the name of the product was used and would not generate a keyword based on the product name. On the other hand the information extractor might be capable of generating a keyword based on a product name that is used in a favorable context even if the product name is used only a small number of times.

While this example has referred to the generation of keywords based on product names it should be understood that keywords might be generated based on any words that the user speaks types or otherwise enters into the user device. After the information extractor generates a keyword the information extractor stores the keyword in the text keyword database .

The behavior recognition component can generate keywords based on the user s behavior. Types of behavior that can be recognized and analyzed might include the applications the user has launched web sites visited items purchased music or video clips played maps requested and other activities the user has engaged in by means of the user device. The time of day day of the week date and or other time related parameters at which the user engaged in the activities might also be recorded. The frequency of occurrence of such events might also be noted.

Behavior related data gathered in such a manner can be correlated across multiple applications to infer the user s short term and long term interests. These interests can be prioritized and then used to build a profile of the user. The profile might be summarized in one or more keywords and the keywords can be stored for future use in determining content to be provided to the user.

The behavior recognition component can include a pattern recognizer a history manager a behavioral engine and a behavioral keyword database . The pattern recognizer can recognize patterns in the user s behavior and might include one or more recognizer modules . Each of the recognizer modules is capable of recognizing a particular type of behavior. For example one recognizer module might recognize time related parameters of the user s behavior such as which activities occur in the morning which activities occur on weekends which activities occur on holidays and so on. Another recognizer module might recognize the applications the user has launched another recognizer module might recognize the web sites the user has visited and so on.

Time related data recognized by the recognizer modules might be stored in the history manager . The history manager might then attempt to detect a usage pattern based on the time related data. The history manager and the pattern recognizer can send their data to the behavioral engine and the behavioral engine can process the information to create a short term or long term user behavior pattern. The behavioral engine might then summarize the behavior pattern in one or more keywords.

As an example of a short term interest it might be recognized the user has recently purchased music from a particular band via a web browsing application and has recently listened to music from the same band via an audio player application. The behavioral engine might correlate these two pieces of information from different applications to infer that the user is currently interested in that band. The behavioral engine might then generate a keyword related to the band and the keyword might indicate that it is related to a short term interest.

As an example of a long term interest it might be recognized the user purchased tickets online for a football game during football season frequently does web searches for baseball statistics during baseball season and plays an electronic golf simulation game throughout the year. The behavioral engine might correlate these pieces of information from different applications to infer that the user has a long term interest in sports. The behavioral engine might then generate a keyword related to sports and the keyword might indicate that it is related to a long term interest.

As another example it might be recognized that the user purchased music in a particular genre but then never purchased more music in that genre. The behavioral engine might infer that the user was merely investigating whether the genre was of interest or that the user made the purchase as a gift and that the user is not personally interested in the genre. The behavioral engine might not generate a keyword related to the genre or might generate a negative keyword indicating that the user has no interest in the genre.

The behavioral engine can prioritize the keywords generated in this manner to create a hierarchical profile of the user s short term and long term interests. For example if the user s behavior indicates that the user is interested in both sports and music but has more interest in sports than in music a sports related keyword might be given a higher priority than a music related keyword. The behavioral engine can then store the prioritized keywords in the behavioral keyword database .

The temporal profile acts as a calendar that is aware of time related parameters. For example the temporal profile might be aware of the time of day the day of the week the calendar date and the season of the year. The temporal profile might also be aware of the dates when annual holidays and festivals such as Christmas or Valentine s Day fall. In addition the temporal profile might be aware of when recurring special events are scheduled to occur. For instance the temporal profile might be aware of the date when Mardi Gras falls the date when the Super Bowl will be played the weeks when the Summer Olympics will be held the dates when an annually performed play will be staged or the dates for other events that occur regularly but not necessarily on the same date for each occurrence.

The general profile contains general information about the user. For example the general profile might include the user s age gender occupation marital status number of children city of residence and other personal details about the user. The user might manually enter this information into the user device for example through the keyword manager API . The user device might include a questionnaire that solicits this information from the user receives the user s responses and stores the responses in the general profile .

The application profile contains information related to the applications that the user has launched on the user device and the activities that the user has engaged in while in those applications. For example the application profile might include information about the user s browsing history in a browser application web searches the user has conducted in a browser application purchases the user has made through a shopping application and other application related data. The application profile might also include information about the user s personal preferences that the user has entered into an application. In addition the application profile might keep track of the applications currently executing on the user device and the functions that those applications perform. For instance the application profile might include the fact that a gaming application is currently executing on the user device and that the game has a sports related theme.

The keyword manager engine can receive information from the information extraction component the behavior recognition component the temporal profile the general profile and the application profile . The keyword manager engine can then correlate the data from these disparate sources to characterize the content that is appropriate to be provided to the user device. That is the keyword manager engine can combine keywords from the text keyword database and keywords from the behavioral keyword database with data from the temporal profile the general profile and the application profile and can create a prioritized list of keywords that it deems most relevant to the user at the current time. The keyword manager engine can then cause content associated with these prioritized keywords to be provided to the user device as described in more detail below.

In an embodiment the keyword manager engine might pass keywords through the keyword translator . The prioritized keywords generated by the keyword manager engine might not necessarily be recognizable to the applications that use the keywords. The keyword translator can translate keywords from the format used by the keyword manager engine to a format that is recognizable to the applications that use them such as the applications . For example the keyword manager engine might encode an inferred user interest in sports by using the keyword sports . A vendor application that uses keywords provided by the keyword manager engine might encode an interest in sports using a different keyword or some other numeric or symbolic representation. The keyword translator could translate the keyword sports into an equivalent representation used by the vendor application.

The keyword translator might be a single universal component that can translate keywords from the format used by the keyword manager engine into any format used by any application. Alternatively the keyword translator might include separate modules each dedicated to translating from the keyword manager engine format into the format of a single application. A combination of one or more translation modules for multiple applications and one or more translation modules for individual applications is also possible.

The keyword manager API is an interface between the keyword manager and the applications that interact with the keyword manager . Translated keywords can be passed from the keyword manager to the applications via the keyword manager API and used by the applications . Information entered into the applications can be passed from the applications to the keyword manager via the keyword manager API and used by the keyword manager to generate keywords.

The applications might be native to the user device or might be external applications that have been installed on the user device post purchase. As mentioned previously the applications can make use of information received from the keyword manager and can provide information to the keyword manager . As discussed in more detail below the content that is provided to the applications can be generated by the applications themselves based on the keywords provided to the applications or can be generated elsewhere based on the keywords and then provided to the applications .

The functions performed by the information extraction component and the behavior recognition component can consume a great deal of processing power. Since the keyword manager might be installed on a mobile telephone or a similar user device with limited processing power the execution of the information extraction component and the behavior recognition component might cause a deterioration in the performance of other applications on the user device. In an embodiment the information extraction component and the behavior recognition component can be placed in low priority processing threads that execute only when higher priority applications are not executing.

For example the information extraction component might be placed in a low priority thread A and the behavior recognition component might be placed in a low priority thread B. Low priority thread A and low priority thread B might be scheduled to execute only late at night when other applications are not likely to be executing. Alternatively a monitoring component on the user device might monitor the processing resources in use on the user device and might allow low priority thread A and low priority thread B to execute in the background when it is determined that those threads can execute without disruption to higher priority applications. The results of the processing of low priority thread A and low priority thread B can be made available for use by the keyword manager engine in real time.

The IM miner and the SMS miner can analyze the user input that is made into IM programs and SMS programs respectively. The IM miner and the SMS miner can then generate keywords based on the IM and SMS data. Similarly the other data mining applications can analyze the user input from other sources and generate keywords from these other sources of user input .

Keywords generated by the voice recognition module the IM miner the SMS miner and the other data mining applications can be stored in the text keyword database of . Thus the voice recognition module the IM miner the SMS miner and the other data mining applications collectively can be considered substantially similar to the information extractor of .

Keywords generated by the information extractor can be fed via the text keyword database into the keyword manager engine as described above. Keywords from the behavior recognition component the temporal profile the general profile and the application profile of which are not shown in can also be fed into the keyword manager engine . The keyword manager engine can then process the keywords as described above and make the results of its processing available to the keyword translator and the keyword manager API of which are not shown in .

As described above the keyword manager engine can create a prioritized list of keywords from the data it receives from the information extraction component the behavior recognition component the temporal profile the general profile and the application profile . As mentioned previously the functions performed by the information extraction component the behavior recognition component and the keyword manager engine can consume a great deal of processing power. In an embodiment a portion of the data that might otherwise be processed by these components is instead transmitted to a remote processing server and processed by the processing server . The processing server might be a component in a telecommunications network with which the user device can wirelessly communicate.

After processing the data transmitted by the user device the processing server can then return the processed data to the information extraction component the behavior recognition component and or the keyword manager engine . The information extraction component the behavior recognition component and or the keyword manager engine can then make use of the processed data as if the data had been processed internally by those components. The processing performed by the processing server can occur in addition to or instead of the processing that is performed on the user device by low priority thread A and low priority thread B as described above. The data that is transmitted to the processing server might be limited by the constraints on the transmission of private data. Remote processing of user input in this manner can reduce the processing burden on the information extraction component the behavior recognition component and the keyword manager engine and free processing resources on the user device for other purposes.

The prioritized keywords generated by the keyword manager engine can be made available to a set of keyword consumption applications . The keyword consumption applications might include a shopping client a video engine a music engine and or other clients . These applications can use the keywords generated by the keyword manager engine to provide customized content to a user of the user device who uses the applications . While the applications are referred to as keyword consumption applications it should be understood that in addition to using the keywords the applications might also feed data back into the keyword manager for use in generating keywords as described in regard to the applications of . The applications however might include applications that provide data to the keyword manager but do not make use of the keywords generated by the keyword manager .

One type of customized content that might be provided by the keyword consumption applications is advertising. For example when a user selects one of the applications to launch an advertisement might appear on the user device before the application is launched. Alternatively the advertisement might appear when the application is closed or might appear in the application itself. The advertisement might be customized for the user based on the keywords generated by the keyword engine . The type of application that is launched might also be taken into consideration in determining the content of the advertisement.

In an embodiment an advertisement service can determine the content of the advertisement that is displayed on the user device . That is when one of the applications is launched the keyword manager might send the advertisement service any keywords that might be relevant to the current circumstances. The advertisement service might then select an advertisement based on the keywords and return the advertisement to the user device . In an embodiment a set of advertisements available for selection by the advertisement service can be stored in a content server and retrieved by the advertisement service or by the user device . Alternatively the advertisements might be stored in the applications or elsewhere in the user device and might be selected by the advertisement service for display on the user device . In another embodiment the advertisement service and the content server can be a single component.

The content stored in the content server might be created by the entity that manages the advertisement service or the content might be created by an entity that manages one of the applications or some other third party and made available for use by the advertisement service . Also all or a portion of the functionality provided by the advertisement service might reside in the keyword manager engine in the applications and or in other components on the user device .

An example can illustrate how the keywords generated by the keyword manager can be used to provide customized advertising content to the user device . The temporal profile might indicate that the current day is Valentine s Day. A user s general profile might indicate that the user is married. The information extractor might determine that the user has recently performed a text search in the music engine for a CD of love songs. The keyword manager engine might use these pieces of information from multiple disparate sources to infer that the user might be interested in purchasing a gift for their spouse for Valentine s Day. When the user opens the shopping client an appropriate set of keywords might be sent to the advertisement service indicating this inferred interest. The advertisement service might then retrieve an appropriate advertisement such as an advertisement from a florist from the content server and transmit the advertisement to the user device . The user device might then cause the advertisement to be displayed before the shopping client is launched.

As another example the application profile might indicate that the user has recently conducted a web search for a home loan. The behavioral engine might indicate that the user is interested in sports. The keyword manager engine might combine these pieces of information to create one or more keywords that indicate interests in both new homes and sports. When the user launches one of the applications these keywords might be sent to the advertisement service . The advertisement service might then retrieve an advertisement for a housing development on a golf course or a similarly customized advertisement from the content server . The advertisement service could then transmit the advertisement to the user device for display before the application is launched.

The customized content that is provided to the user device based on the keywords is not necessarily an advertisement. For example when the user launches the video engine or the music engine suggestions might be offered to the user for video clips or songs that might be of interest to the user based on keywords that the keyword manager engine has previously derived. Alternatively the user might be given suggestions for free software downloads or other enhancements that might improve the user s experience when using the user device . In light of such possibilities the component that is referred to in as the advertisement service might be more generally referred to as a content selection service. Such a content selection service might operate in a manner similar to that described above in regard to the advertisement service . That is the content selection service could use keywords received from the keyword manager to select appropriate content and could retrieve the appropriate content from the content server and return the content to the user device .

The user device includes a display and a touch sensitive surface or keys for input by a user. The user device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The user device may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The user device may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the user device to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the user device may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer user device .

The user device may execute a web browser application which enables the display to show a web page. The web page may be obtained via wireless communications with a cell tower a wireless network access node a peer user device or any other wireless communication network or system. The cell tower or wireless network access node is coupled to a wired network such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network the user device has access to information on various servers such as a server . The server may provide content that may be shown on the display . Alternately the user device may access the cell tower through a peer user device acting as an intermediary in a relay type or hop type of connection.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the user device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the user device to send and receive information from a cellular network or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer user device . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedance matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF Transceiver portions of the Antenna and Front End and the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset and outputs to the earpiece and the headset . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the user device to be used as a cell phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast Fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast Fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB interface and the infrared port . The USB interface may enable the user device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the user device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the user device to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the user device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the user device to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology other than Charge Coupled Device cameras may be employed. The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the user device to determine its position. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

The user device the processing server the advertisement service and or the content server may include any general purpose or special purpose computer with sufficient processing power memory resources and network throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it. illustrates a typical general purpose computer system that may be suitable for implementing one or more embodiments disclosed herein. Similar components and functions might also be applicable to a suitable special purpose computer. The computer system includes a processor which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU that is in communication with memory devices including secondary storage read only memory ROM random access memory RAM input output I O devices and network connectivity devices . The processor may be implemented as one or more CPU chips.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage. The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage .

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA and or global system for mobile communications GSM radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in optical media for example optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed referred to herein as the transmission medium may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

