---

title: Methods and systems for displaying standardized data
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are generally related to data processing, and more specifically to processing data retrieved from a database. A GUI screen displaying query results may provide for the selection of a data standard to be applied to the query results. An analysis routine may identify specific results that comport with a selected data standard and visually identify the specific query results that comport with the selected data standard.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08190880&OS=08190880&RS=08190880
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08190880
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070124
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 626 459 entitled Methods and Systems for Retrieving Query Results Based on a Data Standard Specification filed herewith by Dettinger et al. This related patent application is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is generally related to data processing and more specifically to processing data retrieved from a database.

Databases are computerized information storage and retrieval systems. A relational database management system is a computer database management system DBMS that uses relational techniques for storing and retrieving data. The most prevalent type of database is the relational database a tabular database in which data is defined so that it can be reorganized and accessed in a number of different ways. A distributed database is one that can be dispersed or replicated among different points in a network. An object oriented programming database is one that is congruent with the data defined in object classes and subclasses.

Regardless of the particular architecture in a DBMS a requesting entity e.g. an application or the operating system demands access to a specified database by issuing a database access request. Such requests may include for instance simple catalog lookup requests or transactions and combinations of transactions that operate to read change and add specified records in the database. These requests are made using high level query languages such as the Structured Query Language SQL and application programming interfaces API s such as Java Database Connectivity JDBC . The term query denominates a set of commands for retrieving data from a stored database. Queries take the form of a command language such as SQL that lets programmers and programs select insert update find the location of data and so forth.

Any requesting entity including applications operating systems and at the highest level users can issue queries against data in a database. Queries may be predefined i.e. hard coded as part of an application or may be generated in response to input e.g. user input . Upon execution of a query against a database a query result is returned to the requesting entity.

For example a medical researcher may issue queries against a database to retrieve data to support research efforts. The data may include for example patient records that may be used to determine the pathology for particular disorders. Patient records may include for example a patients demographic data values for administered tests testing conditions patient response to tests doctor s notes and the like. Studying the data related to a particular disorder stored in a database may allow researchers to devise adequate measures to improve prevention diagnosis and management of the disorder.

One problem with retrieving data for medical research is that not all data retrieved by a query may be desirable. For example a researcher may collect data for his research from a number of sources for example from one or more hospitals. If a hospital does not have reliable procedures for data collection the data may be unreliable and therefore undesirable for inclusion in the research. For example a hospital may use outdated equipment for conducting tests on a patient thereby making that hospital s data unreliable and undesirable for research purposes.

Any given database may also contain invalid data that can be returned in a given query result such as negative age values. The invalid data can be introduced into a given database due to various reasons such as typographical errors architectural problems with data replication and timing mistakes in original data acquisition and the like. Because of the invalid data the given query result can be useless to a corresponding requesting entity that wants to further process the query result. For instance if the researcher wants to determine an average age of patients in a hospital for which a specific treatment is suitable and the query result includes negative age values an incorrect average value is obtained. Accordingly some level of data cleansing is needed to ensure data consistency accuracy and reliability in a given database.

However in large databases data cleansing is an expensive and time consuming process that may require a large amount of processor resources and an even larger amount of manpower. Accordingly data cleansing is not automatically implemented and or frequently performed in database environments and as a result corresponding databases may include undesirable or invalid data. Thus a user needs to perform a manual clean operation on each query result obtained from such a database in order to identify invalid data included therewith prior to further processing of the query result. More specifically the user needs to perform an exhaustive examination on any data returned from the database in order to verify whether the data is valid or to execute suitable database queries that are configured to identify whether the database includes the invalid data.

Accordingly what is needed are methods systems and articles of manufacture for retrieving data based on a quality of the data.

The present invention is generally related to data processing and more specifically to processing data retrieved from a database.

One embodiment of the invention provides a method for displaying query results. The method generally comprises receiving a selection of a data standard to be applied to a first set of query results displayed in a Graphical User Interface GUI screen the data standard being selected from at least two different data standards wherein the data standard defines a desired quality of data with respect to at least one field included in the first set of query results. The method further includes determining by an analysis routine a second set of query results in response to receiving the selection of the data standard the second set of query results being in accordance with the selected data standard and wherein the second set of query results is a subset of the first set of query results and identifying the second set of results of the query in the GUI screen.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a computer readable medium containing a program which when executed performs an operation generally comprising receiving a selection of a data standard to be applied to a first set of query results displayed in a Graphical User Interface GUI screen the data standard being selected from at least two different data standards wherein the data standard defines a desired quality of data with respect to at least one field included in the first set of query results. The operation further comprises determining by an analysis routine a second set of query results in response to receiving the selection of the data standard the second set of query results being in accordance with the selected data standard and wherein the second set of query results is a subset of the first set of query results and identifying the second set of results of the query in the GUI screen.

Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a system generally comprising at least a memory and a processor. The system further comprises a data abstraction model providing a definition for each of a plurality of logical fields and a data standard definition for each of the logical fields wherein the data standard definitions include at least two different data standard definitions defined on the basis of respective criteria a run time component for generating from an abstract query referencing at least one of the logical fields a query consistent with a particular physical representation of data and an analysis routine for determining a set of results of the query that are consistent with a selected data standard and identifying the respective set of results in a Graphical User Interface GUI displaying query results.

The present invention is generally related to data processing and more specifically to processing data retrieved from a database. A GUI screen displaying query results may provide for the selection of a data standard to be applied to the query results. An analysis routine may identify specific results that comport with a selected data standard and visually identify the specific query results that comport with the selected data standard.

In the following reference is made to embodiments of the invention. However it should be understood that the invention is not limited to specific described embodiments. Instead any combination of the following features and elements whether related to different embodiments or not is contemplated to implement and practice the invention. Furthermore in various embodiments the invention provides numerous advantages over the prior art. However although embodiments of the invention may achieve advantages over other possible solutions and or over the prior art whether or not a particular advantage is achieved by a given embodiment is not limiting of the invention. Thus the following aspects features embodiments and advantages are merely illustrative and are not considered elements or limitations of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim s . Likewise reference to the invention shall not be construed as a generalization of any inventive subject matter disclosed herein and shall not be considered to be an element or limitation of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim s .

One embodiment of the invention is implemented as a program product for use with a computer system such as for example the network environment shown in and described below. The program s of the program product defines functions of the embodiments including the methods described herein and can be contained on a variety of computer readable media. Illustrative computer readable media include but are not limited to i information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as CD ROM disks readable by a CD ROM drive ii alterable information stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard disk drive and iii information conveyed to a computer by a communications medium such as through a computer or telephone network including wireless communications. The latter embodiment specifically includes information downloaded from the Internet and other networks. Such computer readable media when carrying computer readable instructions that direct the functions of the present invention represent embodiments of the present invention.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention may be part of an operating system or a specific application component program module object or sequence of instructions. The computer program of the present invention typically is comprised of a multitude of instructions that will be translated by the native computer into a machine readable format and hence executable instructions. Also programs are comprised of variables and data structures that either reside locally to the program or are found in memory or on storage devices. In addition various programs described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature that follows is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The client computer includes a Central Processing Unit CPU connected via a bus to a memory storage an input device an output device and a network interface device . The input device can be any device to give input to the client computer . For example a keyboard keypad light pen touch screen track ball or speech recognition unit audio video player and the like could be used. The output device can be any device to give output to the user e.g. any conventional display screen. Although shown separately from the input device the output device and input device could be combined. For example a display screen with an integrated touch screen a display with an integrated keyboard or a speech recognition unit combined with a text speech converter could be used.

The network interface device may be any entry exit device configured to allow network communications between the client computers and server via the network . For example the network interface device may be a network adapter or other network interface card NIC .

Storage is preferably a Direct Access Storage Device DASD . Although it is shown as a single unit it could be a combination of fixed and or removable storage devices such as fixed disc drives floppy disc drives tape drives removable memory cards or optical storage. The memory and storage could be part of one virtual address space spanning multiple primary and secondary storage devices.

The memory is preferably a random access memory sufficiently large to hold the necessary programming and data structures of the invention. While memory is shown as a single entity it should be understood that memory may in fact comprise a plurality of modules and that memory may exist at multiple levels from high speed registers and caches to lower speed but larger DRAM chips.

Illustratively the memory contains an operating system . Illustrative operating systems which may be used to advantage include Linux Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds in the US other countries or both and Microsoft s Windows . More generally any operating system supporting the functions disclosed herein may be used.

Memory is also shown containing a query program which when executed by CPU provides support for issuing queries to server . In one embodiment the query program may include a web based Graphical User Interface GUI which allows the user to display Hyper Text Markup Language HTML information. The GUI may be configured to allow a user to create a query issue the query against a server and display the results of the query. More generally however the query program may be a GUI based program capable of rendering any information transferred between the client computer and the server .

The server may by physically arranged in a manner similar to the client computer . Accordingly the server is shown generally comprising at least one CPU memory and a storage device coupled with one another by a bus . Memory may be a random access memory sufficiently large to hold the necessary programming and data structures that are located on server .

In one embodiment server may be a logically partitioned system wherein each logical partition of the system is assigned one or more resources for example CPUs and memory available in server . Accordingly server may generally be under the control of one or more operating systems shown residing in memory . Each logical partition of server may be under the control of one of the operating systems . Examples of the operating system include IBM OS 400 UNIX Microsoft Windows and the like. More generally any operating system capable of supporting the functions described herein may be used.

The memory further includes one or more applications and an abstract query interface . The applications and the abstract query interface are software products comprising a plurality of instructions that are resident at various times in various memory and storage devices in the computer system . When read and executed by one or more processors in the server the applications and the abstract query interface cause the computer system to perform the steps necessary to execute steps or elements embodying the various aspects of the invention.

The applications and more generally any requesting entity including the operating system are configured to issue queries against a database shown in storage . The database is representative of any collection of data regardless of the particular physical representation. By way of illustration the database may be organized according to a relational schema accessible by SQL queries or according to an XML schema accessible by XML queries . However the invention is not limited to a particular schema and contemplates extension to schemas presently unknown. As used herein the term schema generically refers to a particular arrangement of data.

In one embodiment the queries issued by the applications are defined according to an application query specification included with each application . The queries issued by the applications may be predefined i.e. hard coded as part of the applications or may be generated in response to input e.g. user input . In either case the queries referred to herein as abstract queries are composed using logical fields defined by the abstract query interface . In particular the logical fields used in the abstract queries are defined by a data abstraction model of the abstract query interface . The abstract queries are executed by a runtime component which transforms the abstract queries into a form consistent with the physical representation of the data contained in the database . The application query specification and the abstract query interface are further described with reference to .

In one embodiment elements of a query are specified by a user through a graphical user interface GUI . The content of the GUIs may be generated by the application s . In a particular embodiment the GUI content is hypertext markup language HTML content which may be rendered on the client computer systems with query program . For example the server may respond to requests to access a database which illustratively resides on the server . Incoming client requests for data from the database may invoke an application . When executed by the processor the application may cause the server to perform the steps or elements embodying the various aspects of the invention including accessing database .

As illustrated in application may also include an analysis routine . Analysis routine may determine the specific query results displayed at a client computer . For example query results may be displayed on a GUI screen associated with query program . The GUI screen displaying query results may be configured to receive user input for example a selection of a particular data standard for the query results. Query program may invoke analysis routine in response to receiving a selection of a data standard. Analysis routine may determine query results that comport with the selected data standard and cause the comporting query results to be identified in the GUI screen. The GUI screen for displaying query results and the analysis routine are discussed in greater detail below.

The logical fields specified by the application query specification and used to compose the abstract query are defined by the data abstraction model . In general the data abstraction model may expose information as a set of logical fields that may be used within a query e.g. the abstract query issued by the application to specify criteria for data selection and specify the form of result data returned from a query operation. The logical fields may be defined independently of the underlying data representation being used in the database thereby allowing queries to be formed that are loosely coupled to the underlying data representation.

In one embodiment of the invention data abstraction model may include a query attribute selection to determine a data standard of data. The data standard may determine a quality of the data. For example one or more data standards may be defined in the data abstraction model to distinguish data stored in a database based on one or more criteria. Exemplary data standards may include for example gold standard silver standard no standard and the like. In one embodiment gold standard data may be highly desirable data due to for example high reliability and accuracy of the data.

For example gold standard data may represent test data collected in a highly controlled environment and or using superior equipment and the like. Therefore determining whether data is gold may involve determining whether the data falls within a definition of gold data. For example the definition of gold data may include environmental conditions equipment types time of data collection and the like.

Silver standard data may be less desirable than gold standard data because of for example the lack of a controlled test environment during data collection use of inferior equipment and the like. Accordingly silver data may be data that does not qualify a gold data. In some embodiments silver data may be data that satisfies a definition of silver data. The definition of silver data may include for example environmental conditions test equipment time of data collection and the like.

In one embodiment no standard data may be data for which criteria establishing the data standard are not available. For example no standard data may be data for which one or more definitional criteria for example environmental conditions test equipment time of collection and the like is not available. Alternatively no standard data may be selected if a particular data standard is not desired. For example in one embodiment a user may desire to view results irrespective of the data standard. Accordingly the user may select no standard as the data standard. While gold standard data silver standard data and no standard data are described herein one skilled in the art will recognize that any number of levels of data standards may be implemented.

Furthermore any reasonable criteria for establishing data standards may be implemented. In one embodiment one or more values of particular fields in database may establish the data standard. For example it may be desirable to consider test data collected in a particular temperature range or using a particular measuring device. Accordingly the definition of gold standard data in the data abstraction model may include the particular temperature range and or the particular measuring device. Data falling outside the temperature range and or data collected with an inferior measuring device may be classified as silver standard data. Data for which the temperature or equipment data is unavailable may be classified as no standard data.

In one embodiment of the invention the date of data collection may determine the data standard. For example a hospital may induct new test equipment for data collection on a particular date. The new test equipment may be superior to previously used equipment. Accordingly data collected after the date of induction of the new test equipment may be classified as gold standard data. Data collected using the previously used equipment may be classified as silver standard data.

The access methods may associate logical field names to a particular physical data representation See in a database . By way of illustration two data representations are shown in an XML data representation and a relational data representation . However the physical data representation indicates that any other data representation known or unknown is contemplated. In one embodiment a single data abstraction module may contain field specifications with associated access methods for two or more physical data representations . In an alternative embodiment a separate data abstraction module may be provided for each separate data representation .

Any number of access methods is contemplated depending upon the number of different types of logical fields to be supported. In one embodiment access methods for simple fields filtered fields and composed fields are provided. For example field specifications for Field A exemplify a simple field access method . Simple fields are mapped directly to a particular entity in the underlying physical data representation e.g. a field mapped to a given database table and column . By way of illustration the simple field access method shown in maps the logical field name FirstName to a column named f name in a table named Test Table as illustrated.

The field specification for Field X exemplifies a filtered field access method . Filtered fields identify an associated physical entity and provide rules used to define a particular subset of items within the physical data representation. For example the filtered field access method may map the logical field name to a physical entity in a column named TestVal in a table named Test Table and may define a filter for the test values. For example in one embodiment the filter may define a numerical range in which the test values may be deemed valid.

A composed field access method may also be provided to compute a logical field from one or more physical fields using an expression supplied as part of the access method definition. In this way information which does not exist in the underlying data representation may be computed. For example a sales tax field may be composed by multiplying a sales price field by a sales tax rate.

It is contemplated that the formats for any given data type e.g. dates decimal numbers etc. of the underlying data may vary. Accordingly in one embodiment the field specifications may include a type attribute which reflects the format of the underlying data. However in another embodiment the data format of the field specifications is different from the associated underlying physical data in which case an access method is responsible for returning data in the proper format assumed by the requesting entity.

Thus the access method must know what format of data is assumed i.e. according to the logical field as well as the actual format of the underlying physical data. The access method may then convert the underlying physical data into the format of the logical field. By way of example the field specifications of the data abstraction model shown in are representative of logical fields mapped to data represented in the relational data representation . However other instances of the data extraction model map logical fields to other physical data representations such as XML.

A field specification may include one or more standard specifications for identifying a data standard. The standard specifications may map to a standard specification field of data abstraction model . For example in Field X may include a value standard and or a date standard . Value standard may map to a value standard specification field Y and the date standard may map to a date standard specification field Z.

The standard specification fields may include data standard definitions. Illustratively value standard field Y may define a data standard based on one or more values in particular fields of database . For example in one embodiment the data standard may depend on a temperature at which data is collected determined by a temperature field of database as discussed above. Accordingly standard specification Field Y may define a first temperature range defining gold standard data a second temperature range defining silver standard data and the like as illustrated in . The temperature ranges establishing the data standard may be defined in the criteria of value standard field Y.

One skilled in the art will recognize that any number and types of criteria may establish a particular data standard. In other words in some embodiments the data standard may be established by a plurality of fields of database . For example a particular data standard for example the gold standard may be defined based on temperature pressure the type of equipment used and the like. Furthermore any type of field for example numerical alphabetical Boolean time date type field may be included in the definition of a particular data standard.

In one embodiment of the invention a date standard field Z may establish a data standard based on the date of measurement of data. For example in data standard field Z of gold standard data is defined as data collected after the year 2000. Silver standard data is defined as data collected between the years 1990 and 2000. Data collected prior to the year 1990 is defined as null or no standard data.

In one embodiment of the invention the definitions of the date standard field may be associated with the induction of superior equipment for collecting data. For example a hospital may induct a superior blood pressure monitor in the year 2001. Accordingly data collected after the year 2000 may be more accurate and more desirable for analysis and research. Therefore data collected after the year 2000 may be defined as gold standard data. Blood pressure data collected prior between 1990 and 2000 may have been collected with older and less desirable equipment. Accordingly such data may be defined as silver standard data. The nature of equipment used to collect blood pressure data prior to 1990 may not be known. Therefore such data may be defined as no standard data.

While definition of date standard data based on the induction of new equipment is described herein one skilled in the art will recognize that any other event or combination of events may establish the data standard based on date. For example a hospital may induct an improved procedure to collect patient data. The time range of data collection based on a particular procedure may define a particular data standard.

In one embodiment of the invention creating a query may involve providing a graphical user interface for defining the query. For example a user may launch a query program in client computer to construct a query. Query program may display a plurality of graphical user interface GUI screens to aid the user in constructing a query to retrieve desired data from database . The graphical user interface screen may include a combination of text boxes drop down menus selection buttons check boxes and the like to create query conditions.

Output categories may also contain a list of output fields that may define particular data displayed in the results of a query. Output field selection may be performed by clicking check boxes associated with a listed field. For example in checkboxes are provided for selecting Last Name First Name Identification number ID Address Telephone number and Clinic number test 1 value and the like. While check boxes are described herein one skilled in the art will recognize that any reasonable means for selecting the output fields such as a drop down boxes text boxes etc may be used.

Output categories may contain a sort drop down box to select a reference field for sorting. Output fields may be provided in the dropdown box. In some embodiments the fields reflected in the sort box may be dynamically updated to reflect only those fields selected by the user. For simplicity illustrates the selection of only one field for sorting. However one skilled in the art will recognize that results may be provided using different sorting criteria for multiple fields. Therefore GUI may include appropriate GUI elements to receive input related to such multiple fields and sorting criteria.

GUI may also contain a plurality of condition categories each category having an associated radio button that the user may select. The condition categories shown include demographics Tests and Lab Results Diagnosis and Reports . As illustrated each field has an associated field into which a value may be selected or input. Some fields are drop down menu s while some may be text boxes. In the latter case the fields may have associated browse buttons to facilitate user selection of valid values.

Once the condition categories and values have been selected the user may click on the Next button . Clicking the Next button may cause the GUI to render the next appropriate interface necessary to continue the process of adding a condition. In this manner the user may be presented with a series of graphical user interfaces necessary to add a condition. By way of example assume that the user has selected the demographic condition category and the Age value from the drop down menu. Upon pressing the Next button the user may be presented with a second GUI shown in . GUI may comprise a comparison operator drop down menu from which a user may select a comparison operator e.g. 

Similarly if the user had selected Hemoglobin Test in the Tests and Lab Results dropdown GUI in may be displayed to input desired search criteria for the selected test. The upper portion of the GUI includes a drop down menu from which to select a comparison operator and a plurality of regular buttons illustratively for for defining a value. The user may search on a range of values for the selected test by checking the Range checkbox . The user must then specifying a comparison operator from the drop down menu and an associated value by selecting one of the radio buttons is . Once the search criteria for GUI have been entered the user may press the OK button .

The FROM clause of the exemplary query may determine the particular database from which results are retrieved. For example the results are derived from the Patients database in the exemplary query above. The database from which the results are derived may be determined by user selection of the database in GUI screen .

The WHERE clause of the exemplary query establishes query conditions. For example the Age 50 condition may be defined by a user using GUI screen and the Hemoglobin Test 30 condition may be defined by the user using GUI screen .

In one embodiment of the invention the exemplary query described above may be an abstract query. Accordingly each field of the exemplary query for example patient ID last name test 1 age hemoglobin test and the like may have an associated field specification see in data abstraction model . The abstract query may be executed by the runtime component which transforms the abstract queries into a form consistent with the physical representation of the data contained in the database based on data abstraction model .

In one embodiment of the invention run time component may return the results of a query along with data required to determine a data standard for the query results to an application . For example an abstract query processed by run time component may reference a field X see . In response to determining that field X includes a value standard and or date standard run time component may return data from one or more fields associated with determining a data standard along with one or more conditions for determining the data standard to application .

For example in field X includes a value standard and date standard . Date standard refers to a date standard specification field Z. Accordingly run time component may return the conditions associated with determining the data standard in field Z along with the date of data collection for each query result. Similarly value standard refers to a value standard specification field Y. Therefore run time component may return the data standard determination criteria along with any data that may be required for determining the data standard based on the criteria. For example criteria may include a reference to a temperature field. Accordingly run time component may return one or more values in a temperature field associated with each query result to application .

Application may be configured to cause query results to be displayed in a GUI screen at a client computer . For example query program may generate a GUI screen and display query results in the GUI screen according to input received from an application . illustrates an exemplary GUI screen displaying results for the exemplary query described above. As illustrated in GUI includes at least one or more fields requested to be displayed by the exemplary query. For example GUI may display a patient ID column last name column and a test 1 column associated with fields identified in the SELECT clause of the exemplary query.

In one embodiment GUI may display one or more additional fields associated with the results of the query for example first names included in column . In some embodiments the additional fields may be associated with one or more conditions of the exemplary query. For example age column and hemoglobin test column may be displayed as a result of the age and hemoglobin conditions identified in the WHERE clause of the exemplary query.

In one embodiment of the invention one or more fields associated with determining a data standard may be displayed in GUI screen . For example a query may refer to a field for example specification field X of . Field X may include a date standard . Accordingly a date column may be included in GUI to display a date associated with each query result. Similarly if field X includes a value standard one or more fields associated with criteria in a value standard specification field Y may be included as a column in GUI screen .

In one embodiment of the invention application may be configured to initially display all results associated with a query at a client computer . For example GUI screen displays all results for the exemplary query described above. GUI screen may include a data standard selection tool to facilitate selection of a data standard for the query results. Upon receiving a selection of a data standard the query results displayed in GUI screen may be modified to reflect only those query results that comport with the selected data standard.

Data standard selection tool in is shown as a collection of radio buttons and checkboxes. For example radio buttons and may be provided to select a value standard or a date standard as illustrated. If the value standard radio button is selected the user may be allowed to enter the desired value based data standard. For example check boxes are provided to facilitate user selection of a value based data standard. On the other hand if the date standard radio button is selected the user may be allowed to select check boxes to select the appropriate date based data standard.

While radio buttons and check boxes are disclosed herein one skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention are not limited to the particular implementation in GUI . More generally any reasonable combination of text areas drop down boxes buttons and the like may be implemented to facilitate user selection of a desired data standard. In some embodiment the user may be allowed to select a plurality of data standards. For example a user may select check boxes for gold and silver data standards. Accordingly data meeting the definition of gold standard data and data meeting the definition of silver standard data may be displayed in the results of the query.

In a particular embodiment of the invention data standard selection tool may be a slider tool. The slider tool may provide a slider bar configured to slide along a spectrum of data standards displayed in GUI screen . The position of the slider bar relative to the displayed data standards may determine the results displayed in GUI screen .

The selection of a data standard in GUI screen may be transmitted to an analysis routine of an application . Analysis routine may be configured to determine the specific query results that comport with the selected data standard. For example analysis routine may use the conditions for determining the data standard and the data necessary for determining the data standard received from run time component to determine whether a particular query result meets the selected data standard.

For example a user may select radio button in GUI screen to identify a date based data standard. Subsequently the user may select checkbox to indicate a desire to view gold standard data. The user selection of the data standard may be transmitted to analysis routine . As discussed earlier during query execution application may receive the data and conditions necessary for determining a data standard for each query result. For example application may receive the conditions for determining the date standard illustrated in field Z of and a date value for each query result illustrated in column of .

Analysis routine may determine the specific query results that are in accordance with the selected date standard using the data and conditions necessary for determining the data standard provided by the run time component. The specific query results may be transmitted to query program at client computer . Accordingly query program may be configured to modify results displayed in GUI screen such that only results in accordance with the selected data standard are displayed.

Referring back to date based gold standard data may be defined as data collected after the year 2000. Accordingly user selection of date based gold standard may cause only those results for which the date in date column is after the year 2000. illustrates an exemplary GUI screen displaying gold standard data for the exemplary query. As illustrated in only those query results that meet the date based gold standard i.e. query results for dates later than the year 2000 are displayed.

In one embodiment of the invention query results that are not in accordance with the selected data standard are hidden thereby displaying only the query results that are in accordance with the selected data standard. However any reasonable means for visually identifying data in accordance with the selected data standard for example different colored highlighting may also be used.

In one embodiment of the invention data standard selection tool may also include one or more tools for further narrowing a set of results. For example data standard selection tool may include a tool for narrowing results based on data in one or more fields for example age column displayed in GUI . Accordingly data standard selection tool may include for example a tool for identifying an age range for the query results to further narrow the results.

In one embodiment of the invention each field displayed in GUI may have an associated data standard. Furthermore it may be desirable to select a different data standard for each respective of the respective fields. For example a researcher may desire to select gold standard data for a field that is most significant to research and apply a lesser standard to a field that is not as significant to the research. Accordingly data standard selection tool may allow selection of a data standard for each field for which a data standard may be defined.

By allowing abstraction of data standards and providing a selection to define a data standard that may be applied to query results embodiments of the invention allow a more efficient retrieval of desired data from a database. Furthermore tedious manual data cleansing of query results is obviated by limiting the results of the query to data that comports with a specified data standard.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

