---

title: Personalized page modules
abstract: A system, a method, and a user interface for providing content by using several modules for displaying the content within a single page. A first module within the page is for presenting content from a first source and a second module is for presenting content from a second source. The first module is stacked on top of the second module within a window for presenting the page. The content presented by the first module is independent of the content presented by the second module such that a user interacts with the content of each module independently and without the need for navigation to a location external to the single page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08302013&OS=08302013&RS=08302013
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08302013
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070816
---
The present invention is related to the field of online content and is more specifically directed to personalized page modules.

Computer and computing device usage increases each year. Much of the increase in usage is spurred by internetworking of devices such as by using the Internet. With each new user and or site coming online the amount of information that is stored and accessible by computer systems around the world further increases. At the same time the number variation and sophistication of computer users escalates and user expectations also rise regarding the functionality of tools interfaces and the user experience.

The Internet and other networks interconnect computers and computing devices to allow for transport of data over network connections. Computers and computing devices are often organized into client server relationships. One type of server is a web server and an example of a client is a web client such as a personal computer running a web browser program. Some web servers provide portal services that collect information from various sources and upon request generate a portal page for the web client. An example of such a portal page is at the web site www.yahoo.com provided by Yahoo Inc. This web site also has facilities that support personalized pages. See for example my.yahoo.com.

Web servers typically service requests from web clients by using a system of protocols. In response to requests received the web server returns data responses. The hyper text transfer protocol HTTP is an example of a conventionally used protocol. One or more web clients issue requests directed at a particular web server address for a page represented by a universal resource locator URL in the request. A server responsive to the particular address responds with data such as a web page that is displayed or with another type of data set.

Conventional technology used for the web has limitations. Presently the web client typically employs a browser application that is capable of presenting to a user all or part of a web page in a user interface. The browser application further accepts user input to interact with the web page and or web site. Web browsers are commonly used by users to navigate within a single web page and across several web pages. Web browsers often provide functionality in addition to presenting web pages and accepting user input related to web pages. For example web pages often include executable program elements that are executed by a web browser upon receipt of a web page. These elements include a number of variations of application program interfaces API .

Browser applications provide an interface for users to receive and or interact with content via the Internet or the web. A browser application generally resides on a user s computer. The browser application includes a window for displaying content retrieved from web sites via the web or Internet. The browser application may also include one or more application toolbars. Web browsers provide information in the form of a web page which is produced by interpreting a text document encoded by using hyper text markup language HTML . Modern web page user interfaces typically employ sophisticated application programming interfaces variations of JAVA Flash and other scripts and means of performing increasingly complex functions for a user and a user interface.

As mentioned above current application and or interface technologies have certain limitations. Moreover despite the availability of vast amounts of information from numerous sources not all information on the Internet or even regarding a single topic is relevant useful and or meaningful to every user all the time. When users are barraged with too much information too many choices irrelevant and or disorganized content humans and machine systems become overloaded thereby diminishing the usefulness of otherwise powerful information tools.

A user interface for providing content includes several modules for displaying the content within a single page. A first module within the page is for presenting content from a first source and a second module is for presenting content from a second source. The first module is stacked on top of the second module within a window for presenting the page. The content presented by the first module is independent of the content presented by the second module such that a user interacts with the content of each module independently and without the need for navigation to a location external to the single page.

The user interface preferably includes a horizontal scroll bar for the first module and additional content is presented through the first module by using the horizontal scroll bar. The first module has a variety of shapes or sizes during the user interaction with the first module and the second module automatically adjusts to accommodate the shape and or size of the first module. In a particular implementation the dimensions of the first module resize to maximize the edge to edge horizontal view within a browser window. When the scroll bar reaches an edge of the content presented in the module the content wraps to allow the user to continue scrolling or alternatively when the scroll bar reaches an edge of the content presented in the module an option for more content is presented such that the user is discretely presented content that is sourced infinitely. The option for more content includes a click to reload button a search function or another suitable means for obtaining and presenting additional content.

The sources for the modules typically include feeds from a variety of sources. Preferably a second feed for the second module is from a different source than a first feed. The modules include a state for a user of the interface to change a feed to one or more modules in the page. Embodiments of the invention include a zoom mode for reordering the modules. The zoom mode presents a full page view to the user. In the full page view the layout of the page and modules is more readily ascertained by a user. The full page view has icons for indicating the direction of motion for reordering the modules and the user advantageously reorders the modules in the page by using a drag and drop motion based on the indicators provided by the icons. In this manner the location of each module is determined by the user.

Modules are optionally added or removed and the presence of each module is determined by the user. Moreover the content feeds and other features of each module are customizable such that the configuration of each module is determined by the user.

Example module types include an advertisement module a quotes module for presenting quotes that are important to the user a stock tracking module a photo module configured for retrieving content from a photograph site such as flickr.com. A social content module is configured for retrieving content from a site where the content on the site is socially determined by a ranking system such as digg.com for example. Another type of module is the gallery module that includes different templates that are configured for addition or removal to or from a page. For instance in one embodiment if a template in the gallery is clicked the modules within the page slide upward and a new module based on the template is inserted onto the page of modules. These and additional modules are further described below.

Each module preferably includes several states such as for example a collapsed unrolled state a collapsed rolled state an expanded unrolled state an expanded rolled state a customization state an announcement bar state and a hidden or temporary remove state. The collapsed unrolled state increases the user s breadth of view of the modules on the page and reduces the amount of detailed information for the user such that the content presented on the page and in this state does not overwhelm the user. In this unrolled state a set of tools is preferably hidden from the user. The set of tools provides for in module navigation such as by including the horizontal scroll bar and or selections for edit and remove. This format is referred to as just in time and or on demand content. Moreover the content that is presented on the page and within each module is based on the specification of the user.

The collapsed rolled state is for presenting to a user a set of tools that appears when a cursor is positioned over a module in the unrolled state. The expanded unrolled state is for presenting additional content to the user such as images video and or audio multimedia clips text in the form of captions and the like. Preferably the additional content is presented within the stacked module page format without drastic or unsightly changes to the interface such as without pop ups frames and or new windows for example.

The expanded rolled state is for presenting a set of tools that are typically previously hidden in the unrolled state. As indicated above the expanded rolled state comprises a detailed view that increases depth of presented information. The set of tools optionally includes multimedia tools in addition to the navigational tools such as for example an autoplay feature and or a button for returning to a collapsed state. Another state is the announcement bar state that requires minimal space for presenting content within the page. Preferably the modules are removable as part of the user customizability feature. However some modules include a temporary remove state such that modules in this state reappear within the user interface at a predetermined time. For instance an advertisement module is advantageously placed in a temporary remove state by a user such that the user is allowed to control content while permitting unobtrusive advertising to coexist with user customized content.

The configuration state is typically reached via a user selection in a rolled state for transitioning to the configuration state. When a module is selected for configuration the selected module appears to flip in place on the page such that the user is presented with an edit mode for the module without altering the appearance of the other modules within the page of modules. In one implementation the configuration state appears to be located on the back of a module selected for editing and or user customization. The configuration state usually has a specific color to indicate the state of the module. The configuration state includes an option to save changes and an option to exit the configuration state. When the option to exit is selected the configuration state of some embodiments appears to rotate in place to return to the state from which the configuration state was selected. Then the changes made for the module are presented in place where the module lies on the page.

A method of providing content includes using a browser to connect to a server and performing a check. The check includes a system check for a specific component and or a user identification check for a specific user profile. Based on the check the method provides a set of modules that form a page of modules. The method customizes a first module in the set of modules and saves the customization. The method executes a function provided by the module.

Sometimes the set of modules includes a default set of modules such as for a new user and or a new browser connection. Alternatively the provided set includes a saved set of modules that is provided based on a user of the browser by using a login ID a cookie or another identifier. The method edits the customization at various times. The method provides by using the first module in the set of modules content located external to a storage location for the page of modules. Preferably when the externally located content is updated the content provided by one or more of the modules is automatically updated. The method reorders a module in the set of modules to alter the appearance of the page. The method selectively adds additional modules such as a second module removes modules such as the first module and or temporarily hides or removes modules then later presents the temporarily removed module within the page at a later time. Similarly content navigation and or other tools are hidden at various times.

The method vertically scrolls along a y axis of the page to view particular modules within the page of modules particularly when the number of modules extends beyond a single page view. The method horizontally scrolls along an x axis within a module such as for navigation within the module. Preferably the other modules within the page are unaffected by the horizontal scrolling within the module being horizontally scrolled. The method optionally adds content to the first module thereby increasing the available amount of horizontal scrolling. The method wraps the content within a module or alternatively provides an option for additional content when a limitation of the horizontal scrolling is reached.

The modules typically each have several states. The states include one or more of a collapsed unrolled state a collapsed rolled state an expanded unrolled state an expanded rolled state a customization state an announcement bar state and or a temporary remove state. The modules selectively include various types such as a header module a daily quote module an advertisement module a photo module a stock module a social content module a spotlight type module a popularity type module a movie module a news module a gallery module a suggestion or targeting module and a footer module. Each type of module typically includes specific details and features based on the content for the module. For instance when the module comprises a news module the executing typically involves requesting a response from an RSS feed when the module comprises a social bookmarking module the executing further involves javascript object notation or when the module comprises a photographic module the executing further involves a REST type API. Additional modules are contemplated in embodiments of the invention. Additional examples include modules for movies instant messaging and email. In a specific implementation performing the check comprises checking for a Flash component and the executing step involves a Flash script.

A method of configuring a page positions a cursor over a particular location within the page and thereby reveals a set of tools for configuring the page. The method selects a tool and transitions to one or more modes for customization. One mode includes a reordering mode. When this mode is selected the method zooms out the page to present a full page view of the page. From the full page view the method selects a first module and moves the selected first module by using the cursor. Preferably using the cursor comprises a drag and drop operation. When a first module is selected within the full page view the method preferably provides a visual cue that illustrates the possible directions of movement of the selected first module for reordering. When the first module is moved the method automatically adjusts a second module that is near to where the first module is moved.

A system for providing content includes a client device a server a browser application a user interface a page several modules and a first module among the several modules. The first module includes several states. The client device typically includes the browser application which is used to couple to the server. The server provides the page and the modules to a user. The user advantageously uses and customizes the page modules and states for greater relevance and or greater usability to the user as described above. Preferably the modules are presented within a single page and each user interaction within the single page comprises a granular event. Accordingly some embodiments include systems and methods of recording for the single page the granular events. For instance users are advantageously profiled and or behaviorally targeted based on the granular event recording. The granular events include a mouse over event and or a click within the page.

In the following description numerous details are set forth for purpose of explanation. However one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the invention may be practiced without the use of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the description of the invention with unnecessary detail.

Embodiments of the invention include architectures for presenting information including web pages. The web pages preferably include aggregate and or full page views for presenting breadth of information while reducing irrelevant or untimely information. These embodiments are referred to herein as collapsed views or states. Further embodiments include expanded views or states that provide additional depth of information. The views and information are provided through a user customizable interface. Preferably the interface is segmented into discrete modules. The modules are conveniently added edited or customized reordered hidden and or removed. Moreover the interface has advantageous features for the selective presentation of content. The content of these embodiments and the tools for obtaining and or customizing the content is said to be just in time and or on demand.

For instance within each of the expanded and collapsed states some implementations include a roll over state. This state is achieved by positioning a cursor over a selected module by using a pointing device such as a mouse track ball track pad or other device. When the roll over state is achieved certain previously hidden information and or navigation tools appear for use by the user. Some examples of the information and or tools that optionally appear include click buttons and or sliding mechanisms for scrolling. Particular implementations include a horizontal scrolling means for the selective display of a variable amount of content. The content is optionally user configured and or automatically configured. For instance the content often includes data that is crawled from several sources by using application programming interfaces API s and or really simple syndication RSS feeds.

Due to the structure of some of these embodiments certain advantages are implemented regarding on page analytics. For instance granular event counting and or recording is advantageously achieved for data collection behavioral profiling and or targeting. These page analytics are optionally collected and or processed in conjunction with conventional click stream data.

As mentioned above embodiments of the invention include a framework that houses each content type systematically as modules. The modules are edited added removed rearranged reordered and or closed to create a nearly unlimited number of combinations. Moreover as mentioned above each module typically includes a plurality of states. The foregoing and additional features are further described in relation to particular examples.

Preferably the content provided by each module has particular relevance for a specific user. Further the content is generally stored at an external location to the page . In these cases the content is advantageously retrieved and or presented in an aggregated fashion and has additional advantageous features such as automatic updating and or organization by a desirable characteristic such as by relevance popularity and or recency for example. For instance the social content module includes articles that are community determined by voting or another means. Preferably the content is obtained in an automated manner from an external site. The web site digg.com is an example of a social content web site.

One of ordinary skill recognizes that the illustrated modules are exemplary in both variety and number and further recognizes additional modules and combinations of modules. For instance some implementations include a social bookmarking module for presenting to a user a set of most recent and or most used bookmarks. Preferably the information regarding the bookmarks is stored at a location and or web site that are external to the social bookmarking module. The web site del.icio.us is an example of such a site. Advantageously the social bookmarking module provides and or stores a set of bookmarks that are of interest to the user. Regardless of the particular content presented the module provides a customizable interface for the client without the need for navigation to or at an external sites and without the need for additional customization at another location through a different interface.

Additional examples of the various possible modules are further described herein and by reference to the accompanying figures. For instance a discussion of the quote of the day module follows in relation to the stock module by reference to the spotlight type module in relation to the photo module is described by reference to the movie module in conjunction with the news module in relation to and the popularity type module is of various types such as for example a news photos module which is illustrated in .

Preferably certain modules within the page have a user selectable customization state. further illustrates a module configuration and or customization state . Most modules in the page are user configurable however the ad module is preferably not user configurable. In an embodiment the user selects the module for configuration by using a button within the user interface for the module. When the button of some embodiments is clicked the selected module transitions to another state by using an animated sequence within the user interface.

For instance when a user selects a particular module for customization the selected module of a particular implementation transforms in place. In some implementations the module appears to rotate in place without affecting the adjacent modules. To a user the customization state intuitively appears to be present on the back of the module selected for customization. Further some implementations display the customization state in a particular color such as green. These implementations provide a more fluid and contextual experience to a user who is customizing a single module within a page or multiple modules on the page.

The particular customization state is for the news module of . As shown in this figure the customization state for the news module includes guided settings for source feeds and for display preferences. The source feeds illustrated include World News Local News Tech News and a selection to include additional types of news. One of ordinary skill will recognize additional news source feeds that are alternatively included or excluded from the module. In the ad module and movie module of are removed or alternatively hidden from view. As shown in the remaining modules automatically adjust to reshape resize and or provide additional content to the available space.

Web content syndication is an increasingly popular way for content providers to draw attention and visitors to web pages or sites. Using content syndication technologies such as really simple syndication RSS a content provider advantageously creates an XML summary of the site s content. The summary which typically includes a number of headlines having various segments such as a title a link to the content and a brief description is stored on the originating site s web server as an RSS feed. The RSS feed is manually created and updated such as by editing the XML for example or automatically such as by using various scripts to periodically scan the site and update the XML. Operators of web sites or individual users conventionally subscribe a page to the RSS feed by including a reference to the desired RSS feed in the HTML or other source code for the subscribed page. Some embodiments provide an intuitive user interface for potentially many and varied such subscriptions all on a single page without the need for navigation to additional pages.

When the subscribed content is displayed such as through one or more modules the RSS feed which is maintained on the originating site s server is accessed and the title of each item in the summary is displayed on the subscribed page as a link. Conventionally a viewer of the subscribing page clicks on any of these links to view the item at the originating site. According to embodiments of the invention a user preferably aggregates those RSS feeds from all of the websites the user wishes onto a single master page that the user controls and views in a consolidated format without the need for additional navigation tools and or programming effort. By viewing the user s customized master page the user conveniently sees new content as it is added and or updated to any of the sites.

The interface to the externally located content is based on the nature of the content and or the module type. For instance the social bookmarking module optionally uses javascript object notation JSON to request and receive content form an external site such as the site del.icio.us while a module that obtains content from a photograph site such as flickr.com uses the REST API. Additional protocols and or application programming interfaces are contemplated for additional content modules such as movie and ad modules having video content map email and instant messaging modules for example.

As mentioned above embodiments of the invention employ on demand and or just in time mechanisms for providing content navigation and or other information and tools. Accordingly each module typically includes a plurality of states such as for example 1 a collapsed view unrolled state 2 a collapsed view rolled state 3 an expanded view unrolled state and 4 an expanded view rolled state. Some modules further optionally include 5 a customization state 6 an announcement bar state and or 7 a temporary remove state. Each of these states is discussed further in relation to .

In this figure the social content module is configured for receiving content from the digg.com web site. At digg.com the content is chosen by the users of the site such as by using each article s number of diggs. Hence the illustrated embodiment further presents each article s number of diggs or votes on digg.com s voting system. When in the collapsed rolled state each article s headline and number of diggs is further accompanied by a brief abstract of the article. In this manner some embodiments present just in time and or on demand content. Moreover since the module employs a feed from an external site where the content is updated based on the site s users the content preferably updates automatically within the module as it updates on the external site or within a predetermined time.

Also shown in the collapsed rolled state presents tools for adjusting the content and or obtaining additional content such as the horizontal slider and the more and fewer buttons . Some embodiments further include additional tools such as an edit button and a remove button for customizing or removing the module . The expanded states and include additional content in the form of a brief text caption relating to each headline. The customization states and allow user customization for the module and are further described below.

In particular embodiments when the edit button is clicked the module transitions to the customization state . The transition preferably occurs by an aesthetic rotation in place that makes the customization state appear on the back of the module . Some customization states have a distinct color such as green. The customization state allows adjustments to the source and display preferences of the content within the photo module . Preferably the customization of the module is performed on the page of modules with the other modules in tact such that the page layout is retained and without the need for external tools and or navigation. The photo module obtains content from an external site such as flickr.com and in this figure is more specifically configured to receive Stoneth s photo stream. However one of ordinary skill recognizes a number of photo streams and or external sites for photographic and other content.

The expanded states and preferably show a preview image from a selected movie and or a description of the movie. Alternatively the expanded states and show a brief teaser or trailer from the movie. Regardless of the particular type and format of content the presentation of content and or execution of each module preferably does not affect the other modules on the page of modules. The customization state allows the user to adjust the source and or display preferences for the movie module .

Some embodiments direct advertisement modules toward a user that are based on a particular module and or the user s interaction with the module. Optionally specific advertisements are targeted toward a user based on information regarding the user. For instance some embodiments target ad modules toward a user based on the user s interaction with the movie module . In these embodiments when a user has an affinity for a movie an ad module is advantageously delivered to the user. An example of an indicator of affinity is when the user expands a module regarding a movie such as Nacho Libre. One of ordinary skill recognizes additional indicators of affinity.

Accordingly illustrates an ad module in various states for the movie Nacho Libre. In the announcement bar state the user is presented with an invitation to obtain more detail regarding the movie. Clicking the announcement bar presents the user with a collapsed unrolled state that presents more information to the user. If the user has still further interest in the presented content then the module transitions to the collapsed rolled state by positioning a cursor over the module . As described above the rolled state reveals additional content and or tools such as a slider . Also mentioned above a large amount of information is advantageously presented by using horizontal scrolling. For instance some embodiments include image previews teaser trailer clips and or other information to entice or appease the user s interest.

Moreover by selecting and or clicking an item of content in the collapsed state embodiments of the invention preferably switch to an expanded state and to present even further information to the user. Preferably the ad module is temporarily removable and or hidden by the user but is not otherwise modified by the user.

The collapsed state advantageously has a slim footprint and reduced information such as reduced content prompts buttons sliders and or other navigation tools. Preferably certain additional content and or tools are revealed in the rolled over state. As mentioned above the rolled over state is achieved when a cursor which is represented by the pointing hand is positioned over an unrolled state. In the collapsed rolled state additional information is presented to the user such as a credit for the art work of the module and an option to edit the header module .

When clicked the edit button opens a customization mode for the header . In one implementation a tray drops down that provides a variety of templates and or art work for selection by the user. The tray includes a slider for the horizontal access of additional templates. In this figure the templates are organized such as by the month and year of the most selected headers during that time period. However one of ordinary skill recognizes alternative organizational schemes such as by month and year of submission or creation for example. The expanded state shows the content such as the artwork in additional detail. In the illustrated state the module and image content is shown in a larger format.

Some embodiments provide a default header for new users and or users who do not select a particular header. For instance some of these embodiments use as the default the most popular header from the community for the current month and year. In contrast to conventional pages that limit the user to rigid headers for particular brand advertising some embodiments permit more customizable headers that are more pertinent to the user. In some of these embodiments the user is able to submit new and or original templates and artwork by using a submit button . Optionally the submit button reveals additional content in the form of a message to the user. Submitted headers are stored in the drop down tray for use by the user and other users. Some headers are sorted and or stored in particular ways such as by a rating or voting system as further described below.

Particular embodiments include additional modules in a gallery module . The gallery module stores different types of modules or templates that are selectable by a user for inclusion or addition to the page. The module templates in the gallery are provided by a host for the customizable web pages such as Yahoo Inc. for example. Alternatively module templates are submitted and or vetted by the community for inclusion in the gallery . For instance the more aesthetic and or relevant modules preferably receive the most promotion within the gallery module . Some implementations use a rating system. Moreover developers and designers are able to locate each other through the gallery module . For instance those users interested in the World of Warcraft game can create a chat module for chatting with other Warcraft gamers and submit the module to the gallery module . Such a community based system is contemplated for the headers and artwork of the header tray described above in relation to .

As mentioned above one of ordinary skill recognizes a variety of advantageous module implementations and features. In particular advertising and other modules include four states for increasing and or reducing the presentation of the content and or tools to the user. These four states includes rolled and unrolled over states for each of a collapsed state and an expanded state. Moreover some embodiments include two additional states for improving usability and customization. The announcement bar state further provides content and or options for additional content in a space saving and unobtrusive manner. The temporary hide or remove state similarly allows for customization and unobtrusiveness. These and additional features are discussed in relation to the advertising implementations of and . Some embodiments include a search feature as part of a module or alternatively as a separate search module. The search feature of these embodiments optionally includes an autocomplete function and advantageously provides results in page and or inline with the user s interaction with the various content and the various modules on the page. This and other features are provided fluidly without the need for additional navigation or window switching. Further the search feature preferably provides a set of sponsored results that are optionally implemented with the provision of related content and or advertising.

As mentioned above additional modules are implemented in alternative embodiments. For instance a my newest module includes content compiled from a variety of sources based on novelty while an answers and or information module includes statistics and or newly posted answers to a question that is relevant to the user. Alternatively a traffic module presents information in the form of traffic conditions that are user customized such as the traffic for the user s home to work and vice versa. Similarly a weather module presents a customized user interface that includes a variety of media including maps audio video charts tables and other information within the module. Embodiments of the invention include content retrieved from partner site locations such as watched items provided by eBay Inc. a desktop or schedule provided TiVo Inc. or a short message service SMS module for sending and or receiving messages.

Some embodiments emphasize a community aspect. For instance an astrology module provides periodic information regarding events and predictions related to astrological signs and also provides for contributions and sharing among users of the module. Additional modules are recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art. Moreover despite the quantity and variation of content and modules the modules present an easy to perceive format on a single self updating page without the need for additional external navigation.

Additional module possibilities include a map module an instant messaging module and an email module. Within each module content preferences are designated by the user. Also content is alternatively pushed based on user behavior and or patterns.

Then at the step one or more default modules are provided to a new user. The default modules are typically part of a theme. The theme is optionally selected a variety of ways such as by using the user s profile by user selection randomly and or by another method. Alternatively if the user and or the machine is recognized and has previously saved modules then the saved modules are retrieved and provided to user s browser. After the modules are provided at the step the process transitions to the step where the modules provided at the step are customized. In some embodiments the modules are customized by using the editing functions described above. New or unsophisticated users may forego significant or any customization and proceed with one or more default settings and or default modules.

After zero one or more modules and or themes are customized at the step the process transitions to the step where an option to save is presented. If the customizations should be saved then the process transitions to the step where the changes are written to a storage location. Some embodiments save the customization as part of a user profile. The profile is identified by using a unique identifier such as a login ID or by using a cookie for a browser application on a certain machine. Thus when the user or machine logs in the saved customizations are retrieved from the storage location for presentation. After the step the process transitions to the step .

If the customizations should not be saved at the step then the process transitions to the step where the modules execute a variety of predefined functions. If the modules are customized some of the execution is based on the customization.

For instance news modules typically request a response from one or more RSS feeds. Social bookmarking modules might execute javascript object notation JSON such as for example to interface with an external site dedicated to such bookmarking such as de.licio.us for example. Photo modules preferably interface with an external site for photographs by using the REST API. The web site flickr.com is an example of such an external photo site. Additional modules such as movie modules and or instant messaging modules for example optionally use another API and or protocol to obtain and or update content for these various different modules.

Regardless of the particular modules and or execution at the step the process determines whether to edit the default and or customized modules. For instance embodiments of the invention alter the parameters of one or more modules. The editing is typically in response to a user request or alternatively a system request. If editing should occur at the step then the process returns to the step . Otherwise the process concludes.

As a user interface embodiments of the invention include a personalized home page that has advantages over the art. Some implementations repackage content and data types from one or more locations including external websites to create a highly relevant and quality default experience with genuinely useful customization and content options. For instance implementations of the user interface provide several functionalities over the art. One such functionality includes customizable modules while another functionality includes horizontal scrolling within a module. Moreover the length of vertical and or horizontal scrolling is adjustable and hence the amount of content presented is readily and or automatically customized and updated.

As a system level implementation embodiments of the invention operate as a traffic driver for audiences that may not otherwise use a web portal and or certain content nested therein. These embodiments serve as a vehicle for product awareness without overt heavy handed preaching and selling tactics. In this manner the number of products consumed by users of a content provider and or a portal are increased.

Embodiments of the invention have advantageous features for those interested in design and technology among others. Such users tend to already use individual sites for some of the content described above such as for example users of social content social bookmarking and or photo web sites or more specifically users of digg.com del.icio.us and or flickr.com. Some embodiments include a home page for a group of users that is preferably visited very often for obtaining highly relevant and or updated content. These embodiments are advantageously designed with default content that is both aggregated and editorial. The default content is often good enough that it does not require elaborate customization. Hence the content of some embodiments includes items that are appropriate at various times during a user interaction session particularly when the user or a group of users opens a browser. Some embodiments segment audiences to provide more targeted content and interaction models as well as appropriate advertisers.

By repurposing and or repackaging existing content via RSS and APIs in more compelling user interface modules embodiments of the invention surface content to a user who is otherwise unaware of such interesting content. Preferably these users are launched into novel parts of a site that the users have not experienced. Moreover the user interface of some embodiments allows users to experience an Internet portal such as the portal site provided by Yahoo Inc. as a content source in an environment with which the user is more comfortable without the need for external navigation. Moreover a variety of content types and quantities is delivered to the user in a single simple and intuitive user interface.

Conventional systems undesirably require users to close and move portions of and within a user interface. To counter the limitations of traditional online advertising models embodiments employ one or more of the following monetization means on a highly customizable and user friendly page.

Some implementations in addition to the advertising targeting and marketing implementations described above perform product promotion by using a specific module entitled Things We Like that preferably contains cool fun and or design oriented products. These products are preferably available through the portal such as through Yahoo Shopping for example. Thus clicking the products presented by this module passes the user through Yahoo Shopping and carries a purchase referral.

Some implementations include custom advertising tools and or modules developed for specific advertisers that have relevant content to showcase. For instance an automobile manufacturer such as Audi chooses this module implementation to present a design process. As another example a movie studio customizes a module by using a CGI process. The custom module relates to a particular movie that is being released. Advantageously new modules are created to showcase content based on an existing module template such as a Flickr photo module template for example or a completely new module that is similar to the Spotlight framework as another example.

Some implementations include tools for developing and or customizing a module and or template. For instance an advertiser has product information or services that are appropriate for presentation to a user in a module format. Hence some embodiments include tools for developing sponsored modules. For example a Netflix movie module advantageously contains new release movie information and trailers. illustrates an example of a Netflix module .

Some embodiments foster a community aspect. For instance the inclusion of new modules and types of modules is optionally community driven. In these embodiments users generate modules and submit the generated modules to the community. Only those modules approved or voted for inclusion by the community are added to the gallery of available modules. The headers of some embodiments are similarly included by using such a rating voting or other community oriented system. The spotlight module of particular implementations is another example of a community oriented approach.

While the invention has been described with reference to numerous specific details one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the examples given above often relate to news photo movie and or online media however additional and or multiple media types are contemplated as well. Thus one of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but rather is to be defined by the appended claims.

