---

title: Techniques for targeting information to users
abstract: Techniques for providing relevant information to a user based on information or documents accessed or viewed by the user. The relevant information is provided automatically to the user without requiring user input. The information provided to the user is selected from information provided by various content provider systems. The present invention uses several techniques to determine relevancy between the contents of the document accessed by the user and between the information provided by the content provider systems. The relevancy information is used to select information to be provided to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08438164&OS=08438164&RS=08438164
owner: Ricoh Co., Ltd.
number: 08438164
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070705
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 905 036 filed Jul. 12 2001 entitled TECHNIQUES FOR TARGETING INFORMATION TO USERS filed Jul. 12 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 257 589 issued Aug. 14 2007 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

This application claims priority from the following U.S. Patent Applications the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes 

 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616 entitled AUTOMATIC ADAPTIVE DOCUMENT HELP SYSTEM filed Dec. 22 1997 now abandoned 

 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 636 039 entitled TECHNIQUES TO FACILITATE READING OF A DOCUMENT filed Aug. 9 2000 

 3 U.S. Pat. No. 6 804 659 entitled METHOD SYSTEM AND COMPUTER CODE FOR CONTENT BASED WEB ADVERTISING issued Oct. 12 2004 and

 4 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 483 094 entitled METHOD FOR INTRA DOCUMENT COMPARISON IN A CONTENT BASED WEB ADVERTISING SYSTEM filed Jan. 14 2000 now abandoned.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the xerographic reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure in exactly the form it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates to providing and outputting information to a user in electronic form and more particularly to techniques for targeting electronic information to a user based on contents of document s viewed or accessed by the user.

With the rapid growth of computers and communication networks such as the Internet an increasing amount of information is now available to users in electronic or digital form. The information is usually stored by a communication network in the form of documents that can be accessed by a user of the communication network using computer systems coupled to the communication network.

For example in the World Wide Web WWW environment the information is stored in the form of hypertext documents called web pages that can be accessed by a user using a browser program executing on a client computer coupled to the Internet. A web page may incorporate several information objects storing information of various types. These information objects may include text objects graphics objects audio and video content objects multimedia objects software program objects hypertext link objects and other types of data objects and or combinations thereof. The hypertext link objects may contain hypertext links to other web pages. Web pages are typically stored on web servers or content servers coupled to the Internet. Each web page is uniquely identified by an address called a Uniform Resource Locator URL that enables users to access the web page.

The terms client and server are used to classify computer systems connected to communication networks such as the Internet based upon the role that the computer systems play with respect to requesting information or providing information. A computer system that is used by a user to request information is referred to as a client computer or a client . A computer system that stores information and provides the information in response to an information request received from a client computer is referred to as a server computer or a server . A particular computer system may function both as a client and as a server.

Users typically access web pages using a program called a web browser which generally executes on a client computer coupled to the Internet. A web browser is a type of client application that enables users to select retrieve and perceive information stored by the Internet. Examples of browsers include the Internet Explorer browser program provided by Microsoft Corporation the Netscape Navigator browser provided by Netscape Corporation and others. Users generally access web pages by providing URL information to the browser either directly or indirectly and the browser responds by retrieving the web page corresponding to the user provided URL. The retrieved web page is then displayed to the requesting user on the client computer.

Due to the vast volume of information available via communication networks such as the Internet it is becoming increasingly difficult for a user to identify documents that contain information of interest to the user or to find information that is relevant to the user. While there are several tools e.g. search engines etc. available which help the user in finding relevant information each of these tools requires manual input from the user and also requires that the user know how to use the tool.

For example in order to use a search engine the user has to know how to formulate an appropriate search query that will be used by the search engine to identify documents of interest to the user. Formulating an appropriate search query can be a non trivial task especially for those users who are not comfortable with using computers or who are not computer savvy. Further if the search query is not properly formulated the results that are returned by the search engine might not suit the user s needs. For example if the search query is too broad the number of documents returned by the search engine might be quite large and include documents that are irrelevant to the user. The user is then forced to waste valuable time in identifying relevant documents from the vast number of documents returned by the search engine. Conversely if the search query is too narrow then the search engine may miss documents that are relevant to the user.

In light of the above what is needed are techniques for providing relevant information to users without requiring specific user input. It is further desired that the techniques be able to provide relevant information to a user based upon information or documents accessed by the user and based upon the user s likes and preferences.

The present invention provides techniques for providing relevant information to a user. According to an embodiment of the present invention the relevant information is selected based on contents of information or documents accessed or viewed by the user. The relevant information is provided automatically to the user without requiring user input. The information provided to the user is selected from information provided by various content provider systems. The present invention uses several techniques to determine relevancy between the contents of the document accessed by the user and between the information provided by the content provider systems. The relevancy information is used to select information to be provided to the user.

According to an embodiment the present invention provides techniques for providing information to a user based upon contents of a first document displayed to the user. According to this specific embodiment the present invention identifies the first document displayed to the user identifies at least a first section of the first document extracts a first set of information objects from the first section of the first document determines degree of relevancy information for a second set of information objects the degree of relevancy information indicating the relevancy of information objects in the second set of information objects to information objects in the first set of information objects and selects a third set of information objects from information objects in the second set of information objects based upon the degree of relevancy information determined for information objects in the second set of information objects wherein information objects in the third set of information objects store information to be output to the user when the first document is being displayed to the user.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system comprising a user system and a server system is provided for providing information to a user based upon contents of a document displayed to the user. In this embodiment the user system is used to display the first document to the user. The server system is configured to access a first set of content provider information objects CPIOs identify the document displayed to the user extract a first set of user document information objects UDIOs from the document and identify a plurality of selection techniques for determining degree of relevancy information for the first set of CPIOs. For each selection technique in the plurality of selection techniques the server system is configured to apply the selection technique to generate degree of relevancy information for the CPIOs the degree of relevancy information indicating the relevancy of the CPIOs to the UDIOs calculated using the selection technique. The server system is then configured to select a second set of CPIOs from the first set of CPIOs based upon the degree of relevancy information for the CPIOs calculated using the plurality of selection techniques. The user system is configured to output information stored by the second set of CPIOs to the user.

Various additional objects features and advantages of the present invention can be more fully appreciated with reference to the detailed description and accompanying drawings that follow.

The present invention provides techniques for providing relevant information to users. In particular the present invention provides techniques for providing relevant information or targeting information to a user based on information or documents accessed or viewed by the user. According to the teachings of the present invention the relevant information is provided automatically to the user without requiring user input. Providing or targeting relevant information or information in which the user is likely to be interested in to the user involves the organized selection of information to be provided to the user based upon information accessed or viewed by the user and outputting the selected information to the user. The information selected and output to the user may be of various types including electronic text information news information advertising information public information audio information video information multimedia information images and other types of information and combinations thereof.

Distributed system depicted in is merely illustrative of an embodiment incorporating the present invention and does not limit the scope of the invention as recited in the claims. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize other variations modifications and alternatives.

Communication network provides a mechanism allowing the various computer systems depicted in to communicate and exchange information with each other. Communication network may itself be comprised of many interconnected computer systems and communication links. While in one embodiment communication network is the Internet in other embodiments communication network may be any suitable computer network including a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless network an intranet a private network a public network a switched network and the like.

Communication links may be hardwire links optical links satellite or other wireless communications links wave propagation links or any other mechanisms for communication of information. Various communication protocols may be used to facilitate communication between the various systems shown in . These communication protocols may include TCP IP HTTP and HTML protocols extensible markup language XML wireless application protocol WAP vendor specific protocols customized protocols and others.

Users may use user systems to request and view information stored within distributed network . The term users as used in this application may refer to one or more human beings interacting with an user system one or more processes executing on user system systems or devices coupled to user systems and other like entities which may access information via user system .

As indicated above the information stored within distributed network may be organized in the form of documents and the user may access the documents via user system . For example in the WWW environment the information is organized in the form of web pages that may be accessed by the user via a browser program executing on user system . Several different types of documents may be accessed by the user including documents created using word processor programs multimedia documents spreadsheets electronic mail email documents text documents images or graphics file audio files video files or other types of documents and combinations thereof. These documents may be accessed by the user via programs such a word processor an email program a text editor a browser and other like applications executing on user system . In general the term access program will be used throughout this application to refer to a program or application which executes on user system or on devices coupled to user system and which is used by a user of user system to access documents or other information stored locally by user system or stored by the various components of distributed system .

Information targeted for a user according to the teachings of the present invention may also be output to the user via user system . According to an embodiment of the present invention the targeted information is output to the user without requiring any specific user input or interaction. The selected information may be presented to the user using several different techniques. According to an embodiment of the present invention the selected information is presented to the user in a specially designated area hereinafter referred to as the selected information display area of an access program executing on user system . One or more selected information display areas may be provided on an access program for displaying or outputting the selected information. The selected information display areas provide consistent unobtrusive access to the selected information. The selected information may also be output to the user via audio and or video output devices coupled to user system .

A user system typically operates as a client requesting information from servers coupled to distributed network . It should however be apparent that a particular user system may act both as a client or a server depending on whether the user system is requesting or providing information.

Content provider systems are configured to store information that may be requested and accessed by users of user systems . As indicated above content provider systems may store the information in the form of documents. For example content provider systems may host web sites that may store web pages that may be accessed by the users. In a specific embodiment of the present invention a content provider system may receive a web page request from a user system and in response the content provider system may determine the requested web page and forward the requested web page to the requesting user system . For user systems coupled to communication network via server system the request web page may be communicated to the requesting user system via server system .

According to the teachings of the present invention content provider systems may also provide information hereinafter referred to as selection base information from which the information to be targeted to a particular user is selected. According to an embodiment of the present invention the selection base information is stored by the content provider systems and made accessible to server that performs the selection process. Alternatively the selection base information may be communicated by the content provider systems to server and stored by server . The selection base information may be stored and communicated to server system in various forms such as a digital document as a data structure as a database etc.

According to an embodiment of the present invention server system is configured to perform processing to select information from the selection base information to be targeted to users of user systems based upon information accessed or viewed by the users. As indicated above the user systems may be directly coupled to communication network or may be coupled via communication network via server system . For user systems that are coupled to the communication network via a server system the selection of information may be performed by the server system. For user systems which are not coupled to a server system e.g. user system the information selection may be performed by the user system itself computer system acts both as a user system and as a server system or by a server system remotely coupled to the user system via communication network .

In order to facilitate selection of the information to be provided to users server system is configured to monitor information or documents accessed or viewed by the users. Based upon the document s viewed accessed by the users server selects information that is likely to be relevant to the users from selection base information provided to or made accessible to server system .

Server system may use several different techniques to determine and select information which may be of interest to a particular user and which is to be provided to the particular user. According to a first technique the selection may be performed using a concept based selection technique wherein server system determines if the contents of the document s viewed accessed by the particular user are relevant to concepts of interest to the user and then uses the relevant concepts to determine information from the selection base information to be provided to the user.

Information related to concepts of interest for a particular user may be provided by the user and stored in a user profile file accessible to server system . In alternative embodiments of the present invention the user profile information may be automatically generated by server system based upon the particular user s interactions with user system and based upon information accessed by the user via user system . For example server may analyze the URLs associated with web pages accessed by the user via user system to determine information related to web sites accessed by the user and use that information to determine concepts of interest to the user. Server may also analyze the contents of web pages accessed by the user. Server may also monitor web channels that a user peruses and use that information to build a user profile. Other information related to the particular user accessible to server system e.g. demographic information related to user etc. may also be used to build a user profile for the particular user.

According to another technique server system compares the contents of the document s viewed accessed by the user with the contents of the selection base information and determines information from the selection base information to be provided to the user based upon the results of the comparison. Several other techniques may also be used by server system to select information to be presented to the user. Server system may also use a plurality of selection techniques and then combine the results of the plurality of selection techniques to determine information to be presented to the user. Further details related to techniques used by server system to select information to be provided to the user are described below.

Information used by server system for the information selection process may be stored in database that is coupled either locally or remotely to server . For example information related to concepts of interest to a user information related to documents viewed by the user selection base information etc. may be stored in database . Other information used by server may also be stored by server .

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. The various subsystems and components of computer system need not be at the same physical location but may be distributed at various locations within network . Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses.

User interface input devices may include a keyboard pointing devices such as an optical tablet a mouse trackball touchpad a graphics tablet a scanner a barcode scanner a touchscreen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to input information using computer system .

User interface output devices may include a display subsystem a printer a fax machine or non visual displays such as audio output devices. The display subsystem may be a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a projection device. The display subsystem may also provide non visual display such as via audio output devices. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to output information from computer system .

Storage subsystem may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of the present invention. For example according to an embodiment of the present invention software modules implementing the functionality of the present invention may be stored in storage subsystem . These software modules may be executed by processor s of computer system . In a distributed environment the software modules may be stored on a plurality of computer systems and executed by processors of the plurality of computer systems. Storage subsystem may also provide a repository for storing various databases that may be used by the present invention. Storage subsystem may comprise memory subsystem and file storage subsystem .

Memory subsystem may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. File storage subsystem provides persistent non volatile storage for program and data files and may include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a Compact Digital Read Only Memory CD ROM drive an optical drive removable media cartridges and other like storage media. One or more of the drives may be located at remote locations on other connected computers.

Computer system itself can be of varying types including a personal computer a portable computer a workstation a computer terminal a network computer a mainframe a kiosk a personal digital assistant PDA a communication device such as a cell phone or any other data processing system. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in is intended only as a specific example for purposes of illustrating the preferred embodiment of the computer system. Many other configurations of a computer system are possible having more or fewer components than the computer system depicted in . Computer system may function as a client or a server or combinations thereof.

As shown in the method is initiated when server identifies a document or documents that is accessed or view by a user of user system step . As previously indicated the document may be of different formats including a web page a word processor document an email message a spreadsheet and the like. The document may be accessed or viewed by the user using an access program executing on user system . For the embodiment depicted in and for sake of simplicity the invention has been described assuming that the selection is based upon a single document being viewed or accessed by a user using user system . However the scope of the present invention is not restricted to analysis of a single document. According to the teachings of the present invention the selection of information may be performed based on analysis of a plurality of documents or information viewed or accessed by the user presently and in the past.

After identifying the document viewed or accessed by the user server system then determines one or more sections of the document to be analyzed step . Server system may be configured to analyze the entire document including sections of the document not viewed by the user or alternatively server system may be configured to analyze specific sections of the document. According to an embodiment of the present invention server system may be configured to only analyze the section of the document that is viewed by the user using the access program. Alternatively server system may be configured to analyze other sections of the document such as the title section of the document the summary section of the document specific headings or sub headings within the document specific paragraphs within the document and the like and combinations thereof. According to an embodiment of the present invention the sections of the document to be analyzed are user configurable.

Server system then extracts information objects from the section s of the document determined in step step . In general the term information object is meant to refer to an entity e.g. a data structure an object etc. which stores information of a particular type. The types of information may include text audio video images and the like. For example a text information object stores information of type text an audio information object e.g. a MP3 object stores audio information a video information object e.g. a MPEG video object stores video information an image information object e.g. a GIF object a JPEG object stores image information and the like.

One or more information objects may be embedded in the document viewed or accessed by the user. For example information objects which may be embedded in a web page may include text objects graphics objects audio and video content objects multimedia objects software program objects hypertext link objects and the like. As part of the processing performed in step server system extracts information objects embedded in the section of the document to be analyzed as determined in step . Alternatively as part of the processing performed in step server may extract the contents of the section of the document to be analyzed and build one or more information objects of the appropriate type based on the extracted content information. For purposes of this application an information object extracted from a document viewed or accessed by a user or generated based upon content extracted from a document viewed accessed by the user will be referred to as a user document information object or UDIO in short . The UDIOs extracted in step may be stored in database accessible to server system .

Server system also extracts or generates information objects from the selection base information provided by content provider systems . An information object extracted from the selection base information or generated based upon content from the selection base information will be referred to as a content provider information object or CPIO in short . Extraction of CPIOs may be performed when server system receives the selection base information from one or more content provider systems. In alternative embodiments the content provider systems may provide the CPIOs to the server system in which case server system does not have to perform the extraction. According to an embodiment of the present invention the CPIOs are stored in database coupled to server system . In alternative embodiments of the present invention the CPIOs may be stored by the content provider systems and accessed by server system via communication network .

The UDIOs extracted in step are then analyzed to determine information related to the contents of the extracted UDIOs step . Based upon information obtained from analyzing the UDIOs in step and based upon information related to CPIOs accessible to server system server then selects one or more CPIOs to be provided to the user step . Server system may employ several different selection techniques to select the CPIOs in step . Further details related to techniques employed in specific embodiments of the present invention are provided below.

The CPIOs selected in step are then communicated to user system step . Various communication protocols may be used to communicate the selected CPIOs to the user system. The information stored by the selected CPIOs is then output to the user at the user system step . As discussed above various techniques may be used to output the information contained in the selected CPIOs to the user. According to an embodiment of the present invention the information contained in the selected CPIOs is output to the user in one or more selected information display areas provided on an access program which the user uses to view access the document identified in step . The selected information may also be output to the user via audio and or video output devices coupled to user system .

As shown in server system determines the type or class of each UDIO extracted or generated in step of step . The class or type of an information object depends on the type of information contained or stored by the information object. For example a UDIO which stores or contains text information is of type text a UDIO which stores or contains audio information is of type audio a UDIO which stores or contains video information is of type video a UDIO which stores or contains image information is of type image and so on. The type or class of an information object thus indicates the type of content or information stored or contained by the information object.

For each UDIO server system then determines content recognition techniques to be applied to the UDIO based upon the class of the UDIO determined in step step . For each UDIO the content recognition techniques determined for the UDIO in step are then applied to the UDIO to determine the contents of the UDIO step . Various types of content recognition techniques may be used based upon the type of a UDIO. For example for an audio UDIO e.g. a sound clip voice recognition techniques e.g. ViaVoice voice recognition program may be applied to generate a text transcript corresponding to the sound clip. Content recognition techniques applied to an audio UDIO may also determine attributes of the sound source s in the audio UDIO. For example the content recognition techniques may determine the identity of the speaker s in the sound clip. Content recognition techniques applied to a video UDIO e.g. a video clip may determine keyframes from the video. Audio recognition techniques may also be applied to a video UDIO to generate a text transcript corresponding to the audio associated with the video. Other content recognition techniques may determine the contents of the video and the context of the events depicted by the video. For example a particular content recognition technique may determine the entities depicted in the video clip e.g. determine that the entities are human animals machines etc. and information associated with the entities and the context of the video e.g. identify the locations depicted in the video object e.g. geographical locations such as London Paris The White House a field a battleground a specific opera etc. time line for the information included in the video UDIO e.g. Year 2000 U.S. Elections the 1999 Super Bowl the dinosaur age etc. and other contexts. For image objects optical character recognition OCR techniques may be used to determine the contents of the image. For text objects a copy of the textual information may be obtained. Various other content recognition techniques may also be used to determine the contents of the UDIOs.

For each extracted UDIO the type information associated with the UDIO determined in step and information related to the contents of the UDIO determined in step is stored for future processing step . According to an embodiment of the present invention the information is stored in database coupled to server system . Processing then continues with step in .

Server system may also use the processing steps shown in to determine the contents of CPIOs extracted from or generated from the selection base information. This processing may be performed when the server system receives the CPIOs or when the CPIOs are extracted from the selection base information. For each CPIO the type information associated with the CPIO and information related to the contents of the CPIO may be stored in database coupled to server system for future processing.

Server then applies each selection technique identified in step to determine relevancy between the CPIOs and the UDIOs for each selection technique step . The results of the various selection techniques applied in step are then combined to generate a single final list of one or more selected CPIOs objects to be communicated to user system step . The single final list of selected CPIOs is then communicated to user system according to step in .

In alternative embodiments of the present invention instead of combining the results from the various selection techniques into one single final list of CPIOs server system may be configured to communicate the CPIOs selected using the various selection techniques to user system . In this embodiment for each selection technique server system communicates a list of selected CPIOs to the user system along with information identifying the selection technique used for selecting the CPIOs. User system may then output information contained by CPIOs in the various lists received from the server system along with information indicating the technique used for selecting the CPIOs in the lists.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the user is allowed to select whether the CPIOs lists generated in step by applying the various selection techniques are to be combined as shown in or whether the lists themselves are to be communicated to user system . In alternative embodiments of the present invention the user may also be allowed to selectively chose which lists from those generated in step are to be communicated to user system .

As indicated above according to a specific embodiment of the present invention a class based selection technique and a concept based selection technique are used for selecting CPIOs to be communicated to user system . depicts a simplified high level flowchart showing a method of selecting CPIOs using a class based selection technique and a concept based selection technique according to an embodiment of the present invention. Flowchart depicted in is merely illustrative of an embodiment incorporating the present invention and does not limit the scope of the invention as recited in the claims. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize other variations modifications and alternatives. Steps and depict processing performed according to the concept based selection technique while steps and depict processing performed according to the class based selection technique.

As shown in the concept based selection technique is initiated when server system determines concepts of interest to the user step . As indicated above information related to concepts of interest to the user or user concepts information may be stored in a user profile file accessible to server system . A concept identifier may identify each concept of interest to a user. One or more keywords or key phrases may be associated with each concept as identified by the concept identifier . A probability value may be associated with each keyword or key phrase indicating the probability that the concept as identified by the concept identifier is discussed given the presence of the keyword or key phrase. For example a user may be interested in a concept called Football and the keywords associated with the concept may include San Francisco 49ers Joe Montana Super Bowl and the like. Probability values may be associated with the keywords.

As described above according to an embodiment of the present invention a concept of interest to the user may be represented as follows 

A particular concept may be further divided in sub concepts that may in turn be divided in sub sub concepts and so on. According to a specific embodiment of the present invention a Bayesian belief network may be used to represent user concepts information. For a description of a specific embodiment of a Bayesian network please refer to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616 entitled AUTOMATIC ADAPTIVE DOCUMENT HELP SYSTEM filed Dec. 22 1997 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The user concepts information may be configured by the user or may be alternatively be automatically compiled by server system by monitoring the user s interactions with the user system and by monitoring information accessed by the user. Several tools may be provided to configure the contents of the user profile. One such user profile editor is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616.

Referring back to for each UDIO server system then determines a degree of relevancy of the UDIO to each concept of interest to the user determined in step step . According to an embodiment of the present invention the output of step may be represented by a table such as Table 1 shown below 

Several different techniques may be used by server system to determine the degree of relevancy. According to one technique server may compare the content information associated with a UDIO with the keywords and their associated probability values associated with the concept and determine the degree of relevancy based upon the comparison. Other techniques to determine the degrees of relevancy have been described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 08 995 616 09 636 039 09 483 092 and 09 483 094 the entire contents of which have been incorporated by reference for all purposes. Several other techniques known to those of skill in the art may also be used to determine the degrees of relevancy.

Server system may build a table similar to Table 1 for CPIOs. The table built for CPIOs as shown in Table 2 may store degree of relevancy information for the CPIOs as they relate to each concept of interest to the user. Server system may build the CPIO relevance table after contents for the CPIOs have been determined using one or more content recognition techniques.

Based upon the information contained in the UDIO relevance table e.g. Table 1 and the CPIO relevance table e.g. Table 2 for each CPIO server system determines the degree of relevancy or a relevance score of the CPIO to each UDIO as it relates to a particular user concept of interest i.e. the server determines the degree of relevancy of a CPIO to a UDIO Concept pair step . According to an embodiment of the present invention the degree of relevancy of a CPIO may be calculated for only those UDIOs whose degree of relevancy R shown in Table 1 to a particular user concept of interest is above a user configurable threshold value. This helps reduce the amount of processing performed by server .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the output of step may be represented by Table 3 shown below 

The list of CPIOs for each UDIO as it relates to a particular user concept of interest may be ranked or ordered based upon the degrees of relevancy of the CPIOs i.e. based on the value of RR . Several techniques may be used by server to determine the relevancy of CPIOs to a particular UDIO as it relates to a particular user concept of interest. According to a one technique a simple linear combination may be used. According to the linear combination technique the value of RR may be expressed as follows 

Several other techniques known to those of skill in the art may also be used to determine the degrees of relevancy. A few such techniques have been described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 08 995 616 09 636 039 09 483 092 and 09 483 094 the entire contents of which have been incorporated by reference for all purposes.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the list of CPIOs along with their relevancy information may then be used for further processing according to step described below wherein the results generated by the various selection techniques are combined to generate a single final list of one or more CPIO objects which is then communicated to the user system used by the user.

According to an alternative embodiment of the present invention instead of communicating a single CPIO list the lists generated by the various selection techniques may be communicated to the user system. In this embodiment for each selection technique server system selects one or more CPIOs based on the relevancy information generated for the CPIOs using the particular selection technique step . Various techniques may be used by server to perform the selection of CPIOs. According to one technique the selection is based on the degree of relevancy of the CPIOs to each UDIO as it relates to a particular user concept of interest i.e. the selection is based on the value of RR shown in Table 3. Server system may be configured to select only those CPIOs whose RR value is above a user configurable threshold value. According to another technique server system may be configured to select CPIOs based on the RR value and also based on the degree of relevancy of the UDIOs to the user concepts of interest i.e. based on the value of R shown in Table 1 and 3 . Other techniques may use other criteria for selection of the CPIOs. It should be apparent that various other selection techniques known to those skilled in the art may also be used in accordance with the present invention. The CPIOs selected in step may then be communicated to user system according to step in .

As previously indicated server may also select CPIOs using a class based or type based selection technique as denoted by steps and in . As shown in the class based selection technique is initiated when server system determines one or more comparison techniques to be applied to each UDIO based upon the class of the UDIO step . As described above the class or type of an information object indicates the type of content or information stored by the information object and is usually determined when the information object is extracted or generated . For example class information for the UDIOs is determined in step of .

In general a comparison technique enables comparison between the content stored by the information objects. As previously described various content recognition techniques may be applied to determine the content information of each information object. For example according to an embodiment of the present invention the content information for an UDIO is determined in step of . One or more comparison techniques may be provided for each information object class. Accordingly the comparison techniques determined by server in step to be applied to an UDIO depend on the type of the UDIO. Using a comparison technique the server system compares contents of an UDIO with contents of a CPIO to determine the relevancy a degree of relevancy or a relevance score of the CPIO to the UDIO. Information related to the comparison techniques for the various classes may be stored in database .

Table 4 shown below provides examples of classes and comparison techniques corresponding to the classes according to an embodiment of the present invention.

As shown in Table 4 for a text class object text comparison techniques may be used which compare the text associated with a text information object with text associated with other information objects. For example for a text UDIO text comparison techniques may compare the text associated with the UDIO with text associated with a CPIO.

For an image object text comparison techniques image similarity techniques and other techniques known to those skilled in the art may be used. A text comparison technique compares the text associated with an image object with text associated with other information objects. For example for an image UDIO text comparison techniques may compare the text associated with the image UDIO with text associated with a CPIO. Image similarity techniques determine similarity between images associated with the information objects. For example for an image UDIO an image similarity technique compares the image associated with the image UDIO with images associated with CPIOs. Virage Inc. of San Mateo Calif. provides an image similarity application that may be used to compare images.

For an audio information object text comparison techniques sound source comparison techniques sound similarity techniques and other techniques known to those skilled in the art may be used. Text comparison techniques compare the text transcripts associated with an audio information object with text associated with other information objects. For example for an audio UDIO text comparison techniques may compare the text transcript associated with the audio UDIO with text associated with a CPIO. Sound source comparison techniques and sound similarity techniques compare sources of the audio signals stored by an audio information object. For example a sound source comparison technique may compare the audio signals of an audio UDIO with the audio signals of an audio CPIO to determine the degree of similarity of the audio sources.

All of the comparison techniques associated with a text information object an image information object and an audio information object along with video comparison techniques may be applied to compare video information objects. For example text comparison techniques may be used to compare text transcripts associated with a video information object image comparison techniques may be used to compare images or keyframes associated with a video information object e.g. applications provided by Virage Inc. which compare similarity between video frames and audio comparison techniques may be used to compare audio signals associated with the video information object. Video comparison techniques may also be used to compare video signals associated with the video object. The above mentioned comparison techniques for a video information object may be used to compare a video UDIO and other CPIOs.

It should be apparent that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the techniques shown in the Table 4. Various other comparison techniques known to those skilled in the art may also be used to compare the contents of information objects including various other types of information objects not shown in Table 4 .

Referring back to for each UDIO each comparison technique associated with the type of the UDIO and determined in step is applied to determine relevancy scores between the UDIO and the CPIOs step . Accordingly for a particular UDIO the output of step may comprise a list of CPIOs for each comparison technique and a relevancy score indicating the relevancy of each CPIO and the particular UDIO for a particular matching technique. According to an embodiment of the present invention the output of step may be stored in a table such as Table 5 shown below 

In the embodiment shown above Table 5 comprises four columns. The first column identifies a UDIO e.g. UDIOindicates the first user document information object . The second column indicates the class or type of the UDIO identified in first column e.g. UDIOis of class X UDIOis of class Y and UDIOis also of class X. . The third column identifies the comparison techniques corresponding to the class identified in the second column e.g. two comparison techniques are associated with class X namely technique 1 and technique 2 three comparison techniques apply to class Y namely techniques 1 4 and 5 and so on . For each comparison technique identified in the third column the fourth column contains a list of CPIOs and relevancy scores of the CPIOs to the UDIO object identified in the first column determined by applying the comparison technique identified in the third column.

Several different techniques may be used by the present invention to determine the RRR scores. According to a specific technique for each UDIO of a given class server applies a comparison technique associated with the class of the UDIO to each CPIO which has a similar comparison technique associated with it. For example for a text UDIO a text comparison technique associated with the text class can be applied to image CPIOs audio CPIOs video CPIOs and CPIOs of other types which have a text comparison technique associated with them to compare the text transcripts associated with the information objects. An UDIO of a first class and a CPIO of a second class which may or may not be the same class as the first class are said to be compatible for a particular comparison technique if that particular comparison technique is associated with the first and the second class. Accordingly if a UDIO is a text object then it is compatible with CPIOs of classes that have a corresponding text comparison technique. For example if a UDIO is of type image and an image similarity comparison technique is being used then image CPIOs and video CPIOs are compatible since there is a corresponding image similarity comparison technique associated with the image and video classes. For an audio UDIO if a sound source comparison technique is being used then CPIOs that are either audio or video objects are compatible since there is an corresponding sound source comparison technique associated with each of those classes. The compatibility of a UDIO and CPIO for a given comparison technique can be determined by consulting the information stored in Table 4.

For two compatible information objects the relevance score RRR generated by applying the particular comparison technique is associated with the CPIO for the particular UDIO and the particular comparison technique and stored in memory e.g. in Table 5 . For example server may use a sound source comparison technique to compare sound sources in an audio UDIO with sound sources in audio or video CPIOs. Using the sound source comparison technique server determines unique sound sources e.g. speakers by analyzing passages of speech data in the audio UDIO and compares each sound source to sound sources determined in the compatible CPIOs. For a particular compatible CPIO when server determines that a sound source in the UDIO occurs in the CPIO a confidence score associated with the particular CPIO is incremented. After all the passages in the particular UDIO have been compared in this way to sound sources in the particular CPIO the average confidence score for the particular CPIO is calculated by dividing the aggregated confidence score for the CPIO by the number of speakers identified in the particular UDIO. The average confidence score is output as the relevance RRR value of the particular CPIO to the UDIO for the sound source comparison technique.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the above described procedure may be described by the following pseudo code 

If the UDIO and CPIO are not compatible for a given comparison technique e.g. a text CPIO is not compatible with a video UDIO for a video comparison technique the value of RRR associated with the CPIO may be set to zero.

Several other techniques known to those of skill in the art may also be used to determine the degrees of relevancy. Examples of other methods for determining the relevancy scores have been described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 08 995 616 09 636 039 09 483 092 and 09 483 094 the entire contents of which have been incorporated by reference for all purposes.

After all the UDIO objects have been processed according to an embodiment of the present invention the list of CPIOs along with their relevancy information may then be used for further processing according to step described below wherein the results generated by the various selection techniques are combined to generate a single final list of one or more CPIOs which is then communicated to the user system used by the user.

According to an alternative embodiment of the present invention instead of communicating a single CPIO list the results of the various selection techniques may be communicated to the user system. In this embodiment server system selects one or more CPIOs based on the relevancy information generated for the CPIOs step . Various techniques may be used by server to select the CPIOs. According to one technique the selection is based on the degree of relevancy of the CPIOs to each UDIO for a particular comparison technique i.e. the selection is based on the value of RRR shown in Table 5. Server system may be configured to select only those CPIOs whose RRR value is above a user configurable threshold value. Other techniques may use other criteria for selection of the CPIOs. It should be apparent that various other selection techniques may also be used in accordance with the present invention. The CPIOs selected in step may then be communicated to user system according to step in .

As described above according to an embodiment of the present invention the results of one or more selection techniques such as class based selection techniques and concept based selection techniques are combined to form a single final list of CPIOs step which is then communicated to user system according to step in . According to the teachings of the present invention various combination techniques may be used by server to combine the various CPIOs into one final list. Each combination technique takes as input CPIOs and their associated relevancy information relevancy scores generated by applying the various selection techniques and outputs a single list of possibly ranked one or more CPIOs. The CPIOs included in the single final list of CPIOs may be selected based upon criteria such as concepts of interest to the user the context in which the user is viewing the user document contents of the document or sections thereof viewed by the user contents of the CPIOs relevancy information and the like. By appropriately configuring the combination technique the class es of information objects may also be used as criteria for generating the final combined list of CPIOs. The CPIOs included in the final single combined list of CPIOs are then communicated to user system according to step in .

According to an embodiment of the present invention a source based combination technique is used to combine the results of the various selection techniques to generate a single list of possibly ranked CPIOs. is a simplified block diagram showing the inputs and outputs of a source based combination technique according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in the source based combination technique takes as input CPIOs and their associated relevancy information scores generated by one or more sources . Input to combination technique as shown in may be represented as follows 

According to an embodiment of the present invention each source identifies a UDIO and information related to a selection technique applied to the UDIO. Accordingly a source may be represented as shown below according to an embodiment of the present invention 

For a concept based selection technique described above the SelectionMethodInfo field may identify a user concept. Accordingly for a concept based selection method a source may be identified by a combination of an UDIO and a concept of interest to the user as follows 

Examples of sources for a concept based selection technique may include UDIO UserConcept Travel in Paris UDIO UserConcept Football UDIO Presidential Elections and so on. For example the first two columns of Table 3 in conjunction identify a source and column four of Table 3 identifies CPIOs and associated relevancy scores included in the list elements associated with the source.

For a class based selection technique the SelectionMethodInfo field may identify the class of a particular UDIO and a particular comparison technique applied to the UDIO to generate CPIOs and their relevancy scores for the particular class of UDIO using the particular comparison technique. Accordingly for a class based selection method a source may be represented by 

Examples of sources generated by a class based selection technique may include UDIO Class Text Object ComparisonTechnique Text comparison UDIO Class Audio Object ComparisonTechnique Sound source comparison UDIO Class Audio Object ComparisonTechnique Text comparison UDIO Class Video Object ComparisonTechnique Video comparison and the like. For example the first three columns of Table 5 in conjunction identify a source and column four of Table 3 identifies CPIOs and associated relevancy scores included in the list elements associated with the source.

Accordingly for a source UDIO UserConcept i.e. a source for a concept based selection technique for a particular UDIO as it relates to a particular user concept of interest the Relvalue for each ListElement associated with the source indicates the relevance of a CPIOto the UDIO and user concept indicated by the source i.e. Relcorresponds to the value of RR . For a source UDIO Class of UDIO Comparison Technique i.e. a source for a class based selection technique for a particular UDIO of a particular class and a comparison technique associated with the class the Relvalue for each ListElement indicates the relevance of a CPIOto the UDIO of the type generated using the particular comparison technique i.e. Relcorresponds to the value of RRR depicted in Table 5 .

As shown in one or more user configurable parameters may be input to the combination technique to facilitate the combination process. These parameters may include one or more weighting factors thresholds etc. A weighting factor may be associated with combination criterion e.g. a weighing factor may be associated with a particular source to specify the importance of the particular source. For example if the user would like to increase the chances of a CPIO for a particular source being selected in the final list the user may associate a high weighting factor value with the particular source to emphasize the significance of the source. A threshold relevance value may also be associated with combination criteria. e.g. a threshold may be associated with a particular source to indicate a minimum degree of relevancy value for a CPIO to be selected in the final single list. For example a user may associate a first threshold with a first source and as a result only those CPIOs whose relevancy scores are above the first threshold and which are included in the list elements for the particular source will be selected for inclusion in the single final list.

Accordingly weighting factors and thresholds allow a user to customize the manner in which combination technique will select and possibly rank CPIOs in the final list of CPIOs. For example by setting appropriate weighting factors and thresholds the user may emphasize the significance of a particular source emphasize the significance of a particular concept of interest to the user emphasize the significance of a particular type of information object and the like.

As shown in the method is initiated by initializing various variables that will be used for the computation step . According to an embodiment of the present invention these variables may include a an array NumVotes comprising N elements where N is the total number of CPIOs wherein each element of the array corresponds to a particular CPIO b an array WeightVotes comprising N elements wherein each element of the array corresponds to a particular CPIO c an array of lists SourcesVoting comprising N elements where each element of the array points to a list of CPIOs d a variable S which is initialized to the total number of sources to be processed and e a counter variable d which is initialized to one and is used to traverse the sources.

The NumVotes array is used to record the number of times that a particular CPIO was considered to be included in the final single list of CPIOs. Accordingly an element of array NumVotes corresponding to a particular CPIO indicates the number of times that the particular CPIO was considered by the combination algorithm to be included in the final single list of CPIOs. Each element of the WeightVotes array corresponding to a particular CPIO accumulates the weighting factor as applied to the source for the particular CPIO. Each element of the SourcesVoting array corresponding to a particular CPIO points to a list which indicates the sources which contributed to that particular CPIO.

After the various variables have been initialized processing of the sources is then commenced. Server determines if there are any unprocessed sources step . This may be accomplished by checking if the value of the d variable is greater than the S variable value. If the value of the d variable is greater than the value of the S variable it indicates that all the sources have been processed and processing continues with step . However if the value of the d variable is not greater than the S variable it indicates the existence of unprocessed sources and processing continues with step . Accordingly the d variable is used to traverse through the available sources and process them one at a time.

In step the present invention selects a particular source Sindicating the dsource for processing. Variables used for processing the list elements for the source Sselected in step are then initialized step . According to an embodiment of the present invention these variables may include a a variable L which is initialized to the number of elements ListElements in the list corresponding to source S and b a counter variable e which is initialized to one and which is used to traverse the elements in the list corresponding to source S.

Server system then determines if there are any unprocessed elements in the list of elements corresponding to the source S selected in step step . This may be accomplished by checking if the value of the e variable is greater than the L variable value. If the value of the e variable is greater than the value of the L variable it indicates that all the list elements have been processed and processing continues with step wherein the value of the d variable is incremented by one to select the next source. However if the value of the e variable is not greater than the L variable it indicates the existence of unprocessed list elements and processing continues with step . Accordingly the e variable is used to traverse through the list elements for a particular source and process the list elements one at a time.

In step the CPIO variable is initialized to point to the CPIO referenced by the elist element in the list for source S and the R variable is initialized to store or refer to the relevance value or score associated with CPIO referenced by the elist element in the list for source S. The value of Ris then checked to determine if it is greater than a user configurable value T step where Tindicates a threshold value configured by the user for source S. If the value of Ris not greater that the value of T the elist element is not considered for inclusion in the final list of CPIOs i.e. the list element is skipped and processing continues with step wherein the value of e is incremented by one to select the next list element from the list corresponding to source S. If the value of Ris greater that the value of T it indicates that the particular CPIO included in the elist element is to be considered for inclusion in the final single list and processing continues with step .

In step the value of the element of array NumVotes corresponding to the CPIO indicated by variable CPIOis incremented by one. The value of the element of array WeightVotes corresponding to the CPIO indicated by variable CPIOis incremented by the user configurable weighting factor W associated with source S. Information identifying source Sis also appended to the list pointed to by the element of array SourcesVoting corresponding to the CPIO indicated by variable CPIO. Processing then continues with step wherein the value of e is incremented by one to select the next list element from the list corresponding to source S.

After all the sources and their corresponding list elements have been processed as determined by step a final single list of CPIOs is generated based on user specified criteria and information recorded in the NumVotes WeightVotes and SourcesVoting arrays step . According to an embodiment of the present invention the user specified criteria may configure the present invention to select CPIOs to be included in the final list based on information stored in the WeightVotes array. For example only those CPIOs having WeightVotes values above a user configurable threshold may be selected for inclusion in the final list. Alternatively the WeightVotes array may be sorted and CPIOs corresponding to the top G where the value of G is user configurable WeightVotes values may be selected for inclusion in the final single list of CPIOs to be communicated to user system . In other embodiment server system may be configured to select CPIOs based on information contained in the NumVotes array. For example in this embodiment only those CPIOs having NumVotes values above a user configurable threshold are selected for inclusion in the final list of CPIOs. Alternatively the NumVotes array may be sorted and CPIOs corresponding to the top H where the value of H is user configurable NumVotes values may be selected for inclusion in the final list to be communicated to user system .

CPIOs may also be selected based upon the sources that contributed the CPIOs. For example the present invention may be configured to select a CPIO based upon information contained in the lists pointed to by elements of the SourcesVoting array. The user may also specify selection criteria that is based on a combination of information stored in the NumVotes WeightVotes and or SourcesVoting arrays. It should be apparent that the scope of the present invention is not restricted to the selection criteria techniques discussed above. Various other techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used to select CPIOs to be included in the final single list of CPIOs to be communicated to the user system.

The final single list of one or more CPIOs generated in step may then be communicated to user system according to step in . The information stored by the CPIOs included in the final list may then be output to the user by user system step in .

Selected information display area is used to display information stored by CPIOs selected by server system and communicated to the user system in accordance with the teachings of the present invention. The information displayed in selected information display area may include text information image information audio information video information URL information and other types of information and combinations thereof. The information displayed in selected information display area may have been selected by server using one or more of the selection techniques described above. For example in the information displayed in area includes text and URL links that are determined by server to be relevant in some way to the document viewed by the user and to concepts of interest to the user. The URL links includes links to documents entitled Cyborg Seeks . . . Tourist Wear . . . and Smart Clothing . . . which may be of interest to the user. In this specific embodiment the document names have been shortened to accommodate the size of information display area . However the content and the display arrangement of the information may vary in alternative embodiments of the present invention. Further the number of selected information display areas may also vary in alternative embodiments of the present invention.

In the embodiment depicted in area displays concepts of interest to the user of the user system. As described above this information may be stored in a user profile. In the example depicted in the user concepts of interest include concepts identified by content identifiers Agents Interfaces Wearable Bayes Design and InputDev . For each concept the user interface also indicates the degree of relevancy of the document viewed by the user in area to the concepts of interest. For example the document viewed by the user is 97 relevant to the concept identified by concept identifier Wearable . It should be apparent the user concepts need not be displayed in alternative embodiments of the present invention.

The user may make selections from the information displayed in selected information display area . For example selection of URL link Cyborg Seeks . . . in causes the web page entitled Cyborg Seeks Community corresponding to the selected URL to be loaded in area of browser as depicted in . The information displayed in selected information display area is also dynamically updated to display information that is relevant to the new document displayed in area . In this embodiment a change in the document viewed by a user causes server to select CPIOs based upon the new document. Selected information display area is updated to display information stored in CPIOs selected by server system and communicated to the user system. Accordingly as shown in new information is displayed in selected information display area . Concept indicators displayed in are are also updated to provide indications of relevance of the current document Cyborg Seeks Community to the plurality of concepts that are of interest to the user.

In the embodiment depicted in area displays a plurality of channels of interest to the user. Information related to the channels may be stored in a user profile. In the embodiment depicted in the channels include a shopping channel a news channel a money channel and others. Different channels can be specified in other embodiments. Selected information display area is used to display information stored by CPIOs selected by server system in accordance with the teachings of the present invention based upon the document viewed by the user in area and based upon channels of interest to the user displayed in area . For example in the information displayed in area includes information that is relevant in some way to the document viewed by the user and channels of interest to the user and of possible interest to the user.

As described above the present invention provides techniques for automatically providing information to users based upon information or documents accessed or viewed by the user. Since the present invention does not require specific user input to find the relevant information the invention can be easily used to users who are not computer literate or are uncomfortable using computers. Further the present invention allows content providers to target information to users who are likely to be interested in the information. The present invention can thus be used as a powerful advertising tool for targeting advertisement information to users. The present invention may also be used for various other applications that provide information to users.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described various modifications alterations alternative constructions and equivalents are also encompassed within the scope of the invention. The described invention is not restricted to operation within certain specific data processing environments but is free to operate within a plurality of data processing environments. Additionally although the present invention has been described using a particular series of transactions and steps it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the described series of transactions and steps.

Further while the present invention has been described using a particular combination of hardware and software it should be recognized that other combinations of hardware and software are also within the scope of the present invention. The present invention may be implemented only in hardware or only in software or using combinations thereof.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that additions subtractions deletions and other modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

