---

title: User interface for retirement administration and distribution system
abstract: An embodiment of the present invention is a retirement administration and distribution system. A user interface (UI) module is coupled to at least one of a client administering module, a communication interface, an account manager, an employment and payroll interface, a self-service Website, and a business rule processing module to interact with an operator through a set of UI functions in a session related to accounts and retirement benefits of a plurality of customers. At least one of the UI functions includes a UI action and a UI display. An employment and payroll database is coupled to the employment and payroll interface to store employment and payroll information of the customers used by the UI module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07917415&OS=07917415&RS=07917415
owner: San Luis Obispo County Pension Trust Board of Trustees
number: 07917415
owner_city: San Luis Obispo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070625
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to the field of financial systems and more specifically to retirement systems.

Public pension and retirement systems have changed dramatically in the past decades due to a number of factors including changes revisions or reforms in legislative regulations social security system tax laws health care management investment opportunities demography employment and the general economy. Pension administrators face increased difficulties in managing and distributing benefits and funds for participants. Software developers have attempted to develop software systems addressing the needs of pension systems.

Existing techniques to provide retirement administration and distribution have a number of drawbacks. One technique provides a generic architecture with configurability. This technique however does not integrate accrual and distribution functions completely and does not provide the flexibility to access the functions for update or tracking at the administrative level. Other techniques are difficult to maintain and manage typically requiring the skills of software personnel to perform maintenance tasks.

An embodiment of the present invention is a retirement administration and distribution system. A client administering module administers clients using a set of client business rules. The clients include at least an operator and a plurality of customers. An account manager administers accounts and process retirement benefits of the customers. A communication interface exports and receives communication data related to the accounts and the retirement benefits of the customers.

A business rule processing module is coupled to at least one of a client administering module a communication interface an account manager an employment and payroll interface and a self service Website to apply a set of business rules related to accounts and retirement benefits of a plurality of customers to process a transaction.

A user interface UI module is coupled to at least one of a client administering module a communication interface an account manager an employment and payroll interface a self service Website and a business rule processing module to interact with an operator through a set of UI functions in a session related to accounts and retirement benefits of a plurality of customers. At least one of the UI functions includes a UI action and a UI display.

An employment and payroll database is coupled to the employment and payroll interface to store employment and payroll information of the customers used by the business rule processing module and or the UI module.

An embodiment of the present invention is a retirement administration and distribution system. A client administering module administers clients using a set of client business rules. The clients include at least an operator and a plurality of customers. An account manager administers accounts and processes retirement benefits of the customers. A communication interface exports and receives communication data related to the accounts and the retirement benefits of the customers.

A business rule processing module is coupled to at least one of a client administering module a communication interface an account manager an employment and payroll interface and a self service Website to apply a set of business rules related to accounts and retirement benefits of a plurality of customers to process a transaction.

A user interface UI module is coupled to at least one of a client administering module a communication interface an account manager an employment and payroll interface a self service Website and a business rule processing module to interact with an operator through a set of UI functions in a session related to accounts and retirement benefits of a plurality of customers. At least one of the UI functions includes a UI action and a UI display.

An employment and payroll database is coupled to the employment and payroll interface to store employment and payroll information of the customers used by the business rule processing module and or the UI module.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques have not been shown to avoid obscuring the understanding of this description.

One embodiment of the invention may be described as a process which is usually depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations may be performed in parallel or concurrently. A loop or iterations in a flowchart may be described by a single iteration. It is understood that a loop index or loop indices or counter or counters are maintained to update the associated counters or pointers. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process terminates when its operations are completed. A process may correspond to a method a program a procedure etc. A block diagram may contain blocks or modules that describe an element an item a component a device a unit a subunit a structure a method a process a function an operation a functionality or a task etc. A functionality or an operation may be performed automatically or manually.

One embodiment of the invention is a retirement administration and distribution system used by a public agency such as a pension trust PT to administer benefits retirement and pension funds for participants. The system integrates disparate applications into a single system that assists the public agency personnel to streamline the business processes ensures data integrity and provides the flexibility to respond to changing business requirements.

The production server is a server that has computing and communication resources to perform tasks related to administration and distribution of retirement benefits. It includes a retirement administration and distribution system RADS . The RADS is an integrated software package that implements the functionalities of a RADS using a number of software tools and platforms. In one embodiment the RADS utilizes Microsoft .NET environment including Visual Studio.NET Active Server Pages ASP .NET Structured Query Language SQL server and Web enabled browser. The production server has access to a production database . The production database includes data stored for use with the RADS . The production server may have a production back up . The production back up includes back up information for the RADS and the production database . The production server is intended to serve the operator group .

The replicated server is a server with similar computing and communication resources as the production server . It includes a RADS . The replicated server is intended for use by self service customers in the customer group . The RADS is the same as the RADS although it may not be updated in real time. The replicated server has access to a replicated database . The replicated database is similar to the production database although it may not be updated in real time. Like the production server the replicated server has a replicated back up which contains back up data for the RADS and the replicated database . The replicated server is intended to serve the customer group .

The network connects the production server to the operator group . The network may be any network that allows the operator group to access the production server . In one embodiment it is a local area network LAN . It may be expanded to any other network including a wide area network WAN an intranet an extranet a wireless network or the Internet. The network connects the replicated server to the customer group . In one embodiment the network is the Internet to provide the World Wide Web accessibility to the customer group . The network may be expanded to include a wireless connectivity such as Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi to allow the customer group to access the replicated server using a wireless device.

The operator group is a group of operators or clients who access the production server to use the RADS . It includes K operators to . The operators to may represent platforms terminals users applications or login sessions that communicate with the production server . Typically the operators to are users or applications that access the RADS and or the production database associated with the production server via the network . The operators are typically the staff of the public agency who owns and or operates the RADS .

The customer group is a group of customers or clients who access the replicated server to use the RADS . It includes N customers to . The customers to may represent platforms terminals users applications or login sessions that communicate with the replicated server . Typically the customers to are users or applications that access the RADS and or the replicated database associated with the server via the network . The customers to are typically the participants or subscribers of the retirement or benefits plan administered by the RADS . The customers to typically access the RADS via the network to view their accounts make inquiries or obtain information about their accounts.

The processor unit represents a central processing unit of any type of architecture such as processors using hyper threading security network digital media technologies single core processors multi core processors embedded processors mobile processors micro controllers digital signal processors superscalar computers vector processors single instruction multiple data SIMD computers complex instruction set computers CISC reduced instruction set computers RISC very long instruction word VLIW or hybrid architecture.

The MC provides control and configuration of memory and input output devices such as the main memory and the IOC . The MC may be integrated into a chipset that integrates multiple functionalities such as graphics media isolated execution mode host to peripheral bus interface memory control power management etc. The MC or the memory controller functionality in the MC may be integrated in the processor unit . In some embodiments the memory controller either internal or external to the processor unit may work for all cores or processors in the processor unit . In other embodiments it may include different portions that may work separately for different cores or processors in the processor unit .

The main memory stores system code and data. The main memory is typically implemented with dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM or any other types of memories including those that do not need to be refreshed. The main memory may include multiple channels of memory devices such as DRAMs. In one embodiment the memory includes a RADS module . The RADS module implements the RADS or shown in . The RADS module may be fully or partly implemented by hardware firmware or software or any combination thereof. In addition it may be fully or partly located in the memory . The main memory also includes an operating system OS development tools platforms and various application programming interfaces APIs to support the development and deployment of the RADS . These software components may include Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Standard edition or later XP Professional Edition or later .NET framework 2.0 or later ASP.NET 2.0 or later Application Microsoft SQL 2005 or later MS Office a Web browser e.g. Netscape Internet Explorer v. 6 or later .

The graphics processor is any processor that provides graphics functionalities. The graphics processor may also be integrated into the MC to form a Graphics and Memory Controller GMC . The graphics processor may be a graphics card such as the Graphics Performance Accelerator AGP card interfaced to the MC via a graphics port such as the Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or a peripheral component interconnect PCI Express interconnect. The graphics processor provides interface to an external display device such as standard progressive scan monitor television TV out device and Transition Minimized Differential Signaling TMDS controller.

The IOC has a number of functionalities that are designed to support I O functions. The IOC may also be integrated into a chipset together or separate from the MC to perform I O functions. The IOC may include a number of interface and I O functions such as peripheral component interconnect PCI bus interface processor interface interrupt controller direct memory access DMA controller power management logic timer system management bus SMBus universal serial bus USB interface mass storage interface low pin count LPC interface wireless interconnect direct media interface DMI etc.

The interconnect provides interface to peripheral devices. The interconnect may be point to point or connected to multiple devices. For clarity not all interconnects are shown. It is contemplated that the interconnect may include any interconnect or bus such as Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Express Universal Serial Bus USB Small Computer System Interface SCSI serial SCSI and Direct Media Interface DMI etc.

The mass storage interface interfaces to mass storage devices to store archive information such as code programs files data and applications. The mass storage interface may include SCSI serial SCSI Advanced Technology Attachment ATA parallel and or serial Integrated Drive Electronics IDE enhanced IDE ATA Packet Interface ATAPI etc. The mass storage device may include compact disk CD read only memory ROM digital versatile disc DVD floppy drive and hard drive tape drive and any other magnetic or optic storage devices. The mass storage device provides a mechanism to read machine accessible media. The mass storage device may also contain the databases or libraries accessible to the users or applications 60to or to shown in .

The I O devices to may include any I O devices to perform I 0 functions. Examples of I O devices to include controller for input devices e.g. keyboard mouse trackball pointing device media card e.g. audio video graphic network card and any other peripheral controllers.

The NIC provides network connectivity to the server . The NIC may generate interrupts as part of the processing of communication transactions. In one embodiment the NIC is compatible with both 32 bit and 64 bit peripheral component interconnect PCI bus standards. It is typically compliant with PCI local bus revision 2.2 PCI X local bus revision 1.0 or PCI Express standards. There may be more than one NIC in the processing system. Typically the NIC supports standard Ethernet minimum and maximum frame sizes 64 to 1518 bytes frame format and Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.2 Local Link Control LLC specifications. It may also support full duplex Gigabit Ethernet interface frame based flow control and other standards defining the physical layer and data link layer of wired Ethernet. It may be support copper Gigabit Ethernet defined by IEEE 802.3ab or fiber optic Gigabit Ethernet defined by IEEE 802.3z.

The NIC may also be a host bus adapter HBA such as a Small System Small Interface SCSI host adapter or a Fiber Channel FC host adapter. The SCSI host adapter may contain hardware and firmware on board to execute SCSI transactions or an adapter Basic Input Output System BIOS to boot from a SCSI device or configure the SCSI host adapter. The FC host adapter may be used to interface to a Fiber Channel bus. It may operate at high speed e.g. 2 Gbps with auto speed negotiation with 1 Gbps Fiber Channel Storage Area Network SANs . It may be supported by appropriate firmware or software to provide discovery reporting and management of local and remote HBAs with both in band FC or out of band Internet Protocol IP support. It may have frame level mucltiplexing and out of order frame reassembly on board context cache for fabric support and end to end data protection with hardware parity and cyclic redundancy code CRC support.

The client administering module administers clients using a set of client business rules. The clients may include at least an operator I 1 . . . K in the operator group and a plurality of customers s in the customer group .

The account manager administers accounts and process retirement benefits of the customers. It may include an accrual account manager a benefit accounts manager and a retirement benefits processing module . The accrual accounts manager administers accrual accounts of the customers s in the customer group using a set of accrual business rules. The benefit accounts manager administers benefit accounts of the customers s using a set of benefits business rules. The retirement benefits processing module calculates and converts retirement benefits of the customers s using a set of retirement business rules.

The communication interface is coupled to the client administering module and the account manager to export and receive communication data related to the accounts and the retirement benefits of the customers s in the customer group .

The employment and payroll interface imports employment and payroll information of the customers from an employment and payroll database . The employment and payroll interface may performs functions related to employment and payroll by interacting via the employment and business rules associated with the business rule processing module . It may also provide data to be processed used incorporated or acted upon by the business rule processing module and or the UI module .

The self service web site allows the customers s to view information regarding their accounts and the retirement benefits. The customer may also open and print forms send inquires download forms and perform other tasks related to his or her account.

The business rule processing module is interfaced to at least one of the client administering module the communication interface the account manager the employment and payroll interface the self service Website and the UI module to process a set of business rules related to accounts and retirement benefits of the plurality of customers. The business rule processing module may be located in each of these modules.

The UI module is interfaced to at least one of the client administering module the communication interface the account manager the employment and payroll interface and the self service Website to interact with an operator through a set of UI functions in a session related to accounts and retirement benefits of a plurality of customers. The UI module may be located in each of these modules. It may also be interfaced with the business rule processing module in each of the above modules. At least one of the UI functions including a UI action a UI display or both.

The operator object manager instantiate an operator object . The operator object validates an operator in the operator group maintains operator information and spawns an operator session object which contains an operator business object using the operator information . The operator information includes information related to the operator such as identification code name e mail phone number role role usage notification etc. The operator business object includes at least one of a customer object an accrual object a distribution object and a conversion object .

The operator user interface is coupled to the operator object manager to show an operator screen related to the operator object . The operator user interface is also interfaced to the UI module or incorporated the UI module to carry out UI functions. The operator screen shows one of an operator notifications page an operator recovery page an operator switchboard redirection page and an administrator operator page. The operator notifications page shows all the notifications including those that have been deleted. The operator may open up a customer page by clicking on the notification regarding the customer. The operator recovery page allows the operator to return to what he or she has worked on and select a customer to open. The operator switchboard redirection page redirects the operator to a new page based on the Uniform Resource Locator URL settings. The URL settings may include a type parameter and one or more identifier ID parameter. For example the type parameter may be an accrual account a first ID parameter may the unique ID of the customer record a second ID parameter may be the unique ID of the accrual account record to be opened. The administration operator page is used by the system administrator to manage the operators. This page allows the system administrator to set up new operators update existing operators suspend or stop operators set up operator roles extend roles and assign notification subscription roles.

Each operator has an operator role that defines the authority rights scope and capability of the operator. An operator role may include a default role an extension role or a notification subscription role. The default role may be one of an administrator role a staff role a viewer role a self service role. The administrator role has the highest authority and allows the operator to do virtually anything he or she wants regarding the operators. The system operator may log in to the administration operator page as discussed above to manage the operators. The staff role allows the operator to view most data and work with customer profile data. The viewer role allows the operator to view read only information. The self service role allows the operator to view his or her own profile in a read only mode. The extension role extends the authority or the capability of an operator. The extension role may be one of an accrual manager role a benefit counselor role a buyback manager role a distribution manager role a distribution payroll role and a transaction manager role. The accrual manager role extends update rights to accrual screens. This role also includes the buyback manager and transaction manager roles. The benefit counselor role extends update rights to retirement calculators. The buyback manager role extends update rights to buyback screens. The distribution manager role extends update rights to distribution screens. This role also includes the distribution payroll role. The distribution payroll role extends update rights to distribution payroll screen. The transaction manager role extends update rights to create new transactions. The notification subscription role provides the operator to subscribe to a notification service that automatically sends a notification to the operator when an event occurs. Usually the event that triggers a notification is an update or a change in the related record or information. The notification subscription role may be one of an accrual account notification an automated clearing house ACH notification a beneficiary notification a buyback notification a customer change notification a customer major event notification a data import notification an operator change notification a pending member notification a reciprocal notification and a system notification.

The customer object manager instantiate a customer object representing one of the plurality of the customers s in the customer group . The customer object has a customer record object a customer search object and a customer relationship object. The customer record object specifies one of customer address customer address state customer address type customer alert customer contact type customer directory type customer dissolution type and customer gender type. The customer address type indicates address that communication may be sent to. It may be one of a billing address a default address a direct rollover custodian address a garnishment allocation address a mailing address a payment address a residence address and a support allocation address. The customer alert indicates an alert regarding a condition of the customer that may require a special handling procedure. The customer alert may be a default alert i.e. no alert a hearing impaired alert a mobility impaired alert a pending divorce alert a follow up alert and a sight impaired alert. The customer contact type indicates the type of contact that was made with the customer. The customer contact type may be one of e mail fax front desk mail meeting note and phone. The customer directory type indicates that contact information such as home e mail home fax home phone mobile phone work e mail work fax and work phone. The customer dissolution type indicates the dissolution of the relationship. It may be one of an annulled marriage dissolution a court order dissolution and a divorce dissolution. The customer gender type indicates gender of the customer. It may be one of a not applicable e.g. entities and living trusts do not have a gender female male or unknown type. The customer relationship object specifies one of customer relationship sequence and customer relationship type. The customer relationship sequence indicates the relationship between the customers. It may be one of a beneficiary estate other e.g. other or unknown spouse domestic partner and survivor. The customer relationship type may be one of an alternate payee child dependent child e.g. handicapped child domestic partner entity e.g. non person entity estate ex domestic partner ex spouse friend living trust parent dependent parent e.g. handicapped parent sibling and spouse.

The customer user interface shows a customer screen related to the customer object . The customer user interface is also interfaced to the UI module or incorporated the UI module to carry out UI functions. The customer screen shows one of customer address history customer main page customer main accounts customer main benefactors customer main beneficiaries customer main check history customer main check replace customer main edit customer main notes customer merge customer profile customer relationship popup events and popup notes. The customer address history page shows all addresses past and current of the customer. The address information includes the number street city state zip code address type e.g. billing mailing current status and begin and end dates. The addresses are read only and may not be edited or deleted. There is a link to a map facility such as Google map or Yahoo map to show the location of the address. The customer main page includes enough information to identify the customer as the person the operator wants to work with. The information is read only. The customer information displayed on this page may include name social security number SSN birth date death date plan entry date alert directory information address information employee number and urgent notes. The customer main accounts page shows a summary of the accruals and distributions. The page is read only but may have some action items such as termination refund or alternate payee split. The customer main benefactors page lists all the benefactors on file for the customer. The page is read only. To edit the relationships it is necessary to go to the benefactors profile and then to the beneficiaries page. The customer main beneficiaries page allows the operator to work with the beneficiaries for a customer. The relationship and the dissolution details may be viewed and edited. The customer main check history page shows a list of all distribution checks and statements that have been created for the customer. The check or the statement may be viewed as an image. The customer main check replace page allows the operator to annotate or comment when a check is replaced. The customer main edit page allows the operator to edit the customer s directory listing addresses and SSNs. The customer main notes page shows all notes on the customer s file such as the date when the form 1099R was generated. The customer merge page allows the operator to merge multiple customer records into a single customer. The customer profile page allows the operator to edit details about a customer such as customer type alert and name. The customer relationship page allows the operator to edit relationship dissolution details. The popup events page allows the operator to create notifications. The popup notes page allows the operator to create notes for a customer.

The accrual account manager performs a number of tasks such as administration of contribution accounts tracking of all contribution account related transactions administration and tracking of buyback and re deposit obligations administration of reference tables and automation of employer payroll and or employment data feeds. The accrual account manager performs these functions by interacting via the accrual business rules associated with the business rule processing module . The accrual account manager includes an accrual object manager and an accrual user interface .

The accrual object manager instantiates an accrual business object . The accrual business object may be one of an account manager object an accrual account tracking object an accrual buyback base object an accrual buyback conversion object an accrual buyback correction object an accrual buyback leave without pay LWOP object an accrual buyback redeposit object an accrual employer object an accrual employment object an accrual employment event object an accrual pay period object an accrual rate calculator object an accrual reciprocal object an accrual reciprocal entity object an accrual split account object an accrual transaction object an accrual transaction amount object and an accrual transaction interest object.

The account manager object is responsible for loading summary information for accrual and distribution accounts. It basically contains a collection of data. The accrual account tracking object is responsible for tracking all financial and service credit postings. This object has a start and stop dates. It also has the ability to set up another account that future to this account may be forwarded to. The account may have an account type where the values are listed in the lookup section. Each time an employee is hired a new employment account with a child accrual account is set up and used until they are terminated. If they change employer groups during employment an additional accrual account is created. The accrual buyback base object is responsible for creating and monitoring buyback and re deposits contracts. When a new buyback is created the system creates a collection of buyback payments with amortized schedule for the contract. Each future payment is associated with a pay period. As each payment passes the scheduled amount becomes due and waits for a transaction from the employer to post the buyback amount into the transaction object. This may be a posting from the non automated payroll process. The accrual buyback conversion object extends on the accrual buyback base object to handle conversion buybacks. The accrual buyback correction object extends on the accrual buyback base object to handle correction buybacks. The accrual buyback leave without pay LWOP object extends on the accrual buyback base object to handle LWOP buybacks. The accrual buyback redeposit object extends on the accrual buyback base object to handle redeposit buybacks. The accrual employer object is used to add and maintain employer information. The accrual employment object is responsible for the addition of new employments pending or not and support the loading of summary accrual account listings. The accrual employment event object is used to add new and view existing employment events. The accrual pay period object is used to create a pay period schedule for each employer because each employer may have its own payroll. The accrual rate calculator object is used to calculate a contribution rate based on age and entry date. The accrual reciprocal object is used to add and maintain reciprocal account details for a customer. The accrual reciprocal entity object is used for standard editing of reciprocal entities. The accrual split account object is used to split an account by date. It separates a single account into two accounts based on the split date. All transactions are moved into the appropriate new accrual account. The accrual transaction object is used to process an accrual transaction. A transaction is performed every time a dollar amount or a service credit amount is added or taken away. A transaction may have multiple parts. A collection of transaction amounts is linked to the transaction where each dollar and PTSC is placed in a traceable and auditable bucket. The accrual transaction amount object represents the transaction amount or bucket. Each bucket has a type which details pre or post tax buckets. Each transaction may also be linked to an employer pay period for reporting and for ad hoc audits from the public agency staff. The transaction amount object represents where the dollars and PTSC is saved and retrieved. The accrual transaction interest object is used to calculate interest on accrual account balances.

The accrual user interface shows an accrual screen related to the accrual business object . It may interface to the UI module or incorporate the UI module to carry out UI functions. It may show one of an accrual account page an accrual account alternate payee split an accrual account buyback main page an accrual account main page am accrual account merge page an accrual account pending page an accrual account pending main page an accrual account reciprocal main page an accrual account split page an accrual buyback conversion page an accrual buyback correction page an accrual buyback LWOP page an accrual buyback redeposit page an accrual employment page an accrual employment event page an accrual employment merge page an accrual employment split page an accrual interest post page an accrual reciprocal page an accrual transaction add page an accrual transaction history page a popup accrual buyback schedule page and a popup accrual rate calculator page.

The accrual account page allows the operator to update accrual account details in an employment. It may show the start date the stop date the employer group the rate the salary the normal hours per pay period the interest type. The accrual account alternate payee split page is used to perform an alternate payee accrual account split. The accrual account buyback main page lists all the buybacks on file for a customer including active inactive and estimates. It may show a buyback type a contract date a start date a stop date payment amount the total number of payments the total number of received payments and the remaining number of payments. The accrual account main page lists all the employments and accrual accounts on file. It may show an employer group an account type employee number hire date termination date plan entry date and entry age. The accrual account merge page is used to merge multiple accrual accounts into a single accrual account. The accrual account pending page is used to edit pending information on an employment. The accrual account pending main page lists all the pending employments and accrual accounts on file. The accrual account reciprocal main page lists all reciprocal accounts on file including active inactive and invalid. The accrual account split page is used to perform a date split on an accrual account. The accrual buyback conversion page is used to set up or view a conversion buyback. The accrual buyback correction page allows the operator to set up or view a correction buyback. The accrual buyback LWOP page allows an operator to set up or view a LWOP buyback. The accrual buyback redeposit page allows an operator to set up or view a redeposit buyback. For all the buyback pages based on the information provided by the user the corresponding buyback page may display buyback information such as down payment amortized schedule of payments and approximate ending date and number of payments. The accrual employment page is used to add or modify employment details. The accrual employment event page is used to add employment events. The accrual employment merge page is used to merge multiple employment accounts into a single employment. The accrual employment split page is used to split an employment account. The accrual interest post page is used to select an employer and run the interest calculations. The accrual reciprocal page is used to add modify and inactivate reciprocal accounts. The accrual transaction add page allows the operator to add new accrual transactions and transaction amounts. This page lists all transactions that have already been created. The operator may set up the amounts and the type to be posted. The amounts and service credits may be a positive or negative value. The accrual transaction history page is used to search transactions in the system. The popup accrual buyback schedule page shows extended information about a buyback plan including a full amortized schedule a number of payments estimate listing and a detail of principal interest buildup details. The popup accrual rate calculator page is used to calculate the contribution rates.

The benefits account manager performs a number of tasks such as administration of retirement accounts management of deductions tracking of all benefit account related transactions processing and reconciliation of the benefit payroll printing checks generating printing and filing form 1099R and exporting payments via third party web enabled ACH processing. The benefits account manager performs these functions by interacting via the benefits business rules associated with the business rule processing module . The benefits account manager includes a benefits object manager and a benefits user interface .

The benefits object manager instantiates a benefits business object . The benefits business object is one of a benefit account object a benefit automated clearing house ACH account object a benefit ACH bank object a benefit account allocation object a benefit Cost Of Living Adjustment COLA object a benefit account contribution object a benefit check object and a benefit account deduction object.

The benefits user interface shows a benefit screen related to the benefits business object . It may interface to the UI module or incorporate the UI module to carry out UI functions.

The retirement benefit processing module performs a number of tasks such as setting up and maintaining a matrix of actuarial information used in retirement calculations generation and saving of multiple retirement benefit estimations conversion of estimates to a retirement allowance and generation of retirement benefits based on historical accrual account transactions. The retirement benefit processing module performs these functions by interacting via the retirements business rules associated with the business rule processing module . The retirement benefit processing module includes a conversion object manager and a conversion user interface .

The conversion object manager instantiates a conversion business object . The conversion business object may be one of a conversion annuity factor object a conversion blended retirement collection object a conversion formula group object a conversion formula group usage object a conversion high salary collection object a conversion retirement object a conversion termination refund object.

The conversion user interface shows a conversion screen related to the conversion business object . It may interface to the UI module or incorporate the UI module to carry out UI functions. The conversion screen shows one of a conversion estimate main page a conversion retirement estimator page a conversion retirement first option page a conversion retirement second option page a conversion retirement third option page a conversion retirement reserve page a conversion retirement unmodified page a conversion termination refund batch page a conversion termination refund elements page and a conversion termination refund prerequisites page.

The form and report generator exports data to forms and reports . The e mail facility originates and receives related e mails . The actuarial form generator exports actuarial information. They may interface to the business rule processing module and or the UI module 

The log in page validates a customer in the customer group . The main page is displayed after the customer is validated. The main page contains a navigation pane . The navigation pane provides navigation to one of a client personal data page an inquiries page a rate calculation page a download forms page a buyback calculation page a benefit and payment calculator page a static web data page an e business form page and a SS interface . The SS interface may utilize or integrate into any one of the business rules processing module or the UI module to apply the business rules or the UI requirements or commands

The business rule logic and interface object interfaces to at least one of one of the client administering module the communication interface the account manager the employment and payroll interface the self service Website and the UI module to apply the corresponding rules in the set of business rules .

The set of business rules includes at least a set of client business rules a set of communication business rules a set of account manager rules a set of employment and payroll interface business rules and a set of self service business rules . The set of account manager rules includes at least one of a set accrual business rules a set of benefits business rules and a set of retirement business rules . Each of these business rules is used in the associated module. For example the set of client business rules is used with the client administering module .

Upon START the process invokes an action on an object Block . For example a user e.g. PT staff may open a page to enter address of a client set up a beneficiary to compute the death benefit if the deceased member is eligible to retire etc. Next the process determines if the action involves a business rule Block . If not the process is terminated. Otherwise the process applies the business rule Block . For example if the user enters the address of a client the action may involve an address rule e.g. address rules as shown in . Therefore the address rule may be applied.

Then the process determines if the action follows the business rule Block . For example if the user enters more than one active contact data of each type of contact information the action may not follow one of the contact information rules which prohibit multiple active contact data. If the action follows the business rule the process processes or performs the business rule Block and is then terminated. Otherwise the process reports an error or displays a warning message Block and is then terminated.

The address rules may include rules to allow a client to have multiple addresses to assign a type of an address to allow a client to have only one active or current address of each type to use a mailing address provided in the employment and payroll database as a default address and to allow an inactive address to be re activated.

The contact information rules may include rules to prohibit a client to have multiple active contact data of each type and to assign a type of contact data. The contact type may be any one of phone number home fax number work fax number home e mail address work e mail address and cell phone number.

The customer profile rules may include rules to allow a client to have a unique identifier in the system to create a client from an automated payroll feed to allow a PT user to create manually a pending member an alternate payee or a dependent beneficiary with appropriate permissions to calculate the pension trust service credits PTSC for an active member when in receipt of scheduled payroll data based on the employer group e.g. employer bargaining unit member classification benefit group member time type e.g. full time half time etc. and contribution rate to calculate the interest on the beginning balance of the contribution for the members and reserve participants on scheduled payroll dates before the most recently received contributions are applied to the account to lock down the customer data results from the automated payroll feed except with an executive override role to allow data from the payroll feeds to overwrite any user changed data for the data fields received from the payroll to allow a PT user to add or edit any additional address types other than the one received in employer payroll feeds and other non employer provided information to customers created from automated data feeds to allow a customer to be identifiable as one of a member retiree disability suspense reserve reciprocal reserve reciprocal in leave without pay LWOP dependent spouse beneficiary or survivor not mutually exclusive to track the vested status of a customer to allow duplicate SSNs to be entered to send notifications on duplicate SSNs to send notifications when any of the following information is changed SSN name gender marital status date of birth bargaining unit member classification contribution rate payment address status to set triggers on birth date to provide notification of major events and to trigger notifications calendar days in advance of a major event. The PTSC may be computed as hours worked less overtime normal hours factor where overtime is any hours exceeding 80 in a two week pay period for any time type.

The pending member rules may include rules to provide a notification if a pending member is in the system and no matching record is received in subsequent data feeds from the employer and to provide a notification if a new member record is received in a data feed for which there is no pending member in the system.

The link relationships rules may include rules to allow a pension trust user with rights to see and navigate relationship links that exist between clients in the system.

The search function rules may include rules to search on any of the following fields of data from the advance search page SSN or Tax ID name last name first name or entity name benefit paycheck number employee ID birth date and employer group to populate more than one field in the above to narrow the search to take the user directly to a customer record if a single match on search criteria is made to include pending members in the search results and to clear all previously entered search criteria.

The forms and letter rule create the forms and letters with the associated security roles buyback letters PT Staff acceptance of funds letter PT Staff reciprocity related letters PT Staff termination letters PT Staff death related letters PT Staff layoff related letters PT Staff address confirmation letter PT Staff direct payee letters PT Staff income statement letter PT Staff age 65 letter PT Staff benefit reduction letter PT Staff direct deposit related letters PT Staff workers comp letter Buyback Manager active death letters PT Staff tax related letters forms PT Staff additional contributions letter PT Staff termination refund letters PT Staff multi purpose change form PT Staff retirement related letter Benefits Counselor Estimate lump sum death benefit forms and retirement estimate election forms.

The look up and data reference manager rules may include rules to allow files uploaded to the system to be complete replacements of former data to support further future granularity of employer group such as SAPs benefit groups to allow a look up manager role to add or modify look up tables and to allow an administrator role to upload data reference files.

The log on and password rules may include rules to allow only valid users to login and open the application to set password changes not mandatory and to set a session timeout time to be a pre determined time period e.g. 8 hours 

The customer notes rules may include rules to automatically post a note when the following data is changed member classification bargaining unit SSN name payroll address account transactions and marital status to allow a user to initiate a note when in any part of the system to allow a user to mark unmark a note for high visibility to prohibit a user to edit a note to prohibit a user to delete a note to purge notes according to pension trust defined parameters to require a user to attach a note to an existing client record before exiting notes to limit a note to a pre determined number of characters e.g. 2 000 characters and to provide an option to open edit attach a system form letter or a document on the user s desktop.

The operator and system notifications rules may include at least a rule to allow a user to assign a notification to appear on his or her personal list or on that of another system user.

The pension trust operator rules may include at least a rule to allow only PT administrators to setup or edit Operator profiles.

The operator security rules may include at least a rule to allow only PT administrators to setup or edit operator security role profiles.

The distribution accounts are the heart of the Pension Trust s distribution of retirement and benefit payments. They exist for anyone receiving a recurring or one time payment from the Pension Trust. This does not apply to payment of administrative expenses which are handled outside this system.

The distribution account rules may include rules to allow a client to have accrual accounts and distribution accounts at the same time to allow a client to have multiple distribution accounts to allow one or more accrual accounts to contribute to the retirement distribution account to allow a distribution account to be divided manually by an operator between a retiree and an alternate payee to subject the distribution accounts to COLA increases to allow an operator to schedule a one time payment outside of the PT payroll schedule to default the recurring allowances and benefits to the monthly pension trust payroll schedule to default the recurring payments to no stop date to designate primary and contingent beneficiaries for a periodic distribution with defined exceptions to prohibit beneficiaries to name a beneficiary for a beneficiary allowance to prohibit a survivor to name a beneficiary for a survivor continuance allowance to provide a message to the operator after modifying beneficiary information for beneficiaries associated with a retiree receiving option 2 or 3 retirement benefits reminding the operator to recalculate the allowance to limit industrial disabilities to members in Safety new collective bargaining agreements to provide a notification when a customer who receives a 10.06 payment has a change in salary which allows the operator to recalculate and implement an offset transaction to the 10.06 payment to use the payment address type a default address time if there is no payment address type entered the system as a default address rule for mailing physical check payments to allow deductions and allocations to be taken from the distribution payment and to select a distribution account detailed summary if there is only one in the distribution account detailed summary dropdown list or to select a distribution account detailed summary as selected by the user.

Regarding the manual division rule such a split results in two separate distribution accounts. The operator makes a notation on the alternate payee account regarding contributing accrual accounts as there is no link and manually adjust the retire allowance and set up the alternate payee allowance.

The pension trust applies interest to accrual account balances i.e. contributions plus interest in accrual accounts belonging to members alternate payees reserve and reciprocal reserve participants. The pension trust applies interest on a pay period schedule but not on the most recent pay roll feed since funds need to be on deposit for a pay period before interest is applied. Interest jobs are however dependent on payroll feeds being successfully accepted and contributions posted. They therefore follow a linear schedule. However the actual date the interest job was run could vary and is controlled by the PT.

The accrual accounts interest rules may include rules to compute the effective date that the interest shows to be the pay date plus one day to apply interest calculations to accrual account balances of normal and additional contributions and previously posted interest including buyback transactions and adjustments that have been posted up to the day before the effective date to apply interest on qualifying funds in accrual accounts for members reserve participants alternate payees and reciprocal reserve participants to apply interest to all qualifying accounts whether or not contributions were received for the member in the payroll period for which the interest job is run such as when the member is on Leave Without Pay LWOP to prevent interest from being posted out of order and to prevent interest from being posted on a subsequent payroll if the previous payroll s has not been accepted and interest applied.

The pension trust requires the ability to allocate distribution payments to the destinations indicated by a plan participant or a court order. Payments may be made with a physical check or via electronic fund transfer to the plan participant and or a payee that they designate. There are two types of allocations allocations to the participant s own accounts and allocations to third parties. Allocations to a participant s own accounts may be accomplished by ACH or by physical check. Allocations to third parties may be by physical check. For example a participant may elect to split the deposit of his her monthly payment between multiple bank accounts e.g. their own . There may also be a need to allocate part of the same payment to court ordered child or spousal support lien or other type of garnishment. The allocations rules include at least one of a system level allocation rule to prioritize allocations along with deductions at the system level by the administrator and an account level allocation rule to prioritize allocations at the individual distribution account level by an operator with the proper role assigned along with deductions.

Banking information supports electronic fund transfer of payments to a client. It includes current ACH bank information and instructions for distribution of funds between client bank accounts. The banking information rules may include rules to 

The beneficiary information allows the PT to associate a beneficiary with the benefactor client record. Beneficiary in the broadest sense used here includes spouse eligible survivor or not dependent child eligible survivor or not other eligible survivors such as dependent parent and any named beneficiary whether a person entity or the client s estate. The operator determines eligibility. The beneficiary information rules may include rules to

A cost of living adjustment COLA may be applied on a yearly basis to decrease or increase monthly allowances being paid from a benefit distribution account at a percentage determined by the Board of Trustees. COLAs are not applied to 10.06 allowances in lieu of disability. A maximum annual adjustment defined by the plan e.g. 3 determines how much of the increase or decrease is applied against the allowance being paid from a benefit distribution account. The cost of living adjustment COLA rules may include rules to 

Pension trust customers may designate beneficiaries to receive death benefits in the event of death. The customers may be members alternate payees reserve participants or reciprocal reserve participants with funds in their accrual accounts or retired participants who are recipients of service disability industrial disability retirement allowances or beneficiaries or eligible survivors who receive survivor continuances. Typically the PT staff receives notification of a death or a request to estimate death benefits . The PT staff then determines the participant s account status and roughly calculates the amount that will be received. If recording an actual death the PT will calculate the final payment s due from the pension trust if any provide official notification to the survivor beneficiary s with a settlement form for indicating payout option depending on the scenario and distribute the benefits on receipt of the settlement form. The death recording rules may include rules to 

Deceased Member eligible to retire If there is no eligible survivor pay the basic death benefit to the beneficiary s or estate not payable before retirement if there is an eligible surviving spouse the spouse may elect to receive the basic death benefit OR may elect to receive the option two allowance 100 continuance calculated as though the member retired on the date of death OR may elect to receive 50 of the unmodified allowance calculated as though the member retired on the date of death.

Deceased inactive Reserve or Suspense participant Pay the amounts residing in their accounts inactive member death benefit unless the death occurs within 4 months 120 days of the separation from county service. In that case the basic death benefit is paid.

Deceased Retiree with an Unmodified Allowance If there is an eligible survivor pay a recurring death benefit to the survivor 50 of the current monthly allowance including COLAs . Pay the 1000 death benefit to the designated beneficiary or to the estate Note if there is no eligible survivor the 1000 death benefit is the only payable death benefit. .

Deceased Retiree with an Option One Allowance If there is no eligible survivor pay an amount equal to 100 of the remaining accumulated normal contributions to the beneficiary s or estate pay the 1000 death benefit to the designated beneficiary or to the estate if there is an eligible survivor and the annuity portion of the cumulative retirement allowance payments up to the date of death are 

Deceased Retiree with an Option Two Allowance If there is no eligible survivor or beneficiary pay the 1000 death benefit to the estate. If there is a named beneficiary for the option 2 benefit but no eligible survivor pay the option two retirement allowance. If there is a named beneficiary for the option 2 benefit and an eligible survivor could be different people Pay the eligible survivor a recurring death benefit 50 of the unmodified allowance 50 of COLAs received pay the beneficiary the option two allowance less the payment awarded to the eligible survivor pay the beneficiary named for the 1000.00 death benefit the 1000.00 death benefit. If the eligible survivor is also named beneficiary pay the actuarially reduced option two allowance see original calculations . If the survivor is a dependent child attaining 18 years of age the recurring death benefit is subsequently reduced to an amount option 2 allowance 50 of the unmodified allowance pay the beneficiary named for the 1000.00 death benefit the 1000.00 death benefit.

Deceased Retiree with an Option Three Allowance If there is no eligible survivor or beneficiary pay the 1000 death benefit to the estate. If there is a named beneficiary for the option 3 benefit but no eligible survivor pay 50 of the Option. Three retirement allowance pay the beneficiary named for the 1000.00 death benefit the 1000.00 death benefit. If there is a named beneficiary for the option 3 benefit and an eligible survivor could be different people pay the eligible survivor a recurring death benefit 50 of the unmodified allowance 50 of COLAs received pay the beneficiary the option three allowance less the payment awarded to the eligible survivor 2 pay the beneficiary named for the 1000.00 death benefit the 1000.00 death benefit. If the eligible survivor is also named beneficiary pay 50 of the unmodified Allowance plus 0.5 option three total allowance less 50 of the unmodified Allowance . If the survivor is a dependent child attaining 18 years of age the recurring death benefit is subsequently reduced to an amount option 3 allowance 50 of the unmodified allowance 

Deceased Eligible Spouse receiving a Survivor Allowance If the eligible spouse is was receiving a benefit due to death before retirement of an active member then the eligible surviving children receive the survivor continuance until the youngest one turns 18. If at that time the total benefits paid are less than the amount of the original basic death benefit BDB then the remainder of the BDB is paid to the children or estate in a lump sum. If the total amount paid through the date of the survivor s death is greater than the original BDB the monthly payments cease. If the eligible spouse was receiving the survivor continuance benefit as a result of death of a retired participant then the payment of survivor benefit ceases on the date of the survivors death.

The pension trust supports the deduction of health insurance premiums for medical dental and vision care from the monthly disability or retirement payment. Pension trust staff will determine if retired participants and or beneficiaries are eligible to enroll in the health plans offered through the county. The employer may pay part of the premium paid for health insurance based on the eligibility of the participant AND the bargaining unit in which the retired participant was most recently employed. The health insurance deductions rules may include rules to 

The distribution payroll processing rules provide rules to perform operations related to distribution payroll processing. These rules may include the following 

The physical distribution payroll checks rules include rules to allow an operator with a manager role to void individual checks or statements after printing to show checks that have a net amount

The non recurring special payroll checks rules include rules to perform operations related to the non recurring special payroll checks. These rules may include the following 

The re hire calculations and conversions rules may include rules applied for re hire. The pension trust needs the ability to handle rehires. There may be three types of rehires 1 a client who was laid off and returns to work within PT parameters 2 a client who quits and returns to work and 3 a retiree who returns to work The third type is called a reinstatement. The re hire calculations and conversions rules may include rules to notify of a rehire review pay period history identify missing PTSC for full and or partial pay periods based on PTSC for planned normal hours for the time type in the employer group that laid off the member and calculate PTSC for the lay off period.

During the new hire process PT staff may identify what accrual and distribution accounts exist ed to determine next functions. If the new hire process was omitted the operator will have a notification that an accrual account is received for new employment for which there was no pending member record providing another opportunity to review the accounts. The operator may then analyze if PTSC need to be adjusted for a former laid off client with accrual account balances returning to employment with any employer group under the pension trust plan within 12 months of layoff. They may also determine if it is a returning suspense member who may pay interest. If the returning employee had previous service under the plan that had been refunded the system should so indicate that as well.

The automated payroll rules include rules to take data from an employer who has a contract with the pension trust stage the data for validation and to import the data into the production database.

The self service SS log on rules include rules that perform SS logon operations at the self service website . Typically a logon is not required to view the home page view static pages view print download static forms use the simple benefit calculator view and use the rate calculator initiate inquiries and calculate a buyback no customer in context. An SS operator logon is required to view the operator s personal profile and demographic information accounts relationship and beneficiary designations 1099Rs calculate service retirement benefits and fill out and submit web forms e.g. requests for buyback request for retirement estimate and change personal data .

An SS EP operator like a regular SS operator has permission to view his her own records and use the same functions features available to an SS operator. They may not view any other participant s records. The SS and SS EP operators may not view a beneficiary s information. An SS customer may initiate on line registration which results in system creation of a login ID. Typically SS EP users are set up by the pension trust. The system prevents duplicate registrations. The SS client may be authenticated during the registration process before a login ID is provided. SS logons created through the on line registration method may have a default SS security role. A PT operator with rights may create and modify an SS operator login ID and or password. The system may assign as logon IDs the e mail address provided during the registration process. SS Operator passwords may be alphanumeric up to a pre determined number of characters in length with a minimum length of characters and any combination of characters numbers etc.

The SS client personal data rules may include rules to allow a logged in self service user to view much of their customer information and modify a very limited set of their information. The information available for viewing may include self service user ID customer profile of name SSN address phone number s email addresses plan entry date birth date accrual account information accrual transaction history accrual employment events distribution account information and summary check history 1099R history annual report member detail report current buyback contracts type total payments remaining balance remaining payments recurring payment amount . The information available for modified may include the user ID and password.

The SS look and feel rules include rules to provide look and feel functionality. These rules may include the following 

The UI logic object interfaces to at least one of one of the client administering module the communication interface the account manager the employment and payroll interface the self service website and the business rule processing module to activate or apply the corresponding functions in the set of UI functions .

The set of UI functions includes at least a set of client UI functions a set of communication UI functions a set of account manager UI functions a set of employment and payroll interface UI functions and a set of self service UI functions . The set of account manager UI functions includes at least one of a set accrual UI functions a set of benefits UI functions and a set of retirement UI functions . Each of these UI functions is used in the associated module. For example the set of client UI functions is used with the client administering module .

The UI functions may include a UI action and a UI display . The UI action and the UI display are interfaced to the user interface of the associated module or object such as the operator UI the customer UI the accrual UI the benefits UI and the conversion UI . The UI of the various modules or objects may include interfaces to entry input devices such as keyboard mouse etc. or display screen. The UI functions may include functions that are provided by the business rules in the associated modules.

The UI action performs an action in response to the user s or operator s input. An action may be any suitable action such as generating a command clicking a mouse entering an entry selecting an option navigating through pages editing uploading a file downloading a file etc 

The UI display provides a display function on the appropriate window or page such as pre populating data highlighting showing a dropdown list etc.

The address UI functions include a function to display components of the client address such as address line 1 address line 2 city state or province and postal code.

The contact information UI functions include a function to display telephone numbers with separation between area code prefix and last four digits. The format of the telephone numbers is automatically performed.

The customer profile UI functions may include functions to attach a note to the customer marked to always appear when accessing the customer record high visibility note to display the customer s relationships in summary fashion when on the benefactor or beneficiaries pages to display the customer s accounts in summary fashion when on the accrual account and distribution pages and to prominently display member class and bargaining unit on the customer main page

The pending member UI functions may include the action and or display functions to allow the user to enter new pending members to input and save pending member member class employer and bargaining unit to input and save pending member plan entry date age to enter and save pending member first name middle initial and last name SSN reciprocal system information and or former PT information and to calculate the contribution rate based on the operator entries.

The link relationships UI functions may include display functions to display the relationship s first middle name if any and last name on the Relationship page relationship type e.g. spouse child etc. on the relationship page for a relationship and benefit qualification e.g. survivor beneficiary none on the relationship page for a relationship and action functions to allow the user to click on a relationship to access the client profile associated with the relationship and to allow the user to navigate to and from the client and relationship record.

The search function UI functions may include display functions to display search results sorted from ascending to descending and back and action functions to perform the following 

The look up and data reference manager UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The accrual accounts interest UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The cost of living adjustment COLA UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The health insurance deductions UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The distribution payroll processing UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The non recurring special payroll checks UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The automated clearing house ACH payments UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The pay period history report UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The check reconciliation and paid check report UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The outstanding and stale check report UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The estimated unmodified report UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The estimated benefit calculations factors report UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The estimator page calculations and conversions UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The calculations page calculations and conversions UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The unmodified page calculations and conversions UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The option one calculations and conversions UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The option two calculations and conversions UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The option three calculations and conversions UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The estimate calculation conversion UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The re hire calculations and conversions UI functions may include the action and or display functions to notify a rehire review pay period history calculate PTSC for the laid off period.

The reserves calculations and conversions UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The data import process automated payroll UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The non automated payroll NAP UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The SS rate and benefits calculators UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

The SS inquiries forms and static data UI functions may include the following action and or display functions 

Elements of embodiments of the invention may be implemented by hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. The term hardware generally refers to an element having a physical structure such as electronic electromagnetic optical electro optical mechanical electro mechanical parts components or devices etc. The term software generally refers to a logical structure a method a procedure a program a routine a process an algorithm a formula a function an expression etc. The term firmware generally refers to a logical structure a method a procedure a program a routine a process an algorithm a formula a function an expression etc. that is implemented or embodied in a hardware structure e.g. flash memory . Examples of firmware may include microcode writable control store micro programmed structure. When implemented in software or firmware the elements of an embodiment of the present invention are essentially the code segments to perform the necessary tasks. The software firmware may include the actual code to carry out the operations described in one embodiment of the invention or code that emulates or simulates the operations. The program or code segments may be stored in a processor or machine accessible medium or transmitted by a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave or a signal modulated by a carrier over a transmission medium. The processor readable or accessible medium or machine readable or accessible medium may include any medium that may store transmit or transfer information. Examples of the processor readable or machine accessible medium include an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a read only memory ROM a flash memory an erasable ROM EROM an erasable programmable ROM EPROM a floppy diskette a compact disk CD ROM an optical disk a hard disk a fiber optic medium a radio frequency RF link etc. The computer data signal may include any signal that may propagate over a transmission medium such as electronic network channels optical fibers air electromagnetic RF links etc. The code segments may be downloaded via computer networks such as the Internet Intranet etc. The machine accessible medium may be embodied in an article of manufacture. The machine accessible medium may include data that when accessed by a machine cause the machine to perform the operations described above. The machine accessible medium may also include program code embedded therein. The program code may include machine readable code to perform the operations described above. The term data here refers to any type of information that is encoded for machine readable purposes. Therefore it may include program code data file etc.

All or part of an embodiment of the invention may be implemented by hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof. The hardware software or firmware element may have several modules coupled to one another. A hardware module is coupled to another module by mechanical electrical optical electromagnetic or any physical connections. A software module is coupled to another module by a function procedure method subprogram or subroutine call a jump a link a parameter variable and argument passing a function return etc. A software module is coupled to another module to receive variables parameters arguments pointers etc. and or to generate or pass results updated variables pointers etc. A firmware module is coupled to another module by any combination of hardware and software coupling methods above. A hardware software or firmware module may be coupled to any one of another hardware software or firmware module. A module may also be a software driver or interface to interact with the operating system running on the platform. A module may also be a hardware driver to configure set up initialize send and receive data to and from a hardware device. An apparatus may include any combination of hardware software and firmware modules.

While the invention has been described in terms of several embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described but may be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

