---

title: Attention economy for attention to messages, tasks and resources
abstract: A centrally tracked artificial currency is provided within the context of an enterprise. This currency serves as a unit of account, medium of exchange, and store of value in a corporate “attention economy.” Users (typically coworkers) in the enterprise are allotted a base number of currency units, which they can earn, exchange, and spend in a variety of ways to signal importance and “purchase” attention of others, or priority for other organization resources. In one aspect, senders of messages can specify an amount of currency to be associated with the message, so that recipients can see the specified amount before deciding whether to read the message. Once such a system is in use, it facilitates exchange of value based on user-created transactions regarding behavior, communication, resources, incentives, and priorities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07918388&OS=07918388&RS=07918388
owner: Seriosity, Inc.
number: 07918388
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070518
---
This patent application claims priority as a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 339 814 filed Jan. 24 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 240 826 which claimed priority from the following provisional patent applications the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference 

The disclosure of pending U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 339 814 is incorporated herein by reference.

In the modern enterprise information workers are inundated with electronic information much of which is unnecessary and undesired. This information overload occurs because sending electronic information usually through e mail has little cost. In general each individual in the enterprise acts in his or her own interest when presented with a public good or resource a phenomenon known in economic terms as the Tragedy of the Commons. The cumulative effect of each person acting in their individual interest is that the common resource becomes overused and loses value to the community as is the case of an overgrazed common pasture. Thus workers see the e mail system as very low cost way of getting other s attention regardless of the significance of their communication to others. As a result most workers receive excessive amounts of e mail from their coworkers and from others informing them of perhaps trivial developments. The attention of an organization s employees is a vital resource that has suffered from overuse due to the essentially unlimited availability of electronic mail. In addition to the problem of commercial spam many information workers are overwhelmed by the volume of corporate spam messages from within their own organization.

A system that allows a sender to signal the importance of an e mail to the recipient is desired. Current systems do not address the Commons problem because the signals that are available e.g. priority flags do not impose a cost on the sender and so the weight of their signal loses impact over time. In other words the state of being flagged as a priority in current systems also carries little information to the recipient because it imposes no cost on the creator. Filters and intelligent agents have been proposed to deal with email overload but require a high level of user maintenance and cannot take into consideration the psychology of interpersonal relationships.

Resources other than an individual s attention within an organization are allocated by various mechanisms many of which fail to operate efficiently. Important projects requiring use of a limited resource may wait in line behind low priority ones because there is often no queuing mechanism other than first come first serve or based on other management policies. There is a need for a system that instantiates a more effective allocation mechanism based on the objective function of the organization. In short a system that allows an individual to make demands on organization resources appropriate to his or her estimation of the possible gains for the organization would allow for increased efficiency and progress toward organization goals.

What is needed therefore is a system and method that allows or forces a sender of a message to reliably indicate the priority level of a message. The intended recipient can use these value laden signals to then determine how much attention to devote to the message.

According to the techniques of one embodiment a centrally tracked artificial currency is provided within the context of an enterprise. This currency serves as a unit of account medium of exchange and store of value in a corporate attention economy. Alternatively a currency can be used to measure exchange and reward behavior and other attributes of action in an enterprise. Users typically coworkers in the enterprise are allocated by some method a number of currency units also referred to herein as Serios which they can earn exchange and spend in a variety of ways to signal importance and purchase attention of others or priority for other organization resources. For example senders of email messages or other types of message can allocate a number of currency units to their messages. Recipients can decide whether or not to look at messages based at least in part on the number of currency units allocated to the messages. Recipients can even configure their email clients to filter out messages that have fewer than a designated number of currency units.

In one embodiment of the invention currency allowance and exchange is processed through a central bookkeeping server that keeps track of all transactions and balances of individual workers. The currency can also be used by individuals to purchase bid for or use desired resources and assets within the organization including for example the attention or time of other individuals data services tools and space. The currency can also be used when individuals interact with a computer or programs running on the computer or as part of the information exchanged between many computers even when an individual is not involved

In one embodiment the mechanisms through which currency is earned and spent can be carefully observed and engineered to drive desired behavior. In this embodiment a system that creates liquidity of assets and currency allows for emergent behaviors to arise which may ultimately benefit the organization when the organization s performance management systems have aligned individual with organizational objective functions. In this fashion currency exchange becomes a voting mechanism by which individuals indicate relative value of the organization s resources reflected in the resulting price in that currency of goods and services. Those skilled in the art will recognize that this invention can be used with filters and agent based systems for managing electronic communication.

The features and advantages described in this summary and the following detailed description are not all inclusive. Many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings and specification hereof.

One skilled in the art will recognize that these Figures are merely examples of the operation of the invention according to various embodiments and that other architectures and modes of operation can be used without departing from the essential characteristics of the invention.

For purposes of the description provided herein the term Serios is used interchangeably with currency units. For illustrative purposes the following description sets forth the invention in terms of an attention economy currency however one skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention can be practiced with other types of currency other media of exchange and or tangible or non tangible representations of value to an individual in an organization. For illustrative purposes the following description sets forth the invention in terms of an information worker in a corporate environment however the invention can be used in connection with individuals in other environments communicating over any medium.

In one embodiment the present invention is implemented as a software based system that has the following attributes and features 

Presentation of metadata on the currency units and exchanges including analytics and graphical presentation of social metrics and econometrics that characterize the attention economy at the enterprise. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting a system architecture and message trace for implementing the present invention according to one embodiment. Sender interacts with e mail client to send an e mail message or other type of message addressed to recipient . E mail server handles the processing of e mail messages and routes the message to e mail client associated with recipient . Bookkeeper and repository are used for managing the attention economy currency and transactions as will be described in more detail below.

According to one embodiment of the present invention currency is used as a means to value an electronic message s importance a sender determines how much he or she wishes to spend in an effort to purchase the recipient s attention. Senders of messages such as e mail Instant Messages SMS Text or the like can choose to attach these currency units to a message as an indicator of the message s relative importance. The number of currency units a sender can attach is constrained by the number in his or her account and by sender s desire to pay for others attention to a particular message. Sender may specify the number of units to be spent via any user interface mechanism including for example drop down menus text input boxes or other convenient means. For messages having multiple recipients a different number of units can be allotted to each recipient if desired. In one embodiment a transfer is made of that number of units from sender s account to each recipient s account. The transfer can take place in response to any trigger event concerning the message including for example 

In one embodiment different amounts of currency can be specified for different trigger events. For example one unit can be transferred upon sending and another three units can be transferred when recipient reads the message. Sender of the message can specify the trigger events and the number of units for each trigger event.

In one embodiment currency is transferred to central repository or removed from circulation altogether rather than being transferred to recipient . In yet another embodiment some portion of the currency is transferred to central repository or removed from circulation altogether and the remaining amount is transferred to recipient . In this latter embodiment the amount that is not transferred to recipient can be referred to as a tax or a toll. Currency can be unified across organizations if desired so that one organization recognizes the currency and transactions managed by a bookkeeper of another organization.

In one embodiment transfers are made by bookkeeper which functions as an intermediate administrator. In one embodiment bookkeeper is implemented as a collection of computer executable modules executing on e mail server or on another server not shown . Bookkeeper manages transactions of currency from one user to another i.e. between sender and receiver as well as with repository . Upon receiving a message recipient can see sender s assessment of the message s significance in terms of the number of units of currency attached to the message as well as the units credited to his or her own account. The attached currency units will be transferred to recipient whether recipient decides to read the message or not. In another embodiment the recipient may not receive the currency until they open the email or act on some other trigger event.

Sender will understand that a given recipient will evaluate the importance of his or her message on several factors in addition to the number of units attached including but not limited to sender s name subject other recipients and title of any attachments.

In one embodiment bookkeeper disburses currency to users and is the mechanism through which transactions occur. Bookkeeper is also capable of performing or assisting with statistical analysis based on transaction information and making this information visible to users. Bookkeeper is adapted to disburse currency to users on any periodic e.g. weekly or event driven basis.

Recipients may also reply to messages with currency attached where recipient is using some portion of their currency balance to signal sender the value recipient placed on the original message or to convey appreciation or reward. If desired a default number of currency units can be allocated to a reply as specified in the user s preferences although recipient can modify this amount as desired for a particular reply. Used in this way the system could deliver quantitative feedback to the originator and information to the community on the usefulness of communication between individuals.

When an e mail is forwarded to other recipients currency units can be allocated in the same way as a new message.

Currency is used as a signal of value understood by both sender and recipient where value is an indicator of importance credibility and priority. Recipient can judge the message s value based on sender s expenditure of a limited resource. Recipient is able to compare the relative importance of various messages based on these criteria.

One way the value of currency units can be established is by allowing individuals to communicate private treaty transactions to bookkeeper in which the units are exchanged for goods and service other than attention to messages. For example using Serios a manufacturing manager may bid for or purchase a serial position in any queue related to a scarce resource such as time on a testing machine. Alternatively the corporation may offer a perquisite such as a preferred parking spot or time with the boss for a number of currency units. Prizes can be auctioned or sold for currency units by supervisors team leaders or anyone in the organization to establish value for the currency or take units of currency out of the system. Currency exchange between individuals may emerge as a result of using this system. Financial services such as banking currency exchange lending insurance and futures markets may be facilitated by bookkeeper .

The invention is described herein for illustrative purposes only as an e mail and or desktop application that has or facilitates client server interaction. A central or distributed server communicates with a desktop application that facilitates accounting when clients exchange electronic mail. In another embodiment the architecture is based on peer to peer communication rather than relying upon a central server. In another embodiment a plug in or add on could be embedded within e mail clients themselves rather than existing as an independent piece of software.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention can also be implemented in connection with other communication media including but not limited to e mail instant messaging telephone voice voice mail voice transmitted over the Internet paper correspondence fax telegraph via mobile devices like mobile phones and personal data assistants web based mail forums and message boards internet relay chat real time website enabled chat online shopping portals to purchase bid for or give feedback regarding website resources and content as a component in a platform or browser system publishing systems such as wikis and blogs in virtual worlds or environments in games including but not limited to electronic games board games and live action games in face to face meetings via tokens or informal records and the like or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment client is an email software client programmed with particular features that facilitate implementation of the present invention or may be an already existing e mail client product such as Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes Netmail Eudora Pro or Mozilla Thunderbird with customized add ons that help provide the functions described herein. Client may be a software process other than an email system such as a collaboration environment group shareware and enterprise software including for example enterprise resource planning ERP software customer relationship management CRM software interactive voice response IVR systems and workflow management systems. Client may be a standalone application that performs standard message sending and receiving functions which interfaces with a separate desktop application that bridges communication between client and bookkeeper server. At the most basic level client remains a tool for users to check and send electronic messages. It can include any of the following features or it can communicate with a separate application that performs the following tasks organizational features for scheduling task keeping calendars address books contact lists groupware group collaboration tools features to accommodate the receiving and display of news items and organization and display features for media such as photographs digital images video audio and web pages. In addition it may have additional features to accommodate web logs blogs or journals RSS feeds character avatar or profile information a bank account summary text based chat voice over IP corporate tasks and projects markets milestones maps search language tools news audio video digital media navigation tools two dimensional or three dimensional graphical user interfaces and or worlds where the world is a computer simulated environment in which users may interact with others explore socialize achieve compete and perform tasks. Additional customizable add ons or programmable modules to the message client can be swapped or installed. In one embodiment this invention operates in a web enabled environment where messages currency transactions are initiated and recognized via a web browser or other thin client.

Client may be web based and will assume the same generic functionality as a software client counterpart even though implementation details may differ.

In one embodiment client is able to communicate directly with bookkeeper and access the user s account summary which can display his or her currency balance and income statement. In another embodiment client can communicate with a separate desktop application that mediates transactions between client and bookkeeper . In any case currency that is spent or received can be immediately updated in real time to reflect an accurate account statement. It is also possible for users to access and view in real time lists of people who have credited currency units to themselves or others.

In one embodiment a user can have more than one account. For example he or she can have a different account for each of his or her email addresses or other handles for communication means.

As is well known in the art of message client software users are able to sort and organize their messages based on several fields. In the case of email these include the date received sender name message subject and priority flags for example. Users are able to select which fields are visible in what order they appear and how messages are sorted based on those fields. According to one embodiment of the invention an additional field is provided in the user interface presentation of an e mail inbox and in the user interface presentation of individual e mail messages that displays the number of currency units attached to a particular message.

Referring now to there is shown an example of the user interface for such a Client . The user interface here illustrates the e mail inbox. Columns are illustrated indicating sender subject received timestamp and Serios In this figure and others the units of currency are called Serios though any other name may be used as well. The Serios column indicates the number of currency units attached to the message. As with other fields users can sort their messages by the number of units. Unlike other fields e.g. priority this value represents a valuation made by sender on the importance of the message a value that carries with it a correspondent cost to sender and benefit to recipient . In the upper right hand corner is displayed the user s current currency balance again in Serios.

Referring also to there is shown an example of user interface wherein messages are sorted according to the number of currency units attached to each message. One skilled in the art will recognize that user interface can also filter messages according to the number of currency units so that messages having fewer than some specified amount are not shown or are moved to a different folder or window.

Referring now to there are shown screen shots depicting an example of an email composition window including a mechanism such as a drop down menu or text input box for specifying the number of currency units to be assigned to an email message. In next to each recipient name is a drop down menu element which appears in the figure as a small triangle. Clicking on menu element causes drop down menu to appear as shown in . Drop down menu enables sender to specify the number of currency units to be provided to the specific recipient by selecting among the various values shown in menu . In one embodiment a text input box also appears allowing sender to type in a value rather than selecting one from menu . Thus sender can differentially price the message according to recipient paying a higher price in a bid for the attention of particular individuals e.g. the CEO . Client performs necessary credit checks through means of communication with bookkeeper to ensure adequate funds exist for sender to attach a requested number of units. If sender attempts to allocate more currency units than are available an error message is displayed. Referring also to there is shown an example of a dialog box showing an error message indicating that sender has attempted to allocate more currency units than are available.

In one embodiment for e mails with multiple recipients a menu element appears for each recipient . Sender can thereby specify a number of currency units for each recipient . If currency units are added to the last recipient on the list the designated amount is used for all recipients . Referring also to there is shown an example of an email message composition window wherein different numbers of currency units are shown alongside different recipient names .

For mailing lists a single currency unit allocation can be specified. This currency unit allocation is then used for each member of the list. In one embodiment a calculation is performed to determine the total number of currency units and sender is given an opportunity to confirm that he or she is willing to expend the total as shown. Referring also to there is shown an example of an email message composition window wherein a sender has indicated a mailing list as recipient. Dialog box includes a message informing sender of the total number of currency units that will be charged. Sender can click on OK button to proceed or Cancel button to cancel.

In one embodiment once currency units are allocated for recipients the number of currency units allocated is displayed in parenthesis next to each recipient s name or e mail address.

Referring now to there is shown an alternative example of a composition window in which toolbar buttons are provided for adding currency units to a message determining the assigned number of currency units and checking sender s account balance respectively.

Referring now to there an example of an alternative user interface element for specifying a number of currency units to be allocated for an e mail message. Here the user can see and or specify addressees for an e mail message including To addressees cc addressees and bcc addressees . In each section the user can see and or specify the addressee s name and email address and can see and or specify the number of currency units to be allocated for each addressee.

In one embodiment whenever an individual receives currency units for example by having received or read a message that has currency units attached the recipient of the currency units is alerted as to the transaction. For example an alert box may appear on the individual s screen stating John Smith has sent you 20 Serios . Referring also to there is shown an example of user interface including alert message informing recipient that he has received Serios. In one embodiment individuals can configure their systems so as to specify whether and how to receive such alerts.

In one embodiment when recipient opens or views an e mail message that includes currency units the number of currency units is displayed in or alongside the window containing the e mail message. Referring also to there is shown an e mail message display window including an indication of the number of currency units allocated to the e mail message.

Referring again to there is shown a message trace for the process of sending a message from a sender to a recipient in one embodiment. When sender indicates that an email message is to be sent e mail client sends the appropriate information to e mail Server arrow . In one embodiment one copy of the electronic message containing a set of information is forwarded by e mail server to bookkeeper arrow while the original is forwarded to the e mail client of recipient arrow . The copy of the message sent to bookkeeper may or may not include the content or body or subject line of the e mail message e.g. it may be a header only . In one embodiment only the requisite information for Bookkeeper functions is sent to bookkeeper namely the number of currency units being exchanged and the source and destination of the currency units and optionally security information such as hash signature or other authentication token. Communications may take place over a secure data channel and or the message body or other e mail data may be encrypted to facilitate transfer for bookkeeper functions while protecting privacy. The transaction data is sent to repository by bookkeeper arrow where the account information for all parties is updated in the database and sent back to bookkeeper arrow . Bookkeeper routes a message to the e mail client of sender arrow and to the e mail client of recipient arrow . The account information for each party is updated within their respective clients . These additional messages may be displayed or they may be hidden from the users.

In one embodiment a desktop software application can exist to facilitate communication between clients and bookkeeper . The desktop application can be downloaded and installed separately from clients or it can be bundled with clients . Its core functionality is to serve as a bridge between any client application including such things as but not limited to e mail clients instant messaging clients voice over IP software collaboration software telephone and bookkeeper . For illustrative purposes the desktop application is described herein as it would interface with an existing messaging or publishing client such as Microsoft Outlook LotusNotes Netmail Thunderbird wiki website etc. and the like. It is also possible that the desktop application can communicate directly with other desktop applications running on another user s machine. In one embodiment the desktop application may send information about currency units associated with a particular message and it may also collect and forward information regarding messages sent without currency and other information about messaging behavior such as response time to reply. Any of the functionality of the desktop application can alternatively be provided by a server on a website with the desktop application providing access to the website server. Alternatively the desktop functionality can be provided by software on a PDA or other computing device. The desktop application can be set to automatically launch when a user opens his or her e mail client or associated clients.

1. The E mail client sends an e mail message to e mail server . An appropriate number of currency units are associated with the e mail message.

2. The E mail client notifies separate desktop application A running at sender s machine of the number of currency units Serios to be increased or decreased and to whom the currency is to be delivered. Desktop application A keeps a local copy of the total currency balance for the user.

3. Desktop application A sends an encrypted message to bookkeeper instructing bookkeeper to update repository accordingly.

4. Bookkeeper keeps the message in a queue waiting for a corresponding message to arrive from recipient s desktop application B.

5. When both messages have arrived bookkeeper updates repository for sender and recipient . This includes adding SENT and RECEIVED records updating the number of currency units for sender and recipient and deleting the pending transaction. In an alternative embodiment only one of the two messages is needed before an update proceeds.

6. Bookkeeper retrieves the new total number of currency units for each user from repository and sends an encrypted message via an e mail protocol or other message type to the recipients desktop application B. Bookkeeper may communicate via messages with each of the desktop applications A B as needed to maintain accuracy and or synchronization. When selected by the user users may see an optional pop up box that notifies them of a change in their account balance.

7. When the next e mail is created by sender client checks desktop application A to make sure there are enough currency units available to perform the selected transfer.

This embodiment can be built such that other users may utilize application programming interface APIs and software development kits SDKs to develop additional software modifications on top of desktop applications A B to enhance the user experience skill set or performance. As a primary feature of the invention a platform of tools and code will give other users the building blocks on which to program their own add ons analysis tools and integration pieces to enable currency exchange on applications. These modifications could include simple alterations such as a way to change the client s user interface via a skin or something more complex such as integration of attention economy currency with an external auction market like eBay.

In one embodiment e mail server is implemented using a common e mail server product such as Microsoft Exchange or Lotus Domino. It has the capability to deal with different e mail protocols such as POP and IMAP for example. E mail server may reside within the organization s firewall or be located externally but still be able to communicate effectively for performing requisite tasks. If server is located outside the organization s internal network special measures can be taken to protect the content of organization specific e mail to ensure compliance with security standards. In order to facilitate communication with or independent of email server products the invention provides for assignment of currency and its recognition via web based interfaces such as webmail.

In one embodiment desktop applications A B can also provide information regarding users currency accounts. Referring now to there is shown a screen shot illustrating an example of a display showing such information. This user interface includes account information for a particular individual including but not limited to currency exchange balances analysis of currency trades amount sent and received today over a partial or set period of time and lifetime and personal information as well as deeper analysis of a user s role or behavior based on currency usage such as pie charts .

Additional information and reports can also be provided. For example illustrates an example of a graphical representation of communication and behavior patterns based on currency according to one embodiment.

Desktop application can perform such functions as maintaining a local cache of the total currency account balance per user and providing communication with the e mail client to determine how many currency units are available for outgoing e mail messages. Information in the desktop application can be represented in a variety of textual graphical and interactive ways that ultimately reflect a user s account status or balance as well as serve as a communication hub between the user and other members using the invention.

Desktop application can be accessed for example via the Windows taskbar or system tray for Windows operating system users. Referring now to there is shown an example of minimized icon for the desktop application as may be displayed on a screen in the Microsoft Windows operating system. Referring also to there is shown an example of menu that appears when the user clicks on minimized icon . Menu provides access to various functions and commands associated with desktop application .

In one embodiment bookkeeper is implemented as a server for handling currency transactions. Accordingly bookkeeper updates repository in accordance with e mails it receives from users e mail clients . It extracts the relevant information from incoming e mail messages including who sent how many units to whom and at what time and the like. It records this information in repository . In one embodiment repository is implemented as a database containing transactions and balances. In one embodiment bookkeeper also updates and maintains a web accessible version of repository which allows users to access their balances transaction histories and view data on other users activities. From here a user can compare his or her own activities to others or he she can look up information about an individual a team or a project of interest. In this capacity bookkeeper or a separate application using data collected by bookkeeper performs certain analyses on the data it collects and makes the results of those analyses available to users. Some of these data analyses can include account balance summaries number of messages sent and received volume number of messages sent between specific individuals or groups balance of trade the number of messages without currency attached sent over a period of time the highest amount of units given to or received from a certain individual etc.

In one embodiment bookkeeper includes administration functions that allow the authentication registration modification and deletion of users. In one embodiment bookkeeper s responsibilities regarding the addition of a user consists of creating a new entry in the repository updating it to include currency given to new users if any and sending out an invitation e mail to that user. Deleting a user consists of a notification or confirmation e mail being sent as well as making the necessary changes to repository .

In one embodiment related to the registration and creation of user accounts it is possible for users to associate one or more messaging accounts with one or more currency accounts where each currency account can be used for different purposes with features toggled on or off and can be accessed via different media. For example a person could create an Account A that allows currency exchange via devices like instant messenger voice over IP and on a mobile phone while Account B is only enabled to exchange currency over email and webmail clients.

Bookkeeper may reside within an organization s firewall or be located externally but still be able to communicate effectively for performing requisite tasks. Bookkeeper may communicate directly with desktop applications A B to facilitate information transactions between the clients and bookkeeper or bookkeeper may communicate directly with clients .

In one embodiment repository is a database that contains records of all users and their transactions within the system. It includes user information such as name e mail and account number as well as information about each transaction that has occurred in the system. Bookkeeper has access to repository so that it can process user transactions. As above various embodiments provide for an interface that allows users to view information stored in repository . In one embodiment repository is accessed by a web interface that allows a user to view his or her currency balance transactions and statistical data aggregated by bookkeeper . Optionally a user interface is provided to enable a user to see his or her currency balance in relation to and relative standing with others such as across the entire enterprise within their department or with respect to any other corporate designation or organizational framework. For certain users e.g. administrators managers executives reporting information such as currency usage patterns e.g. currency usage by department team individual project etc. trends currency usage over time and the like are provided using database and statistical reporting tools. Repository may reside within the organization s firewall or be located externally but still be able to communicate effectively for performing requisite tasks.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the above description sets forth an exemplary embodiment of the present invention and that many variations and or additional features can be provided without departing from the essential characteristics of the invention. The following features and variations are intended to serve as examples for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the described invention. One skilled in the art will further recognize that any or all of the variations and features discussed herein and other variations and features may be implemented either alone or in any combination with one another.

Allowances of currency can be disbursed equally to all participants in defined intervals or the allowances can be proportional to specific criteria such as the participant s department job title rank seniority salary or earned via attendance invested time performance of tasks service support behavior and the like. For example only high level managers of a company might initially be given currency units which they can then use to reward subordinates. Alternatively it is possible for no regular allowances to exist but rather that all participants are given a set number of units upon initiation of the system and or upon joining the organization and can earn additional units through transactions with others. For example this could be a currency unit in the closed economy for an enterprise a community of people or school.

In one embodiment of the invention the mechanisms and methods used to support exchange of coworkers within an enterprise are adapted and utilized for the exchange of currency between users in different enterprises institutions government agencies social or political groups or other communities of interest. In these embodiments multiple Bookkeepers may be used to distribute the functionality of maintaining user balances distributing and redeeming the currency units. Likewise one or more Central Banks may be used to coordinates the activities of bookkeepers as well as for account management and clearinghouse functions for settling large number of currency exchanges between enterprises for example along the lines of the operations of the Automated Clearing House ACH operated by the Federal Reserve or similar clearinghouse mechanisms e.g. SWIFT .

In one embodiment users use one common currency for all exchanges within the organization. In another embodiment multiple measures and or currencies exist such as a single currency and additional rating systems. These additional rating systems can be based on a numerical scale give people ranks or titles allow peer awarding of non exchangeable tokens or be a separate currency. Each measurement can be used to assign value to different resources and performance. For example it is possible to use one currency to purchase attention equipment time and vacation time while a different rating system is used to rate others on performance information value and to serve as an indicator of feedback. In another embodiment a separate currency may exist for usage by a particular group of people or for a particular focus. However this currency may also be traded for attention resources either directly or by exchanging it into Serios. For example a currency may be created specifically for users of amazon.com a large online shopping portal. This currency can be earned each time a user accesses or purchases from the site. It may also be used implicitly to purchase attention because they themselves carry value or they may be traded for Serios via an established exchange rate.

The system of the present invention can lead to various currency sources pools and drains that can be manipulated to affect the economy in various ways such as to curb inflation or promote growth. These can be designed to drive performance and behavior desired by the organization. Sources are the means by which currency units are injected into circulation and may include a regular allowance or payment for successful completion of a task project or activity. Pools describe currency in circulation including savings investments loans inventories rented goods and the like. Drains are the various means by which currency exits from circulation and may occur via transactions to obtain benefits provided by the organization. For example an employee may spend currency units to purchase lunch with the CEO or bid in an auction for a digital music player and the currency thus exchanged is removed from circulation. Taxes levied on exchanges of currency or on balances held can also serve as a drain.

In one embodiment a Central Bank serves as a repository of currency that is removed from circulation. The Central Bank can serve many typical banking functions to stabilize the economy such as injecting currency into or retracting currency from the currency supply. The existence of a Central Bank may also facilitate additional features such as reference interest rates for borrowing.

In one embodiment increased control is given to the operators of the system so they can guide the direction of the economy. They may offer incentives for certain behavior and create blocks or limits or extra cost for behavior they deem undesirable. In an alternate free market embodiment a great amount of freedom is given to each individual with respect to where he or she can spend currency and what prices he or she will pay. In this system the interaction between self interested buyers and sellers is relied upon to regulate interactions in a way that may be favorable to the organization as a whole.

In one embodiment additional fees maintenance costs or taxes may be imposed to encourage or discourage various behaviors. For example taxes on wealth may be used to discourage hoarding of currency. Taxes or fees may be charged for sending too many low cost emails in an attempt to discourage e mail volume.

In one embodiment e mail recipients keep the currency units that are attached to messages they receive. This enables the recipients to accumulate a balance of currency units and spend it as they see fit. In an alternative embodiment recipient does not get credited with those units to his or her account but rather the units are subtracted from sender and stored in bookkeeper the Central Bank or some other repository. Recipient may nevertheless choose to return all some or even more of those units back to sender from the repository. This design choice allows individuals to send feedback in the currency without attaching a personal cost.

The described invention provides unprecedented liquidity and transparency to interpersonal transactions. One beneficial effect of creating an explicit economy for the resources within an organization is that it generates discussion among users regarding values and priorities. When the economy is initiated individuals will try to determine how to act within the new framework. This is a positive effect since it amounts to a collective assessment and calibration of the organization s assets. In one alternate embodiment a mechanism is provided by which one or more properties of the system are changed or rotated on a periodic basis to recreate the effects which are typical to the new introduction of the system.

In one embodiment client is adapted to allow users to set filters for specific criteria for handling messages. For example client enables users to automatically filter out any message e mail instant message or voice call where the number of attached currency units is less than an arbitrary number of currency units. Additionally client can be configured to route and store messages into folders based on their attached currency value e.g. to route some messages to a High Value folder for immediate review as well as to forward as to a mobile device or PDA or assistant delete or otherwise perform any e mail based action conditioned upon currency value.

In one embodiment currency expenditure can be applied to many resources within an organization. Units of currency can be earned from others or from bookkeeper or Central Bank by performing desired work tasks and activities. Currency can be spent to purchase or use resources such as the attention or time of other individuals equipment data services and space. For example currency may be offered for attendance at meetings if an individual attends a helpful training class or if a person passes a qualification test. Earning and spending currency may not be limited to circulation within a single organization but may tie to outside organizations such as vendors customers channel partners and relate to goods services information and content.

In one embodiment of the invention users may be rewarded for currency usage via system attribution purchase tokens of recognition for others and purchase tokens for display purposes. These rewards or badges are visible persistent indicators of achievement and prestige among the community of users. The badges may be automatically awarded or assigned at certain time intervals or by the system after a user achieves some sort of usage milestone. For example someone who has both sent and received 100 000 Serios over their lifetime may earn the Grandmaster Badge. In addition badges may be purchased by individuals to give to other individuals as a reward or feedback indicator. In this case the giver of the badge is also of importance. For example if the CEO of the company purchases a Project Leader Badge for a junior associate it contains a great deal of information to anyone who views it. Finally certain badges may be for display only and can be earned or purchased to convey information only. For example an individual may choose to purchase a Golden Retriever Badge to display on a personal profile for visual purposes to express to others that they like dogs or just for fun.

Users can take advantage of the flexibility of this system to reward currency units to others for desired behavior. In particular users can define currency reward functions to attach to their messages. These functions provide a varying amount of currency to one or more recipients based on variously defined response or action criteria. For example users can create incentives to managers peers or subordinates for responding to time sensitive requests by offering a specified currency reward function such that if recipient reply within in two hours they receive X units of currency but if they reply within one hour they receive 2X units. Similarly a sender may choose to reward only the first responder the best problem solver or someone with the most useful information with bonus amount of currency. The Bookkeeper administrator can keep track of these currency reward functions and any other private treaty exchanges. Client in this embodiment is adapted to provide a user interface by which the user can define the currency reward function e.g. using menus and fields or via a programmatic interface.

In one embodiment the present invention is used for purchasing attention in connection with web based content. Users can create personalized revenue driven web pages blogs or other content stations that peers and colleagues may access. Individuals may host or provide personally created content and charge a currency fee for access to said content if they desire. In addition individuals may post tasks or projects and allow other users to bid on opportunities with currency. In this way individuals may buy and sell goods services and information to earn revenue.

In one embodiment the transactions and balances of all users are made publicly viewable. This data can be used to measure progress and performance and reflect reputation. Similarly it can be possible to make only certain transaction and balance information transparent. In another embodiment any or all of such information is hidden from users.

In another aspect of the invention the artificial currency is used as a mechanism to enhance workflow management systems. Typically workflow management systems are used to assign tasks to individuals and groups and monitor and report on the execution and status of such tasks. Tasks are typically associated with priority values by the system or other users e.g. managers . An embodiment of the present invention enhances a workflow management system by configuring and adapting the workflow management system to include with a task a number of currency units by which the task is valued for execution. This enables the first user to decide the levels of incentive appropriate for task completion by another user. Thus tasks that are considered important by a manager can be assigned with a significant number of currency units. The currency units can be assigned for different levels of task completion e.g. N currency units for completion of some M percentage or steps of a task or project . The Bookkeeper exports an interface by which the workflow management system can notify it of task completion or status so as the enable bookkeeper to update users accounts based on task status and performance.

The provision of currency integration with workflow management can be further extended to interoperation with system or machine based tasks. Thus in one embodiment the artificial currency can be attached to tasks assigned by a user to a machine or system. For example a system operator can attach some number of currency units to a task to be executed by a computer system e.g. a database operation a code compilation task a manufacturing task by a manufacturing system e.g. a milling operation a chemical conversion process or a robotic operation or the like. Here the receptive system is configured and adapted to schedule and prioritize a task execution queue based at least in part on the number of currency units associated with each of its tasks. Furthermore the artificial currency can be attached to tasks assigned by one machine or system to a user or assigned by one machine or system to another machine or system . These various approaches provide a unified environment in which users and machines utilize a common currency to determine the significance and importance of tasks and provide feedback for either human or machine learning for optimization. In these approaches the various currency enabled machines and systems have access to one or more bookkeepers by which they can report the amounts of currency received for tasks or required for assignment of tasks.

In one embodiment certain transactions may be allowed in which sender remains anonymous to recipient and or the community. This feature may be enabled to permit feedback which would be uncoupled or protected from explicit or implicit quid pro quo arrangements or abuse of a supervisor s authority to extract currency from subordinates. In another embodiment anonymity may be purchased at some cost to sender for a specific transaction.

A correlate of anonymity is non intrusion by which a recipient does not need to use any attention in order to receive some number of units of artificial currency from another. In other words a sender may give or grant another user a number of units of currency without recipient being notified in a manner that consumes that recipient s attention. Instead the granted currency units can be automatically added to the recipient s balance. One implementation of this feature is provided by the use of special bookkeeping messages to bookkeeper . These bookkeeping messages are sent directly to bookkeeper or a delegate and identify a transaction type e.g. deposit an amount e.g. 100 Serios a source account e.g. sender and a target account e.g. recipient . Additional flags or parameters can be established for the message such as whether or not to notify recipient of the transaction whether the transaction is anonymous e.g. not disclosing sender or delaying the transaction to a specified date or event. An implementation of the bookkeeping messages can be provided by a user interface including buttons and menus for defining the transaction characteristic and parameters described above. Alternatively the transaction can be defined using a command or message language e.g. name value pairs .

In one embodiment access to documents in the organization costs the user a document access fee in units of the currency. In one embodiment the amount of this fee is small enough not to be a barrier to access. In another embodiment pricing is established via a continuous auction for information access. The original author s of the document receives all or a portion of that fee. Thus the incentive is to write valuable documents that are accessed by many individuals. Conversely users are able to quickly and easily see and rank documents in order of the times they have been accessed which can help them quickly determine the most valuable documents for particular needs. In this embodiment bookkeeper cooperates with a document management system that stores and retrieves the documents. The document management system includes document profiles for each document which can include a field that can store a currency amount the field can be left empty of the document is considered to be free . The Bookkeeper provides an interface by which the document management system can notify it of document accesses so as to update the account balance of an accessing user for payment of the document access fee.

It is possible to design the system to drive specific behaviors or to allow users to define their own behavior. For example in one embodiment it is conceivable that participants can click a Complaint button to report someone who is disagreeable and difficult to work with. Because this feature is programmed into the functionality of the system it polices disruptive behavior. In an alternative embodiment that exemplifies emergent behavior no Complaint button exists but the participants may socially mark that individual as troublesome and give him or her low feedback or refuse to exchange currency units with them.

In one embodiment the raw data from worker to worker currency exchanges can be displayed as a dynamic multi dimensional multi directional graph of collaborative activity. The graph can display each worker as a node in a network with the proximity of nodes and strength of ties between nodes determined by the frequency and amount of units exchanged. The raw data for network determination will be the worker by worker account matrix where cell entries represent exchanges for all possible pairs of workers. Clusters of collaborative groups based on empirical data related to actual communicative activity rather than formally assigned groups can be represented graphically with use of color coding and visual clustering techniques. The graph can change over time in increments and will constitute a dynamic representation of collaborative activity based on perceived value of information exchanges. The network activity graphs can be produced for selected groups within the larger economy or for special subgroups determined by game masters or the workers themselves. Collaborative clusters and their structural changes over time are readily apparent and can be used to reinforce or redirect organizational assets. In addition the information from graphical representation of collaboration can be used to design and engineer entertaining activities games scenarios and or narratives to drive specific behavior or performance patterns.

In addition to enterprises such as business corporations the present invention could provide benefits for collaboration among participants in government and non profit organizations educational institutions informal clubs and associations families and military or civilian command and control structures. The present invention will benefit circumstances where there is time urgency for attention to messages changes in priorities feedback delivery and team coordination. In one embodiment a single common currency is managed to provide stable and predictable unit of exchange to users across a variety of enterprises organizations and groups. In an alternative embodiment multiple currencies are managed and a mechanism for currency exchange is provided.

In one embodiment the present invention further includes tools mechanisms and incentives that allow people to work together cooperatively and receive team rewards. Users may pool resources to achieve certain goals or share in and mete out the rewards. Group activities may involve a variant set of tools and recordings to support multiple users. In one embodiment individual interests in the currency may be aggregated to form corporations with defined ownership interests and the right to earn and pay currency. In this embodiment bookkeeper is adapted to enable user to set up pooled accounts currency distribution and resource pricing functions.

In one embodiment the system of the present invention provides feedback to users on multiple time scale loops to reinforce desired behavior and discourage undesired behavior. These time scales can range from very fast immediate feedback recurring every few seconds to extremely long feedback cycles that take months or even years. Feedback serves to reinforce and drive desired behavior and can deliver to participants assets that enrich or empower their user experience.

In one embodiment credit cards money orders stored value cards checks and or other money management tools are issued in units of the artificial currency in order to facilitate exchange of currency units by participants.

Users can exchange currency units by means of electronic devices other than a computer or through a local area network. In one extension a portable version of bookkeeper software allows real time wireless transactions between individuals who are using handheld devices cell phones audio devices and other portable electronics. Communication may be based on peer to peer architecture rather than through a central server. Encryption can be used in the transfer and store of currency.

In some embodiments users are permitted to borrow units of currency from each other via private transactions or from bookkeeper or Central Bank. Provision for interest and enforcement of default are enabled in the Central Bank.

In one embodiment currency may also be used by individuals in an internal futures market where individuals may trade currency for shares of stock representing future performance of organization products services or resources. The currency may also be exchanged directly with official established currency such as the United States dollar or the Chinese ren min bi. A mechanism for exchanging such currency may be built into the administrative functions of bookkeeper or exist in an adjacent or compatible way with the Bookkeeping system.

In one embodiment the currency stream can form the backbone for an internal social networking website or application. The website or application can have such features as but not limited to the ability to create a personal profile link to friends view other users profiles leave messages form groups schedule events view a network visualization of who you are linked to post pictures search for users create blogs instant message contact one another or find individuals inside or outside the organization with certain skill sets experiences backgrounds interests etc. Communication and incentive structures are based largely upon currency usage. For example a user may be able to earn access to certain groups based on a positive currency trade balance.

In one embodiment external social networking websites and applications may integrate currency data into existing features or use attention currency to drive behavior or accomplish certain goals. More advanced attention economy exchange capabilities and analysis can be enabled by integrating the currency into the regular tools and activities available on these external websites and applications.

Data about individual transactions in the economy may be used to determine personalities of the users. This information may be reported to the users as feedback about their exchanges and their role in a network and if agreed to by the participants it may be reported to third parties e.g. management organizational researchers human resources as information that identifies how the individual contributes to the organization. The data may be reported numerically scores on personality dimensions categorically naming which of several personality descriptors apply or pictorially including facial expressions that depict different personalities or other icons and objects that represent different personality categories.

Personality is defined according to the social psychological literature about dimensions or factors that constitute the basic traits of social interaction. One collection of traits is known in social psychology as the Big 5 and includes extraversion agreeableness conscientiousness neuroticism and openness. Accordingly in one embodiment bookkeeper is adapted to tabulate and monitor currency exchanges in relation to the definition of each personality category. For example extraversion is characterized by a willingness to initiate an interaction. Introversion the opposite value on this dimension is characterized by a greater frequency of responses to interactions initiated by others. In this embodiment bookkeeper tabulates a ratio of the number of times currency exchanges are initiated by the user in relation to exchanges where users are responders to others. The data from this calculation determines the value for the extraversion factor and it may be displayed in numerical or visual forms to users and third parties. A second example is agreeableness. One attribute of this dimension is the amount of negative feedback that an individual gives during an interaction. In this embodiment an agreeableness factor is be determined by tabulating the number of times users return less currency than they receive in a message thread.

In one embodiment the present invention provides elaborated game play including for example the ability to trade currency for game assets in a virtual world. Workers can select avatars that represent themselves in the economy e.g. choice of characters clothing appearance and customized accessories and can then access avatars of other workers e.g. opportunities for virtual meetings with other avatars virtual social events and exploration of virtual spaces where specialized activities occur and objects that facilitate communication with other team members e.g. the opportunity to store shared documents and exchange files within the narrative of the virtual world . Benefits of the virtual world and assets accumulated within the world include the ability to increase the level of playful immersive interaction to provide feedback and assets that reinforce behavior and empower participants to improve performance and to offer opportunities for workers to acquire game artifacts that facilitate and increase their ability to acquire currency in the e mail attention economy the preferred embodiment .

A companion virtual world can serve as the location for expanded individual game play and collaborative activity via avatars and visual two and three dimensional interfaces. The virtual worlds may be customized fantasy narratives e.g. space travel medieval feudal fighting sports competition or real world narratives from the actual places where the e mail attention economy is functioning e.g. market competition between companies teams competing within organizations to solve problems . All narratives regardless of the specific back stories for the interactions can share the same underlying features and affordances and will be mapped to a common set of game components including such ideas as feedback assets collaboration markets and avatars.

Within the virtual world game masters may announce quests where participants are offered currency rewards as well as level and experience recognition for solving posted problems. The quests can be in game fantasy adventures e.g. using the collective expertise of several workers to find or build objects in the virtual world or they can be real enterprise problems that are solved within a compelling virtual space that offers opportunities for conferencing using personal avatars sharing assets communicating and rewarding workers in relation to their contributions on the quests.

In some embodiments other features of the virtual world include an auction where workers can post and bid on digital objects in the world compelling visual displays of game currency including accumulations over time and comparisons to other workers and a futures market where workers may invest currency gained in the e mail game in ideas proposed and posted by other workers or the game master.

The present invention provides many advantages that improve efficiency and assist in navigating large amounts of incoming communication and information. The following are some examples of specific advantages provided by the invention.

By attributing a cost to certain actions and resources relative scarcity is enforced. Consequently individuals are forced to limit consumption and budget personal assets to acquire the things that really matter to them. Some of the expected results include a decrease in the volume of unimportant messages an increase in valuable communication and feedback the ability to identify priority items and better collaboration due to a deeper understanding of team members priorites.

Marking communication with currency that is itself a valuable and scarce resource signifies to recipient that sender has vested interest in the message s delivery and reception. In addition the currency supports an immediate feedback system because recipients may respond to senders with attached currency.

Bookkeeper records currency transactions within the organization. The statistical analysis on transaction data can include detailed information on volume and trade balance thus allowing users administrators and other individuals to clearly see how and where they focus energy and attention. When this data is transparent to all users within an organization it allows users to view and subsequently regulate their own behavior in comparison to others. When currency is being spent on organization resources such as time tools space and data it is possible to identify areas of high and low value because individual designations are aggregated to determine the price of goods and services. The present invention thus encourages individual preferences to establish a collective consensus via bookkeeper s analysis. With the attention economy users may quickly and easily set macro and micro views of resource allocation within an organization and make meaningful conclusions that can help improve productivity and efficiency.

