---

title: Connector for securing an offset spinal fixation element
abstract: The present invention provides an implant that can be inserted on top of a previously placed spinal fixation element. The implant includes a bone anchor and a connector body. The bone anchor includes a proximal head and a distal shaft extending along a longitudinal axis configured to engage bone. The connector body is configured to engage the proximal head of bone anchor and engage a spinal fixation element offset from longitudinal axis of the bone anchor shaft. Because, the implant is inserted over the spinal fixation element, direct visualization of the surgical site is available during insertion. In addition, the implant may provide tactile or audible feedback indicating that the spinal fixation element has been engaged by the implant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08888819&OS=08888819&RS=08888819
owner: Depuy Synthes Products, LLC
number: 08888819
owner_city: Raynham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
The present invention relates to connector devices and methods for use during orthopedic surgery. More particularly the present invention relates to implants for securing previously inserted spinal fixation elements using bone anchors placed adjacent to the spinal fixation elements SFE .

For a number of known reasons spinal fixation devices are used in orthopedic surgery to align and or fix a desired relationship between adjacent vertebral bodies. Such devices typically include a spinal fixation element such as a relatively rigid fixation rod that is coupled to adjacent vertebrae by attaching the element to various anchoring devices such as hooks bolts wires or screws. The fixation elements can have a predetermined contour that has been designed according to the properties of the target implantation site and once installed the instrument holds the vertebrae in a desired spatial relationship either until desired healing or spinal fusion has taken place or for some longer period of time.

Spinal fixation elements can be anchored to specific portions of the vertebrae. Since each vertebra varies in shape and size a variety of anchoring devices have been developed to facilitate engagement of a particular portion of the bone. Pedicle screw assemblies for example have a shape and size that is configured to engage pedicle bone. Such screws typically include a threaded shank that is adapted to be threaded into a vertebra and a head portion having a rod receiving element usually in the form of a U shaped slot formed in the head. A set screw plug or similar type of fastening mechanism is used to lock the fixation element e.g. a rod into the rod receiving head of the pedicle screw. In use the shank portion of each screw is threaded into a vertebra and once properly positioned a rod is seated through the rod receiving member of each screw and the rod is locked in place by tightening a cap or other fastener mechanism to securely interconnect each screw and the fixation rod.

Recently the trend in spinal surgery has been moving toward providing minimally invasive elements and methods for implanting spinal fixation devices. For example one such method a rod first method includes inserting a spinal rod through a first incision and positioning the spinal rod along a patient s spinal column adjacent to one or more vertebra. After the spinal rod is inserted a first bone anchor is inserted through the first bone anchor incision or through a separate incision and then additional bone anchors are inserted each through a separate incision along the spinal rod. After a bone anchor is inserted and anchored in bone it is coupled to the spinal rod. A rod first method is a minimally invasive technique in which the bone anchors are inserted after the rod and adjacent to the rod as opposed to a conventional surgical technique in which the bone anchors are inserted first then the rod is placed in rod receiving elements lying over the heads of the bone anchors.

However such minimally invasive procedures such as rod first techniques introduce other issues. Because the bone anchors are inserted percutaneously after the spinal fixation element and adjacent to the spinal fixation element connecting the bone anchors to the spinal fixation element can be difficult because the surrounding tissue and muscle may obstruct a direct view of the surgical site. Thus what is needed when using minimally invasive surgical procedures such as rod first techniques is a means for being able to engage a previously inserted spinal fixation element with an implant at a sub facial surgical site.

Embodiments of the present invention provide an implant that can be inserted on top of a previously placed spinal fixation element. Because the implant is inserted over the spinal fixation element direct visualization of the surgical site is available during insertion. In addition the implant may provide tactile or audible feedback indicating that the spinal fixation element has been engaged by the implant.

In accordance with a first aspect an implant is provided for use in a minimally invasive rod first spinal fixation. The implant includes a bone anchor and a connector body. The bone anchor includes a proximal head and a distal shaft extending along a longitudinal axis configured to engage bone. The connector body is configured to engage the proximal head of bone anchor and engage a spinal fixation element offset from longitudinal axis of the bone anchor shaft.

In one embodiment the connector body may include a cavity for receiving the proximal head of the bone anchor and a hook for receiving the spinal fixation element. The hook may be deformable or include spring loaded fingers for engaging the spinal fixation element.

In another embodiment the connector body may include a lower clamp mechanism and an upper clamp mechanism configured to mate with the lower clamp mechanism to engage the spinal fixation device.

In another embodiment the connector body is configured to engage the spinal fixation element which is configured to secure the proximal head of the bone anchor. The connector body includes first and second halves. The first half is configured to engage the proximal head of the bone anchor and seat the spinal fixation element. The second half is configured to mate with the first half to capture the spinal fixation element. Capturing the spinal fixation element secures the connector body on the bone anchor.

In another embodiment an engagement tool is provided for engaging the spinal fixation device with connector body. The engagement tool includes an outer sleeve and an inner plunger. The outer sleeve has a proximal end a distal end configured to engage the spinal fixation element and a lumen extending between the proximal and distal ends. The inner plunger is configured to fit inside the outer sleeve and engage the connector body. In operation when the inner plunger is inserted into the outer sleeve to engage the connector body the plunger causes the connector body to engage the spinal fixation element engaged by the outer sleeve.

In accordance with another aspect a method is provided for securing a previously inserted spinal fixation element. The method uses the implant described above. First the implant is inserted at the surgical site. Once inserted the spinal fixation element may be engaged by the connector body of the implant.

Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall understanding of the principles of the structure function manufacture and use of the devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those skilled in the art will understand that the devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the accompanying drawings are non limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the present invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

Exemplary embodiments described herein concern implants for securing spinal fixation elements and methods of use. As such exemplary embodiments of implants are formed of suitable materials for use in a human body. Suitable materials include but are not limited to stainless steel titanium or the like. Exemplary embodiments of implants are particularly suited for use in rod first spinal surgical techniques. An exemplary embodiment of an implant secures the previously inserted spinal fixation element. Exemplary embodiments of implants are sized and dimensioned for insertion through a minimally invasive surgical access port such as a cannula. Additionally exemplary embodiments of implants are configured for use in a rod first surgical technique in which an SFE is inserted and positioned in a patient before insertion of the implant and in which the bone anchors are positioned adjacent to an SFE and not beneath the SFE.

The bone anchor comprises a joint portion illustrated as a proximal anchor head for coupling the bone anchor to the connector body and an anchoring portion illustrated as a distal shaft configured to engage bone. The distal shaft of the bone anchor extends along a longitudinal axis . The distal shaft may include one or more bone engagement mechanisms to facilitate gripping engagement of the bone anchor to bone. In the illustrated embodiment the distal shaft includes an external thread extending along at least a portion of the shaft for engaging bone. In the illustrated embodiment the external thread is a single lead thread that extends from a distal tip of the shaft to the anchor head though one skilled in the art will recognize that the external thread may extend along any selected portion of the shaft and have any suitable number of leads. Other suitable bone engagement mechanisms include but are not limited to one or more annular ridges multiple threads dual lead threads variable pitched threads and or any conventional bone engagement mechanism.

The anchor head of the bone anchor may be configured to facilitate adjustment of the bone anchor relative to the connector body of the implant . For example the illustrative anchor head may be substantially spherical to permit pivoting of the bone anchor relative to the connector body in one or more selected directions. In some embodiments the anchor head may also have surface texturing knurling and or ridges.

In this example the connector body includes a cavity and a hook . The cavity passes through the connector body and is configured for receiving the bone anchor and engaging the proximal head of the bone anchor . The hook defines a slot for engaging a spinal fixation element such as a rod not shown that is offset from the longitudinal axis of the distal shaft of the bone anchor .

The connector body receives the proximal head of the bone anchor in the cavity to couple the bone anchor thereto. The connector body receives a spinal fixation element in the slot defined by the hook thereby coupling the spinal fixation element engaged by the connector body to the bone anchor .

The cavity of the connector body is configured to interact with the spherical shape of the proximal head of the bone anchor to allow the bone anchor to rotate and pivot independently of the connector body . Likewise once the distal shaft of the bone anchor has been implanted in a bone not shown the interaction of the cavity and proximal head allow the connector body to be positioned to engage a spinal fixation element not shown .

Once the connector body has been appropriately positioned a locking member may be used to secure or otherwise fix the position of the connector body. In the embodiment of the locking member is a set screw. The set screw has external threads configured to engage internal threads in the cavity of the connector body . The set screw is inserted into the cavity and engages the proximal head of the bone anchor to secure the positions of the bone anchor and connector body in relation to each other.

In certain embodiments the locking mechanism may also function to secure or other wise fix a spinal fixation element engaged by the connector body . In some such embodiments the locking mechanism may work in conjunction with a securing mechanism to secure the connector body and spinal fixation element. In other embodiments a second locking mechanism may be provided to secure or otherwise fix the spinal fixation device engaged by the connector body.

In the embodiment of the implant has a bone anchor and a connector body configured to engage the bone anchor and spinal fixation element . In the example depicted in the bone anchor and connector body are already assembled such that the proximal head of the bone anchor is engaged by the cavity of the connector body leaving only the distal shaft of the bone anchor visible. The implant also includes a first locking mechanism and a second locking mechanism .

In this embodiment the connector body includes cavity for receiving the bone anchor and first locking mechanism as well a hook defining a slot for receiving the spinal fixation element that is offset from the longitudinal axis of the distal shaft of the bone anchor .

In this embodiment the implant is configured to be top loaded so as to engage the spinal fixation element from above. The bone anchor is implanted adjacent to the spinal fixation element so that the spinal fixation element is offset from the longitudinal axis of the distal shaft of the bone anchor . The connector body is able to move polyaxially with respect to the bone anchor to engage the spinal fixation element .

The hook of connector body may also include leaf spring features and surface configurations . The leaf spring features allow the hook to deform or flex outward around the spinal fixation element and then snap onto the spinal fixation element thereby engaging the spinal fixation element in slot . The surface configurations include a lip on the hook that push the hook outward while the spinal fixation element is inserted into the slot and contains the spinal fixation element after insertion. This snap on feature also provides the benefit of giving the user tactile and audible feedback that the spinal fixation element has been engaged. It should be apparent that this snap on connection is but one possible method of engaging the spinal fixation element. Other possible implementations and embodiments will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

Once the spinal fixation element has been engaged by the connector body the polyaxial motion of the connector body is fixed using the first locking mechanism . In this example the first locking mechanism is a set screw configured to engage the bone anchor and connector body to lock their positions relative to each other. The set screw inserted into the cavity of the connector body can be seen in .

The embodiment of further includes a second locking mechanism . In this example the second locking mechanism is an outer ring. The outer ring includes a tapered inner thread configured to engage an outer thread on the connector body . When the outer ring is placed on the connector body the tapered thread constricts the hook locking the spinal fixation element inside the slot . The outer ring installed on the connector body can be seen in . It should be understood that the outer ring is but one possible implementation of a mechanism for securing the spinal fixation element . Other possible implementations and embodiments will be apparent to one skilled in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

Another embodiment of an implant can be seen in . In this embodiment the implant has a bone anchor and a connector body configured to engage the bone anchor and spinal fixation element . As with the bone anchor and connector body are already assembled such that the proximal head of the bone anchor is engaged by the cavity of the connector body . In this embodiment the implant further includes a first locking mechanism and a securing mechanism . Allowing the implant to be introduced fully assembled reduces the steps for the surgeon in the procedure. This is especially advantageous in minimally invasive procedures where secondary locking mechanism introductions are more difficult.

In this embodiment the connector body includes a cavity for receiving the bone anchor locking mechanism and securing mechanism as well as a hook defining a slot for receiving the spinal fixation element that is offset from the longitudinal axis of the distal shaft of the bone anchor . In this embodiment the cavity is configured to receive the locking mechanism adjacent to rather than on top of the proximal head of the bone anchor and on top of the securing mechanism .

The implant is configured to be top loaded completely assembled so as to engage the spinal fixation element from above. The bone anchor is implanted adjacent to the spinal fixation element so that the spinal fixation element is offset from the longitudinal axis of the distal shaft of the bone anchor . The connector body is able move polyaxially with respect to the bone anchor to engage the spinal fixation element .

The hook of connector body may also include spring loaded fingers with surface configurations . The spring loaded fingers deform or flex outward around the spinal fixation element and then snap onto the spinal fixation element thereby engaging the spinal fixation element in slot . The surface configurations include a lip on the fingers that push the fingers outward while the spinal fixation element is inserted into the slot and contains the spinal fixation element after insertion. This snap on feature also provides the benefit of giving the user tactile and audible feedback that the spinal fixation element has been engaged.

Once the spinal fixation element has been engaged by the connector body the locking mechanism in this case a set screw may be advanced. In this embodiment the set screw works in conjunction with a securing mechanism to secure both the polyaxial motion of the connector body and the spinal fixation element . In this example the securing mechanism is a wedge contoured to mate with both the proximal head of the bone anchor and the spinal fixation element . As the set screw is advanced the wedge is advanced which in turn pushes the proximal head against one side of the connector body and the spinal fixation element against the other side of the connector body securing the position of the connector body and the spinal fixation element .

Another embodiment of an implant can be seen in . As with the previous embodiments in this embodiment the implant has a bone anchor and a connector body configured to engage the bone anchor and spinal fixation element . In this embodiment the implant further includes a first locking mechanism and an integrated securing mechanism .

In this embodiment the connector body includes a cavity for receiving the bone anchor and locking mechanism as well a hook defining a slot for receiving the spinal fixation element that is offset from the longitudinal axis of the distal shaft of the bone anchor . In this embodiment the securing mechanism is integrated into the connector body .

The implant is configured to be top loaded completely assembled with the locking mechanism preloaded or inserted separately. In this embodiment the locking mechanism has a pass through feature allowing the bone anchor to be implanted while the locking mechanism is inserted in the connector body . The bone anchor is implanted adjacent to the spinal fixation element so that the spinal fixation element is offset from the longitudinal axis of the distal shaft of the bone anchor . The connector body is able to move polyaxially with respect to the bone anchor to engage the spinal fixation element .

The hook of connector body may also include one or more snap on features . The hook is capable of deforming or flexing outward around the spinal fixation element and then snap onto the spinal fixation element with the snap on features thereby engaging the spinal fixation element in slot . The snap on features also provides the benefit of giving the user tactile and audible feedback that the spinal fixation element has been engaged.

Once the spinal fixation element has been engaged by the connector body the locking mechanism in this case a set screw may be advanced. In this embodiment the set screw works in conjunction with a securing mechanism to fix secure both the polyaxial motion of the connector body and the spinal fixation element . The securing mechanism is configured to engage both the proximal head and the spinal fixation element . As the set screw is advanced the set screw pushes the proximal head against the securing mechanism locking the polyaxial motion of the connector body . The proximal head pushes the securing mechanism against the spinal fixation element . The securing mechanism pushes the spinal fixation element against the hook securing the position of the spinal fixation element .

In the embodiment of the set screw further includes a pass through feature . The pass through feature allows an insertion tool to access the bone anchor drive feature of the bone anchor with the set screw in place. This allows the height of the bone anchor to be adjusted after the bone anchor has been implanted and the SFE has been captured.

In the implant has been implanted at a surgical site. In this example an extension shaft extends from the locking mechanism . The extension shaft may be used to place the implant and or drive the locking mechanism . In certain embodiments the extension shaft may include a break away feature for removal after the connector body and spinal fixation element have been secured.

In the sleeve of the instrument has been inserted over the extension shaft . The sleeve has a proximal end a distal end and a lumen extending between the proximal and distal ends. The distal end is configured to engage the spinal fixation element . A close up of the distal end can be seen in .

In the distal end can be seen in position on the spinal fixation element . In this example the distal end includes a cut out and a lower ledge . The cut out allows the distal end of the sleeve to be positioned on the spinal fixation element . The lower ledge of the distal end is configured to engage the spinal fixation element .

In the plunger is inserted into the outer sleeve . The plunger is configured to fit inside the sleeve and engage the connector body of the implant . The plunger includes a proximal end and a distal end . In this embodiment the plunger engages the connector body through the extension shaft . In other embodiment the extension shaft may be removed prior to inserting the plunger wherein the plunger directly engages the connector body . In still other embodiments the plunger may have a lumen not shown between the proximal and distal ends allowing the plunger to pass over the extension shaft to directly engage the connector body . In certain embodiments the sleeve and plunger may include and alignment feature or otherwise be keyed to ensure proper alignment of the plunger and sleeve .

By pressing down on the plunger while maintaining the position of the sleeve the spinal fixation element is engaged by the connector body . In effect the lower ledge of the distal end of the sleeve applies an upward force on the spinal fixation element while the plunger applies a downward force on the connector body through the extension shaft . An example of the spinal fixation element engaged by the connector body inserted by the instrument can be seen in .

Another embodiment of an instrument is shown in . In this embodiment the sleeve is a half sleeve and the plunger is an insertion tool . This embodiment of the instrument is configured to be used in conjunction with a cannula as shown in .

The half sleeve has a proximal end a distal end and a lumen extending between the proximal and distal ends. The distal end is configured to engage the spinal fixation element . In this embodiment the proximal end further includes a handle that can be used to manipulate or secure the position of the half sleeve . The open nature of the half sleeve allows it to work in conjunction with any number devices for placing a spinal fixation device into the connector body .

In the embodiment of an insertion tool is used as a plunger in conjunction with the half sleeve . The insertion tool has a handle at a proximate end and a distal end for engaging the connector body . The insertion tool may be the tool used to place the implant drive the bone anchor or insert the set screw . In other embodiments an extension shaft may be used in conjunction with the half sleeve .

As mentioned above and shown in the half sleeve and instrument may be sized and dimensioned to be inserted into and used in conjunction with a cannula . In certain embodiment the half sleeve may include a mechanism such as a knob for attaching the half sleeve to the cannula . In this example the knob may be tightened down by the user to secure the cannula to the half sleeve . It should be understood that other suitable mechanisms for securing the half sleeve to the cannula can be employed.

Once inserted the half sleeve and insertion tool are used as the sleeve and plunger described above. By pressing down on the insertion tool while maintaining the position of the half sleeve the spinal fixation element is engaged by the connector body . In effect the distal end of the half sleeve applies an upward force on the spinal fixation element while the insertion tool applies a downward force on the connector body .

Up to this point all the embodiments discussed have been configured to be top loaded so as to engage the spinal fixation element from above. However it should be understood that some embodiment of the implant may be configured to engage a spinal fixation element from the side. An example of this can be seen in .

In the embodiment of the implant has a bone anchor and a connector body configured to engage the bone anchor and spinal fixation element . In the example depicted in the bone anchor and connector body are already assembled such that the proximal head of the bone anchor is engaged by the connector body leaving only the distal shaft of the bone anchor visible. The implant also includes a first locking mechanism and a second locking mechanism .

In this embodiment the connector body includes a lower clamp mechanism and an upper clamp mechanism configured to mate with the lower clamp mechanism to engage the spinal fixation element . The lower clamp mechanism and upper clamp mechanism further form a cavity for receiving the bone anchor .

The lower clamping mechanism includes a main boss and a tapered pin . The main boss is configured for mating the upper clamping mechanism to the lower clamping mechanism . As such the upper clamping mechanism rides around the main boss . The tapered pin is configured to engage the upper clamping mechanism to restrict the movement of the upper clamping mechanism around the main boss .

In this embodiment the implant is configured to be implanted adjacent to the spinal fixation element such that the spinal fixation element is offset from the longitudinal axis of the distal shaft of the bone anchor as shown in . The connector body is able to move polyaxially with respect to the bone anchor to engage the spinal fixation element . As such once the bone anchor has been implanted the connector body can be rotated 90 to engage the spinal fixation element . As the connector body is turned the upper clamping mechanism slides along the main boss and tapered pin allowing the upper clamping mechanism to move apart from the lower clamping mechanism so that the spinal fixation element may be inserted between the upper and lower clamping mechanism thereby being engaged by the connector body . An example of this can be seen in .

Once the spinal fixation element has been engaged by the connector body the spinal fixation element may be secured between the upper and lower clamping mechanism by tightening the second locking mechanism . In this embodiment the second locking mechanism is an outer nut that clamps the upper and lower clamping mechanisms together.

The polyaxial motion of the connector body may be fixed using the first locking mechanism . In this example the first locking mechanism is a set screw configured to engage the bone anchor and connector body to lock their positions relative to each other.

In the embodiment of the connector body includes a first half and a second half . The first half is configured to engage the proximal head of the bone anchor and mate with the second half to engage the spinal fixation element . The first half is pivotably coupled to the second half . The two halfs are inserted at the same time. The second half pivots away from the first half allowing the spinal fixation element to mate with the proximal head of the bone anchor . An example of this can be seen in .

The spinal fixation element is configured to engage the proximal head of the bone anchor . In this embodiment the spinal fixation device has a kidney shaped cross section. Other configurations such as an I beam shape cross section are also possible.

Once the spinal fixation element has engaged the proximal head the second half may be pivoted toward the first half to capture the spinal fixation element . An example of this can be seen in . In some such embodiments the first half coming together with the second half may have features that may provide audible or tactile feedback indicated the spinal fixation device has be engaged.

By capturing the spinal fixation element with the second half the second half pushes against the spinal fixation element . The spinal fixation element pushes against the proximal head of the bone anchor . The proximal head is pushed against the first half . The position of the connector body and spinal fixation device may then be secured by using locking mechanism . An example of this can be seen in .

Inserting the implant step may be performed using any appropriate method ideally a minimally invasive method including using a cannula k wire etc. Techniques and instruments for minimally invasive insertion are discussed in detail in the related applications application DUQ 034 entitled Minimally Invasive Guide System application Ser. No. 11 897 642 filed on Aug. 31 2007 and DUQ 037 entitled Method and System for Securing a Rod to a Bone Anchor with a Connector application Ser. No. 11 897 566 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 025 682 filed on Aug. 31 2007.

Engaging the spinal fixation device with the implant step may be performed using an instrument as describe in regard to or any traditional method including self retaining drivers cannulas lateral reduction instruments etc.

Securing the connector body step and or spinal fixation device step may be preformed using one or more locking members or securing mechanisms in any order as described above in regards to the various discussed embodiments.

A person having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the aforementioned methods and devices for securing a spinal fixation element can be modified depending on the type of spinal fixation element or implant being used as well as the specific procedure being employed. Moreover other methods and devices known in the art can be used in accordance with the present invention.

One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the invention based on the above described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited by what has been particularly shown and described except as indicated by the appended claims. All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

While the instruments and methods of the present invention have been particularly shown and described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that various changes may be made in the form and details herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain many equivalents to the exemplary embodiments described specifically herein by using no more than routine experimentation. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the scope of the present invention and the appended claims.

