---

title: Use of position data to select wireless access point
abstract: A mobile computing device comprises a radio frequency transceiver, a memory, and processing circuit. The radio frequency transceiver is configured to communicate with wireless access points. The memory is configured to store position data representative of a position of the mobile computing device and wireless access point data for a plurality of wireless access points. The processing circuit is configured to select one of the plurality of wireless access points based on the position data and to initiate wireless communication with the selected wireless access point.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288751&OS=09288751&RS=09288751
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09288751
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070829
---
Mobile computing devices such as mobile telephones laptop computers and personal digital assistants can communicate with different wireless networks in different locations. The same mobile computing device may communicate via a wired network in an office building a Wi Fi network at home or at a hotel and a cellular network while in a moving vehicle.

Described herein is a system and method which improves the speed with which a device may select and communicate with a wireless access point. Further described is a system and method of creating a database of preferred wireless access points using position data. Further described is a system and method that avoids wasting time looking for a preferred wireless access point in the wrong location. Further described is a system and method that saves battery power by avoiding scanning or polling for wireless access points not in the vicinity of the mobile computing device. Further described is a system and method of selecting a wireless access point based on position data which may be displayed for user initiated communication or used to initiate communication without user input e.g. automatically . Further described is a system and method of selecting a wireless access point based on position data and a database of wireless access points meeting security or reliability criteria.

The teachings herein extend to those embodiments which fall within the scope of the appended claims regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the above mentioned exemplary advantages.

Referring first to a mobile computing device is shown. Device is a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having personal digital assistant functionality and is configured to be carried by a user while in use. The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or other electronic devices e.g. a desktop personal computer etc. . Personal digital assistant functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording etc. and is configured to synchronize personal information from one or more applications with a computer e.g. desktop laptop server etc. . Device is further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download SecureDigital card etc.

Device comprises a housing having a front side and a back side . An earpiece speaker a loudspeaker and a user input device e.g. a plurality of keys are coupled to housing . Housing is configured to hold a screen in a fixed relationship above a user input device in a substantially parallel or same plane. This fixed relationship excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment. Device may be a handheld computer which is a computer small enough to be carried in a typical front pocket found in a pair of pants comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and personal digital assistants but excluding typical laptop computers and tablet PCs. In alternative embodiments display user input device earpiece and loudspeaker may each be positioned anywhere on front side back side or the edges therebetween.

In various embodiments device has a width shorter dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of no more than about 85 mm or no more than about 65 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a width of at least about 30 mm or at least about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of at least about 55 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a length longer dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 150 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of no more than about 135 mm or no more than about 125 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a length of at least about 70 mm or at least about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of at least about 110 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a thickness smallest dimension of no more than about 150 mm or no more than about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of no more than about 30 mm or no more than about 25 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 10 mm or at least about 15 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 50 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 2500 cubic centimeters and or up to about 1500 cubic centimeters. In some of these embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 1000 cubic centimeters and or up to about 600 cubic centimeters.

While described with regards to a handheld device many embodiments are usable with portable devices which are not handheld and or with non portable devices systems.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality through wireless access points WAPs in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. A wireless access point may comprise any one or more components of a wireless site used by device to create a wireless network system that connects to a wired infrastructure such as a wireless transceiver cell tower base station router cables servers or other components depending on the system architecture. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants a wireless personal area network PAN system such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit which may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise one processor more than two processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc. Alternatively processing circuit may comprise any digital and or analog circuit elements comprising discrete and or solid state components suitable for use with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application e.g. contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application web site favorites or bookmarks notes application etc. word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example an alphanumeric numeric or QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

Device may comprise a transceiver coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. For example transceiver may comprise a Wi Fi transceiver and a cellular or WAN transceiver configured to operate simultaneously.

The transceiver may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory etc. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more position determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc.

Device may be configured to operate in one or more position determination modes including for example a standalone mode a mobile station MS assisted mode and or a MS based mode. In a standalone mode such as a standalone GPS mode device may be configured to determine its position without receiving wireless navigation data from the network though it may receive certain types of position assist data such as almanac ephemeris and coarse data. In a standalone mode device may comprise a local position determination circuit e.g. a GPS receiver which may be integrated within housing configured to receive satellite data via an antenna and to calculate a position fix. Local position determination circuit may alternatively comprise a GPS receiver in a second housing separate from housing but in the vicinity of device and configured to communicate with device wirelessly e.g. via a PAN such as Bluetooth . When operating in an MS assisted mode or an MS based mode however device may be configured to communicate over a radio access network e.g. UMTS radio access network with a remote computer e.g. a position determination entity PDE a location proxy server LPS and or a mobile positioning center MPC etc. .

In an MS assisted mode such as an MS assisted AGPS mode the remote computer may be configured to determine the position of the mobile computing device and provide wireless data comprising a position fix. In an MS based mode such as an MS based AGPS mode device may be configured to determine its position using acquisition data or other wireless data from the remote computer . The acquisition data may be provided periodically. In various implementations device and the remote computer may be configured to communicate according to a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol such as the TIA EIA standard IS 801 message protocol for MS assisted and MS based sessions in a CDMA radiotelephone system.

When assisting the mobile computing device the remote computer may handle various processing operations and also may provide information to aid position determination. Examples of position assist data may include satellite based measurements terrestrial based measurements and or system based measurements such as satellite almanac information GPS code phase measurements ionospheric data ephemeris data time correction information altitude estimates timing offsets forward reverse link calibration coarse data and so forth.

In various implementations the position assist data provided by the remote computer may improve the speed of satellite acquisition and the probability of a position fix by concentrating the search for a GPS signal and or may improve the accuracy of position determination. Each position fix or series of position fixes may be available at device and or at the remote computer depending on the position determination mode. In some cases data calls may be made and position assist data may be sent to device from the remote computer for every position fix e.g. in an ad hoc mode . In other cases data calls may be made and position assist data may be sent periodically and or as needed.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support position determination. For example the transceiver and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support position determination.

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS location based service application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate position requests e.g. requests for position fixes and position responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless 911 emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

The LBS application may be configured to send a location request in response to receiving input from device or from a source external to device . For example the user of device may interact with a data input device to command the LBS application to send a location request. The LBS application also may send a location request in response to receiving input from an external network element or computing device that is attempting to locate the user of device . In some cases the LBS application also may be configured to automatically periodically and or autonomously send location requests.

Although other applications may operate without regard to the location of device in various embodiments the LBS application may request and receive position information to enhance the functionality of one or more of the other applications. For example position information may be provided in conjunction with a messaging application to locate the sender or recipient of a message. Position information may be provided to a web browser application to generate directions to a location associated with a particular website. Positioning information may be provided to a personal management application to generate location based alerts and or directions to a meeting place.

Radio processor may be configured to invoke a position fix by configuring a position engine and requesting a position fix. For example a position engine interface on radio processor may set configuration parameters that control the position determination process. Examples of configuration parameters may include without limitation location determination mode e.g. standalone MS assisted MS based actual or estimated number of position fixes e.g. single position fix series of position fixes request position assist data without a position fix time interval between position fixes Quality of Service QoS values optimization parameters e.g. optimized for speed accuracy or payload PDE address e.g. IP address and port number of LPS or MPC etc.

The radio processor may comprise or implement a position engine such as a GPS engine. In various embodiments the position engine may be configured to provide position determination capabilities for device . In some embodiments the position engine may be implemented as software operating in conjunction with hardware e.g. GPS receiver hardware allowing device to receive and process GPS satellites signals for position determination. In one embodiment the position engine may be implemented as a QUALCOMM gpsOne engine.

In various implementations the position engine may employ one or more position determination techniques such as GPS CGI CGI TA EFLT TDOA AOA AFTL OTDOA EOTD AGPS GPS AGPS hybrid techniques and so forth. The position engine also may be configured to operate in one or more position determination modes including a standalone mode an MS assisted mode and an MS based mode. The determined position information generated and or obtained by the position engine generally may comprise any type of information associated with the position of device . Examples of position data may include without limitation current location latitude longitude altitude heading information vector information such as horizontal and vertical velocity sector based position location position fix information position uncertainty device orientation cellular tower or cellular base station identifier and so forth.

Referring now to an exemplary system and method of using position data to select a wireless access point will be described. At step memory is configured to store position data representative of a position of the mobile computing device. The position data may be a position fix from position determination circuit which may be generated in response to a user input or may have been previously calculated but deemed by processing circuit to be sufficiently recent or current to represent an approximate position of the mobile computing device. The position data may be provided from a calendar application operated by processing circuit such as from a location field in a calendar appointment wherein a user has entered a location in the location field and processing circuit is configured to store or convert that location in a format suitable for use herein. The position data may be a cell site or cellular base station identifier generated by processing circuit and or received by processing circuit based on wireless communication via transceiver with a cellular base station. Thus the position data may be approximate estimated currently or previously calculated user entered or even assumed. Further the position data may be generated based on a plurality of these sources.

At step memory is also configured to store wireless access point data for a plurality of wireless access points. The wireless access point data may be prestored based on prior scanning operations performed minutes days or hours previous to this particular user interaction with device and or may be collected and stored based on a current scanning operation. The wireless access point data may comprise one or more of a service set identifier SSID a network identifier a media access control MAC address an internet protocol IP address etc. The wireless access point data further may comprise position data associated with the wireless access point which may be different for each wireless access point and which may be generated in any of a number of ways such as described with reference to below. The wireless access point data may optionally additionally comprise a configuration file or profile containing data useful to processing circuit to scan for initiate establish and or maintain communication with a wireless access point. The wireless access point data may be stored as a database or other structured collection of data or records wherein the records may further include data indicative of whether each wireless access point is in one or more user preferred lists e.g. a list which may be edited and maintained manually by the user or automatically updated based on whether a user has established communication with the a wireless access point a prioritization scheme for the wireless access points based on recently used or frequency of use criteria signal strength cost information for use of the network network account or membership information whether the wireless access points meets security and or reliability criteria hours of operation etc. Processing circuit may be configured to use any one or more of these records in the database to assist the user in manually or automatically selecting a wireless access point to scan for or with which to initiate establish and or maintain communication.

At step processing circuit is configured to select one of the plurality of wireless access points based on the position data and at step to initiate wireless communication with the selected wireless access point. The selection may be done in response to a user selection or without user selection based on pre programmed criteria. Processing circuit may use the position data of mobile computing device to identify one or more wireless access points in the vicinity of mobile computing device and then select the one or more wireless access points from among the database of wireless access points for further processing. Whether a wireless access point is in the vicinity of mobile computing device may depend on the type of device position data and the type of wireless access point position data being used in the comparison. Vicinity criteria may be one or more of an estimated size of a cell site a predetermined distance within a city or other geographically defined vicinity e.g. zip code etc. Processing circuit may use the position data to narrow the available networks or wireless access points that device will consider for communication by determining that the wireless access points meet the vicinity characteristic or criteria. Processing circuit may be configured to apply further criteria or characteristics beyond the position data to select a wireless access point or network for communication such as which network is on a preferred or trusted list which network has a faster communication speed which has a stronger signal etc. According to one embodiment at least one additional characteristic is applied to the narrowing or selection of wireless access points only if a plurality of identified wireless access points are within a vicinity of the mobile computing device e.g. the wireless access points share a common cell ID characteristic are within the same or approximately the same distance from device etc. This step of applying further criteria beyond the vicinity criteria may be particularly useful where the position data identifies a plurality of networks meeting the vicinity or nearness criteria.

According to one embodiment processing circuit is configured to initiate the wireless communication with the selected wireless access point prior to scanning or polling for available wireless access points at a position. In this embodiment time and power may be saved by avoiding the process of scanning for a wireless access point previously stored in the database which is known to processing circuit to be distant from the position of mobile computing device. For example processing circuit may be configured to filter or select from some or all wireless access point data in the database based on position and or known wireless access points e.g. which may be known because device has previously connected to them previously found them in a scanning operation or learned of them from manual entry by a user via a user input device or memory card etc. and to provide an output list which is a subset of the database comprising one or more wireless access points. Processing circuit may display the output list to the user for selection of one of the wireless access points to cause processing circuit to initiate communication with the selected wireless access point. If the output list comprises only one wireless access point processing circuit may automatically or without user input initiate or attempt to initiate communication with the wireless access point in the list. If the output list comprises no wireless access points processing circuit may display all wireless access points in the database in any order e.g. a random order previously defined user preferred order or an order based on other records in the database and or may initiate a scanning operation to find additional wireless access points within communication range of device .

According to another embodiment in response to a user enabling the radio frequency transceiver e.g. by powering on the device powering on the radio transceiver selecting an operation in an application requiring wireless communication etc. processing circuit is configured to retrieve the device position data from memory select one of the plurality of wireless access points based on the position data and initiate the wireless communication with the selected wireless access point all without requiring further user input e.g. automatically . If a plurality of wireless access points meet the position criteria processing circuit may be configured to initiate communication with the first wireless access point it finds meeting the position criteria or it may use other database records to select one wireless access point for communication. In either case of automatic or manual initiation of communication if the selected wireless access point is unavailable or communication is not otherwise established processing circuit may be configured to scan for available wireless access points e.g. which scanning may only occur if the selected wireless access point is unavailable or may occur prior to selection of the wireless access point and display identifiers for the found wireless access points to the user for selection. In an alternative embodiment if processing circuit finds a plurality of wireless access points meeting the position criteria processing circuit may be configured to display the wireless access points and one or more of the records from the database on display and seek user selection or confirmation of a particular wireless access point for communication. The user may also be allowed to pre program a preferred one of a subset of wireless access points meeting the position criteria for automatic connection.

According to one exemplary embodiment processing circuit is configured to display a plurality of wireless access point identifiers for nearby wireless access points only if the processing circuit fails to identify a preferred wireless access point identifier in the database based on the retrieved position data.

In step initiation of the wireless communication may comprise scanning to find a wireless signal associated with the wireless access point attempting to initiate or scan establishing or attempting to establish wireless communication etc. The initiation may be done in response to user input e.g. selection or confirmation or without requiring user input. If the network associated with the wireless access point is open and available communication can be established. If the network is closed locked proprietary or secure device may be configured to provide a password or other credentials either from memory or from a user.

Referring now to a system and method of associating position data with a wireless access point identifier will be described according to an exemplary embodiment. Steps may be used for any purpose one example of which is to acquire position data associated with a wireless access point. At step device is configured to display a plurality of wireless access point identifiers on display . The wireless access point identifiers may be received as a result of a scanning operation in which processing circuit scans or polls for wireless access points within communication range of transceiver . Alternatively the wireless access point identifiers may be manually input or edited by a user pre programmed by a manufacturer service professional or enterprise information technology professional downloaded from a network wirelessly or via a wired connection from a remote server downloaded via a memory card etc. and may be downloaded pursuant to a subscription service such as Boingo Wireless Inc. Santa Monica Calif.

At step processing circuit is configured to receive a user selection of one of the wireless access points identifiers via user input device . At step processing circuit is configured to initiate communication with the wireless access point in response to receiving the user selection which as describe above may include an attempt to initiate. At step processing circuit is configured to retrieve or receive position data representative of a position of device or the wireless access point which may be retrieved from memory or generated in this step. The position data may be based on a cell tower ID which is representative of both the position of device and the wireless access point. Further processing circuit may receive latitude longitude data of device . The other methods of determining position described in this specification may be implemented.

At step processing circuit is configured to associate the wireless access point identifier with the position data in the memory. The data may be stored as a data pair or record comprising the wireless access point identifier and the position data. One or more position data points may be associated with a wireless access point identifier.

The method of may occur at different times over the lifetime of device . As device establishes communication with each wireless access point processing circuit stores the wireless access point identifier and associated position data in a list or database record indicating recently used or frequency of use criteria signal strength cost information for use of the network network account or membership information whether the wireless access points meets security and or reliability criteria etc. The feature of storing position data associated with each wireless access point with which device initiates or establishes communication may be enabled or disabled by the user.

According to one embodiment processing circuit is configured to create a database of preferred wireless access point identifiers based on a user manually selecting each wireless access point and initiating communication with each wireless access point and retrieving the associated position data based on the current position of the mobile computing device.

Referring now to a system and method of using position data to select a wireless access point will be described according to an exemplary embodiment. At step processing circuit is configured to store wireless access point data and associated position data for a plurality of wireless access points. At step processing circuit is configured to retrieve a current position of the mobile computing device which may be done using any of the techniques described in this specification. At step processing circuit is configured to use the current position data to select wireless access point data from memory. At step processing circuit is configured to attempt to initiate communication with a wireless access point based on the selected wireless access point data. The attempt to initiate communication may comprise a scanning polling or search operation and may be limited to wireless access points in a preferred list. The step of initiating may be done without requiring input from the user.

Referring now to a system and method of using position data to select a wireless access point will be described. At step device is configured to generate position data representing a position of a mobile computing device. At step processing circuit is configured to access a database of wireless access point data representing wireless access points meeting at least one of a security criterion or reliability criterion. The database may be local in memory or may be stored on a remote server and accessed wirelessly via a WAN such as a cellular network. The database may further be a subscription service. Processing circuit may be configured to determine whether a wireless access point meets the security or reliability criterion by determining whether the wireless access point is a member of the remote database of approved wireless access points. The security criterion or reliability criterion can be predetermined by the service provider or by the user and may be used by device as a filter. For example the service provider may screen out networks having insufficient security measures to prevent keylogging data or other security attacks. The security criteria may comprise social criteria. For example a wireless access point must have an access point server in a locked environment to avoid tampering by employees. The security criteria may comprise technical criteria. For example a provider of the access point may be required to run software on their local wireless system that reports statistics and usage to the service provider aggregator to check for keylogging or traffic re routing. The software would either create a unique identifier allowing client devices to see the provider or add it to a trusted list.

At step processing circuit is configured to select a subset e.g. one or more of the wireless access point data in the database based on the position data.

According to one embodiment processing circuit is configured to create the database of preferred wireless access points based at least in part on the wireless access points meeting a security or reliability criterion

In one use scenario of an exemplary embodiment a user of device launches an application requiring or requesting wireless communication with a wireless access point in particular a Wi Fi network access point. Rather than scan for identify and or attempt to establish communications with all available Wi Fi networks or even Wi Fi networks in a user s preferred or recently access list which consumes time and battery life processing circuit first requests a position fix from position determination circuit . Position determination circuit generates a position fix and forwards the position fix to processing circuit . Processing circuit searches a database of Wi Fi access points in memory for access points known to be within a predetermined distance of the currently generated position fix. One Wi Fi access point is identified from the database. Processing circuit then receives the Wi Fi access point SSID and other configuration or profile data and attempts to initiate communication with the Wi Fi access point. If the communication attempt does not succeed processing circuit then obtains a cell tower ID from a nearby cell site and uses the cell tower ID to search for additional Wi Fi access points in the database. Once one is found communication is initiated and established.

In the scenario the process may require no user input or may allow user input at various stages. The process may be transparent to the user or may provide visual or audible prompts throughout the process to apprise the user the steps being taken by device .

In another use scenario a user carriers device into a Starbucks store in City A offering a T Mobile Wi Fi network service. A user has learned from past experience that the speed of the T Mobile Wi Fi network at this location is good but the speed of a second T Mobile Wi Fi network at a Starbuck s store in City B is slower so the user prefers to use a Google Wi Fi network at the Starbuck s store in City B. When in City A device compares its position data to its database of wireless access points and selects the T Mobile Wi Fi network service as the preferred WAP at this location. When in City B device compares its position data to its database of wireless access points and selects the Google Wi Fi network. In this scenario the T Mobile Wi Fi network services both use the same SSID but the position different allows device to distinguish one from the other.

In another use scenario with reference to the embodiment of a user arrives in an airport in Oklahoma City having never been to Oklahoma. Thus the user s device does not have any database of previously connected Wi Fi access points for that position. When device is activated device scans for and identifies twenty different access points. The user does not know which of the identified access points are for trusted networks and which are run by unscrupulous entities. The user invokes an application on device which retrieves position data for device and searches a database of approved access points to select an approved trusted network within the vicinity of device . The database may be one operated by Boingo Wireless Inc. is local to device and updated periodically e.g. daily weekly with each data synchronization whenever a wireless communication is established etc. The application selects a trusted wireless access point for the location and wireless communication is established.

One or more of the processes described in this specification may be operable from a software module such as a connection manager such as a Wi Fi smart connection manager. The Wi Fi smart connection manager may be configured to use position data to select a subset of wireless access points and to then pass the subset of wireless access points to a connection manager configured to establish a wireless connection.

One or more of the process steps may be accomplished automatically i.e. without requiring user input in various embodiments.

One or more embodiments may use data indicating that device has connected to a wireless access point in roughly or approximately the same location during a previous time to connect optionally automatically connect to a same wireless access point.

According to one embodiment the database record for a wireless access point may comprise more than one position data which may further be obtained from different sources e.g. a location field from a calendar application and a position fix from a position determination circuit may both be stored . For example if processing circuit determines that more than one Wi Fi network is within the vicinity or range of device A GPS GPS and or calendar data may be checked to select a preferred network at that location.

With reference to the disclosure and claims use of the phrase based on means based in least in part on and use of the term a an or one means one or more or at least one. Further any of the steps of any of the methods disclosed herein may be combined with any of the other steps and or rearranged with other steps in alternative embodiments. Specifically various embodiments may make use of different combinations of parts or all of the methods disclosed herein.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the Figs. and described above are presently exemplary it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

