---

title: Operator backrest and knee support pad for a materials handling vehicle
abstract: An operator backrest in combination with a materials handling vehicle is provided. The backrest may comprise a primary support pad and gripping structure located in at least one side portion of the primary support pad. The gripping structure may be substantially even with or extend above a surface of a portion of the primary support pad surrounding the gripping structure for engagement with an operator positioned on the materials handling vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07793979&OS=07793979&RS=07793979
owner: Crown Equipment Corporation
number: 07793979
owner_city: New Bremen
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070202
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 764 882 filed Feb. 3 2006 and entitled OPERATOR BACKREST AND KNEE SUPPORT PAD FOR A MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLE and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 864 211 filed Nov. 3 2006 entitled OPERATOR BACKREST AND KNEE SUPPORT PAD FOR A MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLE the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

It is known to provide a backrest in a walk through operator compartment for a materials handling vehicle. In some prior art vehicles the backrest is provided with side bolsters that extend outward. The side bolsters have been found to be disadvantageous as they narrow the pathway through the walk through operator compartment and hence make operator movement through the operator compartment more difficult.

A support pad for a vehicle such as a pallet truck is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 948 739 B2 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

There is a need for an improved backrest for use in a materials handling vehicle having a walk through operator compartment.

In accordance with the present invention an operator backrest is provided for a materials handling vehicle having a walk through operator compartment wherein the backrest may not include one or more side bolsters. Instead the backrest is defined by a primary support pad having a generally curvilinear surface wherein the outer side portions extend at an angle to a plane generally tangent with a center portion of the support pad at angle less than about 45 degrees. Hence the side portions do not substantially hinder operator movement through the walk through operator compartment. Further gripping structure is provided in the side portions of the primary support pad to grip an operator s back hips during vehicle movement including movement of the vehicle through a turn.

Further in accordance with the present invention an operator backrest is provided for a materials handling vehicle having an operator compartment with a single entrance into the compartment. The backrest may have at least one bolster near the entrance into the compartment. Preferably incorporated into the bolster is gripping structure for gripping an operator during vehicle movement.

In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention an operator backrest in combination with a materials handling vehicle is provided. The backrest may comprise a primary support pad and gripping structure located in at least one side portion of the primary support pad. The gripping structure may be substantially even with or extend above a surface of a portion of the primary support pad surrounding the gripping structure for engagement with an operator positioned on the materials handling vehicle.

The gripping structure may be formed integral with the primary support pad. Alternatively the gripping structure may be formed separate from the primary support pad.

The gripping structure may comprise at least one geometric element having a generally circular generally rectangular generally elliptical or generally L shaped shape.

It is also contemplated that the gripping structure may comprise a first main body having a first base section and a plurality of first elements which are flexible relative to the first base section. The first main body may be located in a first side portion of the primary support pad. The first side portion may be curvilinear.

The primary support pad may further include a central portion. The first side portion may extend relative to a plane generally tangent with the central portion at an angle greater than about 45 degrees.

The gripping structure may further comprise a second main body having a second base section and a plurality of second elements which are flexible relative to the second base section. The second main body may be located in a second side portion of the primary support pad. The second side portion may be curvilinear. Each of the first and second side portions may extend relative to a plane generally tangent with a central portion at an angle less than about 45 degrees.

In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention a materials handling vehicle is provided comprising a walk through operator compartment. The operator compartment may comprise opposing first and second walls and a backrest associated with the first wall. The backrest may comprise a primary support pad and gripping structure located in at least one side portion of the primary support pad. The gripping structure may be substantially even with or extend above a surface of a portion of the primary support pad surrounding the gripping structure for engagement with an operator positioned on the materials handling vehicle.

The gripping structure may comprise at least one geometric element having a generally circular generally rectangular generally elliptical or generally L shaped shape.

It is also contemplated that the gripping structure may comprise a first main body located in a first side portion of the primary support pad and a second main body located in a second side portion of the primary support pad. The first main body may have a first base section and a plurality of first elements which are flexible relative to the first base section and the second main body may have a second base section and a plurality of second elements which are flexible relative to the second base section.

The primary support pad may further include a central portion. Each of the first and second side portions may extend relative to a plane passing through the central portion at an angle less than about 45 degrees.

The operator compartment may further comprise a first knee support pad associated with the second wall comprising a first main body having a first base section and a plurality of first elements. The first elements may be flexible relative to the first base section. Alternatively the first elements may be substantially non flexible in at least one direction and separated from one another by recesses.

The operator compartment may further comprise a second knee support pad associated with the second wall comprising a second main body having a second base section and a plurality of second elements which are flexible relative to the second base section.

In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention a materials handling vehicle is provided comprising an operator compartment with a single entrance into and out of the operator compartment. The operator compartment may comprise a backrest comprising a primary support pad and gripping structure located in at least one side portion of the primary support pad. The gripping structure may be substantially even with or extend above a surface of a portion of the primary support pad surrounding the gripping structure for engagement with an operator positioned on the materials handling vehicle.

The gripping structure may comprise at least one geometric element having a generally circular generally rectangular generally elliptical or generally L shaped shape.

It is also contemplated that the gripping structure may comprise a main body having a base section and at least one element which is flexible relative to the base section. The main body may be located in a first side portion of the primary support pad.

In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present invention a materials handling vehicle is provided comprising a walk through operator compartment comprising opposing first and second walls. A first knee support pad is associated with one of the first and second walls. The support pad comprises a first main body having a first base section and a plurality of first elements which are substantially non flexible relative to the first base section. The first elements are separated from one another by recesses.

The first base section is shaped to define a recess such that the first main body functions as a leaf spring to absorb and attenuate forces applied by an operator s knee against the first main body.

The operator compartment may further comprise a second knee support pad associated with the one wall comprising a second main body having a second base section and a plurality of second elements which are substantially non flexible relative to the second base section. The second elements are separated from one another by recesses.

In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present invention a materials handling vehicle is provided comprising a vehicle main body and a kneepad. The vehicle main body includes a knee recess in an operator compartment for receiving an operator s knee. The knee recess may be defined by at least two walls that meet at a corner section. The kneepad has a corner portion positioned to cover a corner section of the vehicle main body. The corner portion comprises a pad main body including a base section and a plurality of first elements which are flexible relative to the base section.

The pad main body may be configured to define a pocket such that the pad main body functions as a leaf spring to absorb and attenuate forces applied by an operator s knee against the pad main body.

The first elements comprise ribs. The ribs may extend at an angle to a horizontal plane of from about 10 degrees to about 60 degrees.

Referring now to a materials handling vehicle comprising a low level order picker is illustrated. The vehicle comprises a power unit containing a traction motor brake assembly not shown coupled to a drive wheel see for driving and braking the drive wheel . The drive wheel is positioned below the power unit . A non driven caster wheel not shown is also positioned below the power unit . A power steering motor not shown is provided in the power unit for turning the drive wheel i.e. to allow the vehicle to be steered. A hydraulic pump motor not shown is also housed within the power unit for providing pressurized hydraulic fluid to a piston cylinder unit not shown for raising and lowering first and second forks and relative to a load backrest . The forks and are illustrated in but are not shown in and . A load wheel assembly A A is coupled to each fork . A battery compartment houses a battery and is provided adjacent the power unit . The battery provides power to the traction motor brake assembly the power steering motor and the hydraulic pump motor. A walk through operator compartment is positioned between the battery compartment and the load backrest . An operator when positioned within the operator compartment may control the speed braking and direction of the vehicle and the height of the forks via a control handle structure .

The operator compartment may comprise opposing first and second walls and and a backrest coupled to the first wall see . In the illustrated embodiment the backrest comprises a primary support pad having upper and lower sections A and B integral with one another. The backrest further comprises gripping structure located in first and second side portions A and B of the lower section B of the support pad see .

In accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention the primary support pad includes an inner surface having four molded in threaded inserts or nuts A and two molded in studs or bolts B see . The nuts A are molded into an inner surface B of the lower section B of the support pad while the bolts B are molded into an inner surface A of the upper section A of the support pad see also . The first wall of the operator compartment includes a center plate A side plates B and C joined to the center plate A and a back plate D that defines a back of the backrest and curves around to define backrest sides and joins with the side plates B and C see and . A bracket E is coupled to a horizontal plate F which in turn is coupled to the back plate D see . The upper section A of the primary support pad is connected to the bracket E via nuts C coupled to the bolts B molded into and extending down from the upper section A of the support pad . The lower section B of the support pad is connected to the center plate A via bolts D which pass through the center plate A and threadedly engage the nuts A molded into the lower section B.

In accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention the primary support pad is formed in substantially the same manner as the support pad illustrated in and A except that it includes three molded in clips A C instead of molded in studs or bolts B for securing the upper section A of the support pad to first wall see A and B. Each clip A C has an L shape see . The upper section A of the support pad is not illustrated in . The clip A engages a corresponding bracket A coupled to the side plate B the clip B engages a corresponding bracket B see secured to the back plate D and the clip C engages a corresponding bracket C coupled to the side plate C. As in the embodiment illustrated in the support pad includes nuts A molded into an inner surface of the lower section B of the support pad . Hence the upper section A of the primary support pad is coupled to the side plates B and C and the back plate D via the clips A C engaging corresponding brackets coupled to the side plates B and C and the back plate D. The lower section B of the support pad is connected to the center plate A via bolts D which pass through the center plate A and threadedly engage the nuts molded into the lower section B.

An outer surface B of the lower section B of the support pad has a generally curvilinear shape see . A central portion C of the lower section B of the support pad is positioned between the first and second side portions A and B. As is apparent from the first and second side portions A and B extend at an angle of less than about 45 degrees to a plane P generally tangent with an outer surface C of the central portion C of the support pad lower section B. Hence the side portions A and B extend only minimally into an open area A defined between the first and second walls and of the operator compartment see . For example the open area A may have a width W extending from the support pad to the second wall that falls within the range of from about 400 mm to about 600 mm and preferably is about 475 mm see . Consequently the side portions A and B of the support pad lower section B do not substantially hinder operator movement into and out of the walk through operator compartment .

The inner surface B of the lower section B of the support pad includes first second third and fourth support ribs A D see which engage the center plate A when the pad is mounted to the first wall . A recess E is defined between the second and third support ribs B and C to allow the support pad to be somewhat flexible in the central portion C so as to improve operator comfort when an operator leans against the support pad .

In the illustrated embodiment the gripping structure comprises first and second main bodies and respectively see . The first main body is located in the first side portion A of the support pad lower section B while the second main body is located in the second side portion B of the support pad lower section B. In the illustrated embodiment the first and second main bodies and are formed integral with the support pad . However it is contemplated that the first and second main bodies and may comprise separate elements coupled by adhesive fasteners or the like to the support pad .

The first main body comprises inner and outer surfaces and respectively see . The inner surface faces toward the center plate A while the outer surface is visible by the operator. The first main body further includes a plurality of first elements ribs in the illustrated embodiment which are flexible relative to a first base section of the first main body . The ribs may have a length L the length Lof only one rib is designated in in a Y direction which falls within a range of from about 60 mm to about 170 mm see . The ribs may also have a width W the width Wof only one rib is designated in in an X direction of between about 4 mm and about 6 mm. A gap G only a single gap Gbetween a pair of adjacent ribs is designated in between adjacent ribs in the X direction may have a dimension of between about 4 mm and about 6 mm. The ribs may have a height extending from the first base section that falls within a range of from about 1 mm to about 10 mm. Preferably the ribs are substantially even with or extend above a portion D of the support pad surrounding the first main body . For example the ribs may extend from about 0 mm to about 6 mm above portion D. Due to their shape and size the ribs are adapted to engage an operator s back and or hip when an operator engages i.e. leans against the backrest . When the operator is engaged with the backrest during vehicle travel including vehicle turns the ribs assist in maintaining the operator within the operator compartment . This is especially true when an operator pushes against the control handle structure so as to push his her back hips into the support pad .

The second main body comprises inner and outer surfaces and respectively see . The inner surface faces toward the center plate A while the outer surface is visible by the operator. The second main body further includes a plurality of second elements ribs in the illustrated embodiment which are flexible relative to a second base section of the second main body . The ribs may have a length L the length Lof only one rib is designated in in a Y direction that falls within a range of from about 60 mm to about 170 mm. The ribs may also have a width W the width Wof only one rib is designated in in an X direction of between about 4 mm and about 6 mm. A gap G only a single gap Gbetween a pair of adjacent ribs is designated in between adjacent ribs in the X direction may have a dimension of between about 4 mm and about 6 mm. The ribs may have a height H the height Hof only one rib is designated in extending from the second base section in a Z direction that falls within a range of from about 1 mm to about 10 mm. Preferably the ribs are substantially even with or extend above a portion E of the support pad surrounding the second main body . For example the ribs extend from about 0 mm to about 6 mm above portion E. Due to their shape and size the ribs are adapted to engage an operator s back and or hip when an operator engages i.e. leans against the backrest . When the operator is engaged with the backrest during vehicle travel including vehicle turns the ribs assist in maintaining the operator within the operator compartment . This is especially true when an operator pushes against the control handle structure so as to push his her back hips into the support pad .

The primary support pad including the first and second main bodies and may be formed from a polymeric material such as polyurethane via a reaction injection molding operation. The support pad including the first and second main bodies and may also be formed from a synthetic rubber via a compression molding operation. Preferably the support pad is formed from a material so as to be durable and comfortable to an operator.

The first and second elements rather than being shaped like ribs having a generally oval cross section may have other geometric shapes e.g. the ribs may have a generally circular generally rectangular generally square generally elliptical generally triangular or similar cross section.

In the embodiment illustrated in a perch or shelf is provided beneath the operator pad . In the perch is shown in its UP position. A narrow slot is formed in the support pad to allow a support not shown for the perch to move vertically when the perch is adjusted in a vertical direction. When in the UP position an operator may rest against the perch while driving the vehicle . The perch may also be pivoted to a DOWN position so as to be out of the way to allow an operator to easily move through the walk through passenger compartment . A button A extends through an opening A in the support pad . The button A may be engaged by an operator to allow for vertical adjustment and or pivotable movement of the perch . In the embodiment illustrated in a perch is not provided.

Referring to the second wall of the operator compartment is defined by a polymeric mat having first and second knee support pads and respectively incorporated therein. That is the knee support pads and are integral with the polymeric mat in the illustrated embodiment. Alternatively the knee support pads and may comprise separate elements coupled to the mat via adhesive fasteners or the like.

The mat may include three molded in threaded inserts or nuts A shown in only one of which is illustrated in . Bolts B extend through a wall A of the battery compartment and engage the nuts A so as to secure the mat to the battery compartment wall A see also .

The mat has a front side which is visible to an operator and a back side which is positioned adjacent to the battery compartment wall A see and . A channel A is formed in the back side of the mat for receiving a wiring harness not shown coupled to the control handle structure . The channel A also receives a U shaped reinforcement member B coupled to the wall A. The back side of the mat is also provided with pockets B for receiving hinge members C associated with the wall A see . The hinge members C allow the wall A to pivot relative to a base wall D of the battery compartment . Finally the back side of the mat is provided with first and second recesses and corresponding respectively to the first and second support pads and .

The first knee support pad comprises a first main body having a first base section and a plurality of first elements ribs in the illustrated embodiment which are flexible relative to the first base section . The first recess is provided behind the first main body . The second knee support pad comprises a second main body having a second base section and a plurality of second elements ribs in the illustrated embodiment which are flexible relative to the second base section . The second recess is defined behind the second main body .

Preferably the ribs and do not extend beyond a plane Pin which an outer surface of the mat including outer surface portions A surrounding the first and second knee support pads and are located see .

The ribs and may have a width Wof from about 3 mm to about 4 mm and a height Hthat falls within a range of from about 0.5 mm to about 12 mm. Gaps Gseparating adjacent ribs and may have a dimension of from about 5 mm to about 6 mm. As will be apparent to one skilled in the art other shapes and dimensions may be used for the first and second elements.

When an operator is driving the vehicle in a direction indicated by arrow A in the operator may rest his her knees against the first and second main bodies and . Due to the configuration of the first and second base sections of the first and second main bodies the main bodies function as leaf springs to absorb and attenuate forces applied by the operator s knees against the first and second main bodies and . This spring like mechanism inherent in the configuration or shape of the first and second base sections in conjunction with the flexible first and second ribs provide two separate mechanisms for absorbing and attenuating forces delivered to the first and second main bodies by the operator s knees.

Reference is now made to which illustrate a backrest constructed in accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention. The backrest is shown in mounted within an operator compartment of a stand up counterbalanced fork lift truck . The fork lift truck includes a main body first and second driven wheels coupled to a front portion of the main body only the first wheel is illustrated in and a steerable wheel assembly coupled to a rear portion of the main body . It is contemplated that the backrest may be mounted within a variety of other materials handling vehicles as well.

The operator compartment is located within the main body for receiving an operator. As is apparent from the main body includes a single entrance into and out of the operator compartment . In addition to including the backrest the operator compartment further includes an armrest . The speed and direction of movement forward or reverse of the truck can be controlled by the operator when positioned in the operator compartment via a multifunction controller MFC. Steering is effected via a tiller A.

In the embodiment illustrated in the backrest comprises a primary structure or primary support pad having a main portion a single side bolster extending outwardly from the main portion and gripping structure . The primary structure is contoured to receive an operator s back and or hips while an operator is standing in the operator compartment and driving the truck . The side bolster is located near the operator compartment entrance see . In the illustrated embodiment the side bolster extends outwardly from the main portion at an angle greater than about 45 degrees see A and B. The gripping structure comprising a separate insert coupled to the side bolster for gripping an operator during movement of the truck . However the gripping structure could be formed integral with the primary structure .

In the illustrated embodiment the gripping structure comprises a main body having a plurality of first elements ribs in the illustrated embodiment which are flexible relative to a first base section of the main body see . The ribs may have a length in a Y direction see of between about 50 mm and 150 mm. The ribs may also have a width W the width Wof only one rib is designated in of between about 4 mm and about 6 mm. A gap G only a single gap Gbetween a pair of adjacent ribs is designated in between adjacent ribs may have a dimension of between about 4 mm and about 6 mm. The ribs may have a height extending from the first base section that falls within a range of from about 1 mm to about 10 mm. Preferably the ribs are substantially even with or extend above a portion A of the side bolster surrounding the main body . For example the ribs extend from about 0 mm to about 6 mm above portion A. Due to their shape and size the ribs are adapted to engage an operator s back and or hip when an operator engages i.e. leans against the backrest . When the operator is engaged with the backrest during truck travel including truck turns the ribs assist in maintaining the operator within the operator compartment .

The primary structure comprises an outer skin A and an inner foam section B see . The outer skin A may comprise a polymeric material such as molded vinyl and the inner foam section B may be formed from a polymeric material such as polyurethane foam. The gripping structure main body may be formed from a polymeric material such as a synthetic rubber.

In a first embodiment illustrated in a steel insert is molded into the primary structure . Threaded inserts or nuts are also molded into the primary structure . Threaded bolts are molded into the gripping structure main body . The main body may be coupled to primary structure by passing the bolts through corresponding openings in the steel insert and subsequently connecting the nuts to the bolts . The operation of coupling the main body to the steel insert is effected prior to a foaming operation to form the inner foam section B. Also an outer skin layer A is positioned between the main body and the steel insert prior to coupling the main body to the steel insert .

In a second embodiment illustrated in a steel plate is positioned behind the primary structure . The gripping structure main body is molded with two or more tabs A which extend through bores in the primary structure and lockingly engage bores in the steel plate .

In a third embodiment illustrated in a steel plate is positioned behind the primary structure . Threaded inserts or nuts A are molded into the gripping structure main body . Bolts B extend through bores in the steel plate and threadedly engage the nuts A so as to coupled the main body to the primary structure .

The primary structure having the gripping structure main body coupled thereto may be connected to a wall A of the truck main body via adhesive bolts or other like connecting mechanisms.

In accordance with yet a further embodiment of the present invention a backrest for use in the truck of may include gripping structure comprising a single pad A having a long and narrow shape see . The single pad A is secured to a primary structure or primary support pad of the backrest via an adhesive such as cement glue or an industrial grade double stick tape. Preferably the single pad A extends above a portion A of a side bolster of the backrest surrounding the pad A by an amount of from about 3 mm to about 6 mm. The single pad A may be formed from a polymeric material such as a synthetic rubber. The primary structure may comprise an outer skin A and an inner foam section B which may be formed from the same materials from which the outer skin A and the inner foam section B are formed in the embodiments illustrated in and described above.

In a still further embodiment of the present invention instead of using the long and narrow single pad A illustrated in a pad A formed from substantially the same material as pad A but having generally the same outer peripheral shape as the gripping structure of the embodiment may be used see A and B.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a backrest for use in the truck of may include gripping structure comprising first second and third ribs which are formed integral with a primary structure or primary support pad of the backrest see . The ribs have a long and narrow shape. Preferably the ribs extend above a portion A of a side bolster of the backrest surrounding the ribs by an amount of from about 3 mm to about 6 mm. The primary structure including the ribs may comprise an outer skin A and an inner foam section not shown which may be formed from the same materials from which the outer skin A and the inner foam section B are formed in the embodiments illustrated in and described above. Due to their shape and size the ribs are adapted to engage an operator s back and or hip when an operator engages i.e. leans against the backrest . When the operator is engaged with the backrest during truck travel including truck turns the ribs assist in maintaining the operator within the operator compartment .

In yet another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in the gripping structure comprises a plurality of generally circular gripping pads . The gripping pads are formed integral with a primary structure or primary support pad of the backrest . Preferably the pads extend above a portion A of a side bolster of the backrest surrounding the pads by an amount of from about 3 mm to about 6 mm. The primary structure including the pads may comprise an outer skin A and an inner foam section not shown which may be formed from the same materials from which the outer skin A and the inner foam section B are formed in the embodiments illustrated in and described above. Due to their shape and size the ribs are adapted to engage an operator s back and or hip when an operator engages i.e. leans against the backrest .

In still another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in the gripping structure comprises a single L shaped rib . The L shaped rib is formed integral with a primary structure or primary support pad of the backrest illustrated in . Preferably the rib extends above a portion A of a side bolster of the backrest surrounding the rib by an amount of from about 3 mm to about 6 mm. The primary structure including the rib may comprise an outer skin A and an inner foam section not shown which may be formed from the same materials from which the outer skin A and the inner foam section B are formed in the embodiments illustrated in and described above. Due to its shape and size the rib is adapted to engage an operator s back and or hip when an operator engages i.e. leans against the backrest .

The operator compartment of the stand up counterbalanced fork lift truck of is further illustrated in . As shown in a knee recess is provided in the operator compartment for receiving a knee of an operator when the operator is standing and or sitting in the operator compartment . The knee recess is defined by first second and third metal walls A C of the truck main body see . A kneepad is also provided in the operator compartment and is adapted to cover a fourth metal wall D of the main body as well as a corner section E of the main body located where the first and fourth walls A and D come together. A main body portion of the kneepad is intended to be contacted by a left knee of an operator when the operator is standing and or sitting in the operator compartment . A corner portion of the kneepad is positioned to cover the corner section E of the main body.

The corner portion comprises a main body having a plurality of first elements ribs in the illustrated embodiment which are flexible relative to a base section of the main body see . The ribs may have a width W the width Wof only one rib is designated in of between about 3 mm and about 6 mm. A gap G only a single gap Gbetween a pair of adjacent ribs is designated in between adjacent ribs may have a dimension of between about 4 mm and about 6 mm. The ribs may extend downwardly from a horizontal plane P see at an angle of between about 10 degrees and about 60 degrees and preferably about 45 degrees. Due to their shape and size the ribs are adapted to be engaged by an operator s knee should an operator accidentally make contact with the corner section E of the main body when the operator is inserting his her knee into the knee recess .

As is apparent from the base section of the main body is configured such that a pocket is defined behind the ribs and the base section when a force is not being applied to the main body . The main body is capable of deforming inwardly toward the corner section E when a force is applied thereto. Hence the base section of the pad main body functions as a leaf spring to absorb and attenuate forces applied by the operator s knee against the main body . This spring like mechanism inherent in the configuration or shape of the base section in conjunction with the flexible ribs provide two separate mechanisms for absorbing and attenuating forces delivered to the pad main body by an operator s knee.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention the second wall of the operator compartment may be defined by a polymeric mat having first and second knee support pads and respectively incorporated therein see . That is the knee support pads and are integral with the polymeric mat in this embodiment. Alternatively the knee support pads and may comprise separate elements coupled to the mat via adhesive fasteners or the like.

The mat may include three molded in threaded inserts or nuts A shown in . Bolts B extend through a wall A of the battery compartment see and engage the nuts A so as to secure the mat to the battery compartment wall A.

The mat has a front side which is visible to an operator and a back side see which is positioned adjacent to the battery compartment wall A. A channel A is formed in the back side of the mat for receiving a wiring harness not shown coupled to the control handle structure . The back side of the mat is also provided with first and second recesses and corresponding respectively to the first and second support pads and .

The first knee support pad comprises a first main body having a first base section and a plurality of first elements or ribs . A plurality of recesses are spaced apart in an X direction extend lengthwise in a Y direction and are provided between the first ribs see . The width Wof each rib in the X direction when measured from adjacent edges of adjacent recesses may be from about 10 mm to about 15 mm see . The depth Dof each recess may be from about 1 mm to about 3 mm see . The width Wof each recess may be from about 3 mm to about 5 mm see . Because the width Wof each rib is substantially large relative to the depth Dof each recess the ribs are substantially non flexible in the X direction but are capable of flexing inwardly with the remaining portion of the main body when the main body receives a sufficient force from an operator s knee to cause the main body to flex inward toward the battery compartment wall A. The first recess is provided behind the first main body .

The second knee support pad comprises a second main body having a second base section and a plurality of second elements or ribs . A plurality of recesses are spaced apart in an X direction extend lengthwise in a Y direction and are provided between the second ribs see . The width Wof each rib in the X direction when measured from adjacent edges of adjacent recesses may be from about 10 mm to about 15 mm see . The depth Dof each recess may be from about 1 mm to about 3 mm see . The width Wof each recess may be from about 3 mm to about 5 mm see . Because the width Wof each rib is substantially large relative to the depth Dof each recess the ribs are substantially non flexible in the X direction but are capable of flexing inwardly with the remaining portion of the main body when the main body receives a sufficient force from an operator s knee to cause the main body to flex inward toward the battery compartment wall A. The second recess is provided behind the second main body .

It is noted that the recesses function to reduce the likelihood that an operator s knees will slip off the support pads .

As will be apparent to one skilled in the art other shapes and dimensions may be used for the first and second recesses and the first and second elements .

When an operator is driving a vehicle in which the mat is incorporated the operator may rest his her knees against the first and second main bodies and . Due to the configuration of the first and second base sections of the first and second main bodies i.e. due to the recesses provided in the base sections the main bodies function as leaf springs to absorb and attenuate forces applied by the operator s knees against the first and second main bodies and . This spring like mechanism inherent in the configuration or shape of the first and second base sections provides a mechanism for absorbing and attenuating forces delivered to the first and second main bodies by the operator s knees.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that various other changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and modifications that are within the scope of this invention.

