---

title: Conversion of over-the-counter swaps to standardized forward swaps
abstract: Systems, processes and methods are described for converting over-the-counter derivative products such as interest rate swaps (IRSs) to standardized forward swaps, such as centrally cleared interest rate swaps. The value of each leg of the over-the counter swap may be determined and compared to a value of a corresponding leg of the forward swap. A mark-to-market value may be determined as the difference between the values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08117110&OS=08117110&RS=08117110
owner: Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.
number: 08117110
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071227
---
This patent is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 950 117 filed on Dec. 4 2007 titled FACTORIZATION OF INTEREST RATE SWAP VARIATION the content of which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference for all purposes.

This patent generally relates to systems and processes for the administration of financial instruments and more specifically to conversion of over the counter swap positions to centrally cleared swap positions.

Over the counter OTC financial products include financial instruments and investment vehicles that are bought sold traded exchanged and or swapped between counterparties. After an exchange of an OTC financial product the parties may expend resources managing the product for the duration of its life. Management may be complicated based on the number of exchanges and or the specific terms of the contract.

Interest rate swaps IRS are examples of financial products that are traditionally exchanged traded or otherwise bought and sold in an OTC market. The IRS is a financial product or investment vehicle where the parties agree to exchange streams of future interest payments based on a specified principal or notional amount. Each stream is typically referred to as a leg.

An example of an IRS is a plain fixed to floating or vanilla interest rate swap. The vanilla swap includes an exchange of two streams of payments where one stream is based on a floating or variable interest rate and the other is based on a fixed interest rate. The variable interest rate may be linked to a periodically known or agreed upon rate for the term of the swap such as the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR . The variable rate may be based on other agreed upon factors such as a reference rate the total return of a swap an economic statistic etc. Other examples of swaps include total return swaps and Equity Swaps.

The expiration or maturity of the streams of payments may occur well into the future. A book of existing and new IRS may include multiple IRS having a variety of maturity dates. In the OTC market the parties to an IRS such as banks and intermediaries each bear the risk and expense of carrying the IRS over the lifetime of the swap. Typically a party may reverse the IRS only by renegotiating the IRS with the counterparty. Older IRS s that may be on the books may be obsolete and add noise to a party s balance sheet.

Systems and methods for converting open positions for over the counter swaps to standardized forward interest rate swaps IRS such as centrally cleared swaps are disclosed. The disclosed systems and processes are not limited to open positions derived or resulting from IRS transactions or any particular over the counter financial instruments. Instead the systems and processes may be generally applied to any negotiable financial instruments and investment vehicles. In one exemplary embodiment innovations for converting IRS positions to centrally cleared IRS products are disclosed.

In one embodiment a method of converting an over the counter swap associated with a fixed rate and a floating rate to a forward swap is disclosed. The method includes determining a spot rate estimate between a spot rate associated with an over the counter swap and a spot rate associated with a forward swap determining a spot payout based on the spot rate estimate and a notional amount calculating a market value associated with the over the counter swap payments calculating a market value based on the spot rate estimate calculating a market value based on a fixed rate and determining a cash flow difference between the market value based on the spot rate estimate and the market value based on a fixed rate.

In another embodiment a method of converting an over the counter swap having a fixed rate leg and a floating rate leg to a forward swap is disclosed. The method includes a determining a notional value of a coupon to be received on an agreed upon start date for an over the counter swap and discounting the notional value of the coupon to a spot date b determining a cash flow as a difference between the fixed rate leg and the floating rate leg applied from a last coupon date to the next spot coupon agreed upon date c calculating a market value of the fixed leg for payments d calculating the market value of a desired forward fixed or floating leg discounted back to today. The method further includes calculating a mark to market for converting this over the counter spot swap to an equivalent a forward swap according to the market value of the coupon determined in a the market value of the remaining coupons on the fixed leg in c and the market value of the desired floating leg d .

The details of these and other embodiments of the present invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other embodiments are disclosed and each of the embodiments can be used alone or together in combination. Additional features and advantages of the disclosed embodiments are described in and will be apparent from the following description and figures.

An example of a suitable operating environment in which various aspects of the invention may be implemented is shown in . The operating environment is only one example of a suitable operating environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. A computer system may be configured for operation within the operating environment . The computer system may include a processor or processing unit and a memory or memory unit . The memory or memory unit may be configured to store computer executable instructions in accordance with aspects of the invention. The computer executable instructions may in turn be executed by the processor or processing unit . The computer executable instructions may be comprised of modules in accordance with aspects of the invention.

The computer system may be in communication with one or more input output I O devices . The I O devices may be for example a keyboard a mouse voice automation a screen or display a kiosk a handheld computing device display a microphone etc. The computer system may be configured for communication with a network . The network may be a secure virtual private network VPN the Internet a wireless network such as an IEEE 802.11x network an Ethernet compatible network or any other secure or non secure communication configuration or system.

A database which may be a third party database may be configured to contain for example information such as the LIBOR rate or other information useful in determining market values of derivative products. The database may be connected through the network to the computer system . Similarly one or more computing devices such as for example a laptop computer a handheld computing device or any other mobile computing device may be connected through the network to the computer system . In one embodiment a user of a computing device can remotely communicate via the network to computer system which may be located or connected to a clearinghouse or exchange. A user may remotely enter orders for agreements offered by the exchange and indicate a bank account to pay margin requirements and receive cash flows from swaps.

Of course numerous additional servers computers handheld devices personal digital assistants telephones and other devices may also be connected to exchange computer system . Moreover one skilled in the art will appreciate that the topology shown in is merely an example and that the components shown in may be connected by numerous alternative topologies.

The clearinghouse which may store and or control the computing system may act as a third party guarantor of an agreement for a derivative such as an exchange traded or exchange listed derivative between the two parties of the agreement. For example the derivative may be a centrally cleared forward swap. At least one benefit of an exchange traded derivative as opposed to the OTC type is that the derivative is cleared and guaranteed by the clearinghouse. This may promise more interesting capital efficiencies for institutions that may cross margin one derivative against another derivative.

In an embodiment one or more existing swaps may be converted to a standardized forward swap. A clearing process may be initiated to determine positions with converted swaps and to process the cash flows resulting from the conversion. The clearing process may be initiated by for example the processing unit operating within the computer system . Following the initial cash flow processing the positions associated with converted swaps will be maintained and guaranteed by a central clearing party. As the IRS positions for all parties may be standardized the floating rate reset and payment processing may be simpler and easier to manage because there is only one floating rate reset and cash flow calendar per currency. The International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA day count conventions affect of holidays and other cash flow and reset related parameters may also be pre selected.

Customers with OTC spot swaps can choose to convert their OTC spot swaps to a centralized or standardized forward swaps such as those offered Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. CME . Conversion from the OTC swap to a centralized or standardized forward swap may provide a number of benefits such as but limited to favorable asset treatment netting hedging margining credits and better Basis Point Value BPV Duration the value of a 1 basis point change in yield and duration matching to their balance sheets. Different methods may be utilized CME offers two methods for converting OTC spots swaps to forward swaps.

Table 1 provides a description and definition of the factors and variables related to the accrued interest method illustrated in . In particular these factors and variables are utilized as a part of computations and steps of the accrued interest method . The computations utilized to convert the OTC swap to a standardized forward swap include three difficulties that may need addressing 1 if the OTC swap coupon dates are non International Monetary Market IMM dates 2 if the OTC swap payment frequency is not the same as that of the standardized swaps and 3 If the spot rate r 1 3 in the Table 1 above and illustrated in for the OTC swap is not agreed upon or not determined by the counterparties.

For the sake of initially illustrating and discussing the method it will be assumed that a all OTC swap coupon dates are IMM dates and b all OTC swap payment frequencies are the same as that of the standardized swaps. Returning to the example illustrated in it may be assumed that the parties to the OTC swap have agreed or defined the floating rate. Thus the rate then r 1 3 is known then the payout may be calculated as follows 

Where the SVF is the sum of the day count adjusted discount factors of the swap yield curve to a desired maturity. Additional details related to the SVF are discussed and described in the incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 950 117 filed on Dec. 4 2007 and titled FACTORIZATION OF INTEREST RATE SWAP VARIATION .

There may be occasions where the rate may not be known or determined. For example the parties may not agree to a rate. The rate may be estimated or calculated by i determining the spot rate read from LIBOR EURIBOR fixings on the spot date 0 in FIG. corresponding to zero 0 to three 3 month rate r 0 3 illustrated in ii Determining the spot rate read from LIBOR EURIBOR fixings on the last coupon date 1 in diagram above corresponding to the rate r 1 0 illustrated in iii The rates determined in i and ii may be combined to imply a more up to date rate from period identified between 1 to 3 in utilizing the formula 

The formula may be utilized to determine or estimate the rate r 1 3 based on the known interest rates at r 1 and r 0 3 . Thus the rate r 1 3 may be implied to determine the forward interest rate.

Once this payout is made the mark to market MTM on the remaining part of the OTC swap with the standardized swap may be determined. Basically at this point the method involves marking to market the series of expected forward rates of the OTC swap to the series of expected forward rates of the standardized swap. The marking to market process of the method may be determined as 

At block the exemplary method may be initiated by determining the notional cash value of the coupon to be received on the IMM start date e.g. Jun. 20 2007 and discounting that amount back to the spot date. As previously discussed and shown above the cash flow may be determined as the difference between the OTC spot swap fixed rate and the floating rate applied from the last coupon date e.g. Mar. 21 2007 to the next spot coupon IMM date e.g. Jun. 20 2007 . If the floating rate is agreed upon by the parties then the cash flow can be easily determined and discounted. If not then floating rate from last coupon date to IMM start date may be implied.

At block the market value of the fixed leg for payments made on Sep. 19 2007 and Dec. 19 2007 per the agreed upon fixed rate discounted back to the spot date e.g. Apr. 1 2007 may be calculated.

At block the market value of the desired standardized fixed or floating leg covering the forward rates from Jun. 20 2007 to Sep. 19 2007 and from Sep. 19 2007 to Dec. 19 2007 discounted back to today may be calculated.

At block the market value of the coupon step may be combined with the market value of the remaining coupons on the fixed leg step and the total of these two market values may be subtracted from the market value of the desired floating leg Standardized Forward Swap floating leg step . The resulting product of this combination represent the Mark to Market MTM necessary for converting this OTC spot swap to an equivalent standardized forward swap.

At block the MTM product may be evaluated. If the total MTM is positive the OTC fixed leg has a greater market value than the fixed leg of the desired standardized forward swap plus the additional OTC spot accrued floating coupon and then at block the floating leg holder must pay the fixed leg holder that amount to induce them to convert. However if the total MTM is negative the OTC fixed leg has a lower market value than the fixed leg of the desired Standardized Forward Swap plus the additional OTC spot accrued floating coupon and then at block the fixed leg holder must pay the floating leg holder that amount to induce them to convert.

The forward conversion method builds on the accrued interest method disclosed and discussed above. The forward conversion method converts an OTC swap with a certain maturity to a standardized swap with a different maturity than that of the OTC swap.

Initially the forward conversion method determines the payout of the spot coupon per the accrued interest method discussed above. The forward conversion method is generally an attempt to quantify the increased risk in the first MTM collection made. After the risk is quantified the MTM process adjusts the fixed rate from yesterday to today s settlement rate for the same maturity standardized swap. To quantify the risk 1 a reasonable approximation to the closest most comparable instrument may be made and the approximation may be collected through the MTM process or 2 the duration and convexity costs may be directly calculated and then added to the coupon that was determined for the parties.

The accrued interest method suggests that all the forward rates for the OTC and standardized swap are aligned with each other including the last forward rate of the original OTC swap matches the last forward rate of the standardized swap. This is a simplifying assumption that can be broken and the MTM differences be calculated using the methods shown below. The matching relationship is not necessarily the case when the parties attempt to trade or convert their original OTC swaps for a new longer maturity standardized swap.

In one embodiment the remaining portion of the OTC swap may be evaluated after the payout is determined. Returning to the example shown in after the payout the fixed leg of OTC swap looks as follows 

If for example it was desirable to covert the OTC swap maturing in period 9 to a standardized swap maturing in period 12. Thus the fixed leg of the Standardized swap looks like 

Thus the OTC swap leg covers the floating rate series up to period 9 whereas the standardized swap covers the floating rate series up to period 12 i.e. up to period 9 plus the floating rate from period 9 to 12 as illustrated by the following note all the discount factors below are LIBOR EURIBOR discount factors not standardized swap discount factors as used above 

Thus to get a comparable OTC swap to the standardized swap an extra coupon is added to the OTC swap to construct a theoretical equivalent of the standardized swap. The floating rate from period 9 to 12 fmay be read from the LIBOR EURIBOR fixing curve read on day where fthe implied forward is

In another embodiment the payout of the remaining expected series by valuing the market value of the remaining OTC Fixed Leg may be approximated as follows 

One way to quantify the convexity and duration risk associated with switching from an OTC swap to a standardized swap is two track the duration and convexity of the swap. The duration and convexity of the fixed leg of the standardized swap may be computed using the following Taylor series approximation of the change in market value 

Non IMM dated swaps can also be converted via the above methods. For example a non IMM dated swap with the payment frequency the same as the standardized swaps payment frequencies can be converted by shifting the OTC swap coupon payments present value to the present value of the coupon payments had they occurred on an IMM date. One way of doing this is as follows 

Where dp is the market value differential due to duration and convexity bias of the OTC fixed leg to the CME fixed leg. 2

Non aligned coupon dated swaps can also be converted via the above methods. A non aligned coupon dated swap can be performed similar to the non IMM dated case. One way is to first strip out the first coupon and pay it out. The dp may be calculated in relation to the fixed leg and added to the market value of the remaining expected series. Finally the resulting product may in turn be added to the first coupon payout and subtract the net from the market value of the desired standardized swap floating leg. An example of this is shown below 

Where dp is the market value differential due to duration and convexity bias of the OTC fixed leg to the CME fixed leg.

The standardized swap curve can be overridden in favor of any other swap curve. The adjustments necessary would simply involve recalculating the Swap Value Factor using the rates from the new curve. The swap value factor is the sum of the discount factors implied from the swap curve so in case of using a new curve the new SVF is 

Clients can have several methods of implying a more accurate swap curve with more accurate rates that imply interest rate liquidity and basis risks better . Several of these methods are itemized below however clients may have different proprietary algorithms of deriving those swap yield curves. As mentioned above regardless of the method if clients agree to use their own swap curves all the methods shown above hold true. The difference is that a new SVF needs to be calculated as shown in the equation above. This new SVF would have to use the discount factors calculated from the rates which the clients send us from their swap yield curve.

The common methods clients may use to build their swap yield curves are Term structure methods such as Hull White Vasicek Black Derman Toy BDT etc. These methods are divided into 

Short rate models which attempt to predict what the continuously compounding short rate the rate over an infinitesimally small period of time starting from today and maturing at an infinitesimally small period of time from today . The models rely on attempting to calibrate to the real market price of risk based on today s spot yield curve and then accounting for one or several factors hence the models are considered one two or three factor models depending on how many factors are used. The factors can be a short interest rates b stochastic volatility c stochastic means and d stochastic mean reversion parameters. In addition instead of simply assuming that the short rates move according to a stochastic process certain models such as BDT assume that there are only two possible realizations of the short rates either up increasing or down decreasing . These models build a binomial tree of all the possible interest rates a.k.a. a lattice and then will uses those rates to imply the term structure. Other models can build trinomial trees of the short rates up down or flat no change .

Forward rate models which instead of assuming that the short rates move according to a stochastic process these models assume that the forward rates will move according to a stochastic process. An example of such a model is Heath Jarrow Morton model HJM .

Principal Component Analysis which instead of modeling the short forward rates these models look at the level slope and curvature of the yield curve and attempt to imply the best possible combination to provide the most accurate rates.

The present invention has been described herein with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that a person understanding this invention may conceive of changes or other embodiments or variations which utilize the principles of this invention without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

