---

title: Text enhancement mechanism
abstract: Media enhancing services for pages containing text is described. Text is analyzed to determine related additional media available on the network, and the page description is augmented with metadata to identify the additional media in an enhanced page description. When the enhanced page is rendered, the metadata facilitates incorporation of additional media in the displayed page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07899808&OS=07899808&RS=07899808
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 07899808
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071026
---
The present disclosure relates generally to creation provision and consumption of multimedia content over interactive networks.

Users communicating over a network typically use a physical device such as a telephone a text messenger a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA a networked audio video player a personal computer or a public terminal to interconnect and share information with other users on the network. These networked devices provide an increased ability to compose and consume information and to interact socially through the sharing of information. A user device on a network is sometimes referred to as a host. This disclosure relates generally to an improved mechanism for composing sharing disseminating and consuming various types of information among interconnected users.

The shared information is perceived by a consuming user consumer . The consumer perceives information conveyed through various forms of media objects including text voice audio recordings pictures or videos. Descriptions of one or more forms of media objects may be combined in a data object which the consumer accesses over the network. The data object may contain additional metadata information which is not typically observed by the consumer but may instead define parameters useful in conveying information to the consumer such as user identifiers data locaters data types or data interpretation resources as described below. Metadata may combine one of more specialized categories of metadata such as a meta identifier a meta keyword and so on.

The consumer experiences a virtual reality stimulated by a plethora of multimedia information. As opposed to the real world where social interactions often depend on physical characteristics of the communicator in a virtual social network the composing user composer is limited only by his ability to stimulate others through the sharing of information. Composers on networks are currently able to perform social functions which are analogous to their real world counter parts such as to compose mail to write diaries or to publish original works or compositions of other works all in electronic form over the network.

Modern computer networks are typically hierarchical transmission networks with multiple layers of transmission protocols. A transmission network is a system that allows two or more transceivers to exchange data whereas a transmission protocol is a sequence of standard interactive steps that facilitate the exchange. Typically the lowest level protocols are more concretely tied to the interaction of physical circuitry whereas higher levels of protocols are more abstract to facilitate higher level processing at an algorithmic level. For example in the vernacular the web also known as the internet has become shorthand for a multi layer computer communications system which combines higher level protocols for access mid level protocols such as a means of locating resources available on the network using a system of uniform resource locaters URLs and low level hardware transmission control protocol internet protocols TCP IP which control the exchange of large uneven blocks of data by breaking them into smaller standardized packets. Generally the various levels of communication protocols are seamless to the user who seeks improved means to gather information compose new information and share that information with other users without the burden of managing lower level protocols or learning new programming languages.

In the context of a computer network a server is physically one or more computer systems connected to the network containing a set of one or more central processing units CPUs and support circuitry operative to execute a sequence of one or more processor instructions to process data. A sequence of one or more processor instructions for a particular purpose or application is known as an application program. Physical circuitry in a server typically includes one or more CPUs a plurality of interfaces for inputting application programs and data a plurality of memories for storing programs and data a plurality of interfaces for outputting programs and data and a plurality of transceivers for exchanging data and commands with other servers. Data may be organized in storage to facilitate efficient processing such as by storing the data in a database consisting of a collection of data indexed by relationships between the various forms of data contained therein. A virtual server consists of a set of one or more servers interconnected hierarchically to perform high level functions as combined functions of several servers under central control.

Functionally a server executes a sequence of low level CPU commands to complete instructions for processing data. A server typically accepts instructions and executes commands for a multitude of remote clients . The instructions may include but are not limited to instructions to store or retrieve data to modify verify or erase data or to reorganize data. The server may also initiate instructions for other network attached devices. For example a virtual music server might maintain a database to locate a library of musical compositions. The music server might receive commands to store new songs or retrieve old ones from a number of clients. Further the music server might send commands to other devices on the network e.g. to disseminate the musical database among various subservient sewers such as a jazz server a hip hop server a classical server and so on to register paying user requests in a billing server to verify the identity preferences and access privileges of a user in a registration server and so on. The music server may therefore also be a client of other servers. Practitioners of the art will recognize that servers and clients are abstract interactive devices controlled by software instructions whose interaction protocols may be flexibly defined. A client as used herein may include functionally to process information and programs as well as to issue commands. Similarly a server as used herein may include functionally to initiate commands to user device s and other servers as well as to respond to instructions.

Similarly a database should not be construed to be a single physical collection of data. As used herein a database is an abstract collection of data. Said data may be stored physically within a single or multiple servers within attached physical device s network attached device s or user devices s . Similarly an application program should not be construed to be a single physical collection of commands. As used herein an application program is an abstract collection of computer readable commands which may be physically executed in whole or in part within a single or multiple servers within attached physical devices s within network attached device s or within user device s .

A network user utilizes a number of application programs to create or consume content on the network. Example application programs include a browser an e mail client a blog client and a media player. 

A browser is an application program that is generally intended to display multimedia content. The browser typically displays multimedia content in a virtual book format typically displayed as one or more individually framed web pages along with means for navigating to other related web pages. A web page is typically a two dimensional image appearing as an individual page of information including one or more types of associated media. A web page may also be associated with consumer perceived audio and or video output. Data for web pages is often described in a format known as a Document Object Model DOM .

The multimedia content may be directly perceived on the web page or may be indirectly accessible. Content on the page may be directly perceived by including displayed images videos or a media player rendered within the image of the page. Examples of indirect access include access to audio recording media through background music access through an auxiliary page or pop up window access through an auxiliary program such as Microsoft s Windows Media Player access through an auxiliary remotely interconnected device such as a networked display or access provided through a link to another page. Many web pages incorporate one or more hot links. The hot link enables a consumer to access another web page or another application by pointing to and clicking on the hot link using a pointing device such as a mouse. Consumers typically have the ability to reject the web page or additional media offering s through controls in the browser user interface such as by clicking on a close box using the mouse.

A network user may also become a composer to create new web pages. Web pages may be created by any number of individuals groups businesses or automated processes. Web pages are typically stored as a document using a common programming language such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML . The composer may compose the web page directly by creating a description in the common programming language or may compose the web page indirectly using an application program to combine text descriptions and other media into a page description in HTML or another suitable language. A composer may further combine one or more web pages to create a website. A website may be self contained in that it consists solely of web pages created for that site and a means for navigating among the contained web pages. More commonly a website contains a combination of composer generated content as well as links to other content or applications on the web. Typically the composer may review a new web page or website composition on his computer using his browser. The composer may also disseminate the new web page or website to other users on the network by publishing his page description s on a web server where a web server is a server connected to the communications network that will provide published web pages in response to requests from authorized users on the network.

To use the web server to publish a page the composer typically registers with a service provider such as Yahoo Geocities . Composers who wish to enhance a web page with media content other than text typically complete a cumbersome process of locating and incorporating the content. When the web page s are published the composer and service provider may be exposed to legal liability for incorporating copyrighted or inappropriate content. Although the composer or service provider could potentially license the incorporated content transaction costs may be too high for individual composers.

In addition the composing user may not have the same access privileges as a consuming user. For example the composer may have a subscription service to an internet service provider which licenses the downloading of music files. A consumer on the network accessing the composition may not have the same subscription based privileges. The composer seeks to provide additional media content for any consumer without the burden of determining consumer access privileges.

A popular form of web page for individual users is an online diary known as a web log or blog. The blog composer is also known as a blogger. The blogger typically provides textual descriptions of personal experiences and or other types of publishable information and shares them with other network users of the network in a sequence of blog pages. Although the blogger desires to enhance blog pages with related media content to create a multimedia experience for the blog consumer he faces similar difficulties to those encountered by other web page composers. As a result bloggers typically use the services of a standardized blog composition and display service provider such as Yahoo 360 Blog . Standardized blog composition services give composers limited control over their compositions. These limitations may include limited access to embeddable media limited varieties of page composition and limited access to embeddable media players. Composers generally are limited to locating related media content on their own. In addition blog displays on a service provider are typically limited to one scrollable page per user are accessible only to other users of the service provider and the service provider controls the overall composition of the website.

An e mail client typically has the option of accessing electronic mail through a specialized e mail client application or a general purpose web browser application. Either application allows a user to compose mail messages as well as to consume messages. E mail messages typically consist of text and optionally include one or more instances of user attached media objects. The e mail messages are typically stored in data objects including text and optionally HTML. To use e mail the network user typically registers with an e mail service provider such as Yahoo Mail . The service provider typically maintains a virtual e mail server for its various service customers use with e mail client software. The e mail server provides a facility for e mail clients to authenticate themselves and interact with the appropriate subservient server. Users who wish to enhance their e mails with media objects other than text typically complete a cumbersome process of locating attaching and uploading the additional content for the enhanced e mail.

A text enhancement mechanism for users of computer networks is described. A network composer accesses the services of an enhancement service provider to obtain embed code that can be used to enhance one or more pages of text entries with media objects. The service provider provides an additional enhancement mechanism for the text pages. When the composer supplies a page description with text the enhancement mechanism modifies the page description to produce an enhanced page description with computer code contained as metadata in the description of the enhanced page. When consumers access an enhanced page the embed code facilitates one or more of 1 relating one or more text entries of the page to corresponding media to be contained on the page 2 providing an appropriate representation for the consumer to perceive each corresponding media 3 augmenting the text page to produce an enhanced page displaying the appropriate representation of other media in the page and 4 combining the enhanced pages in an enhanced multimedia experience for the consumer such as an enhanced website an enhanced blog or enhanced e mail communications.

The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction with systems apparatuses and methods which are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. In various embodiments one or more of the above described problems have been reduced or eliminated.

The following description sets forth numerous details to provide a thorough understanding of various aspects of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances algorithms for processing data and symbolic representations of algorithmic operations are the terms used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm as used herein is a sequence of operations leading to a desired result said operations requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of a sequence of electrical signals representing binary numbers which can be stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated.

The present invention also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise one or more general purpose computers selectively activated by one or more computer programs to achieve the required results. Such a computer program may be stored in any suitable machine readable storage medium. A machine readable storage medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form that is usable by a machine such as a general purpose computer.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used in accordance with the teachings herein and it may prove expedient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the algorithm operations. The required structure for a variety of these systems may appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

Server systems described herein can be implemented by a variety of computer systems and architectures. illustrates suitable components in an exemplary embodiment of a general purpose computer system. The exemplary embodiment is only one example of suitable components and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the configuration of components be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of a computer system. The invention may be operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computer system environments or configurations.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and so forth which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention may include a general purpose computer system . Computer system accesses one or more applications and peripheral drivers directed to a number of functions described herein. Components of the computer system may include but are not limited to a CPU or central processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . As used by those skilled in the art a signal bus refers to a plurality of digital signal lines serving a common function. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus PCI Express bus PCI X and Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus.

An operating system manages the operation of computer system including the input and output of data to and from applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the applications being executed on the system and the components of the system. According to one embodiment of the present invention the operating system is a Windows 95 98 NT XP Vista operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. However the present invention may be used with other suitable operating systems such as an QS X operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. a UNIX operating system or a LINUX operating system.

The computer system may include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer system and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media. For example computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile computer storage media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk ROM CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape cassettes magnetic tape hard magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices floppy disk storage devices magnetic diskettes or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by the computer system .

Communication media may also embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For instance communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared cellular networks and other wireless media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer system such as during start up is typically stored in ROM and other non volatile storage such as flash memory. Additionally system memory may contain some or all of the operating system the application programs other executable code and program data . Memory typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by CPU . Optionally a CPU may contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses.

The computer system may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a bulk storage device that reads from or writes to one or more hard drives of non removable nonvolatile magnetic media and storage device that may be an optical disk drive or a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable a nonvolatile storage medium such as an optical disk or magnetic disk. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary computer system include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. Bulk storage device and the storage device may be connected directly to the system bus or alternatively may be connected through an interface such as storage controller . Storage devices may interface to computer system through a general computer bus such as or may interconnect with a storage controller over a storage optimized bus such as the Small Computer System Interface SCSI bus the ANSI ATA ATAPI bus the Ultra ATA bus the FireWire IEEE 1394 bus or the Serial ATA SATA bus.

The storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions executable code data structures program modules and other data for the computer system . In for example bulk storage is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other executable code and program data . As mentioned previously data and computer instructions in may be transferred to system memory to facilitate immediate CPU access from processor . Alternatively processor may access stored instructions and data by interacting directly with bulk storage . Furthermore bulk storage may be alternatively provided by a network attached storage device not shown which is accessed through a network interface .

A user may enter commands and information into the computer system through the network interface or through an input device such as a keyboard a pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse a trackball a touch pad tablet a controller an electronic digitizer a microphone an audio input interface or a video input interface. Other input devices may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner and so forth. These and other input devices are often connected to CPU through an input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A display or other type of video device may also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a graphics controller and a video interface . In addition an output device such as headphones speakers or a printer may be connected to the system bus through an output interface or the like.

The computer system may operate in a networked environment using a network to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a terminal a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer system . The network depicted in may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or other type of network. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. In a networked environment executable code and application programs may be stored in the remote computer. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote executable code as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer systems including but not limited to general purpose computer systems based on a member of the x86 family of CPU s manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible CPUs manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor. Of course other implementations are possible. For example the server functionalities described herein may be implemented by a plurality of server sub systems communicating over a backplane.

Various components of computer system may be rearranged deleted or augmented. For example system bus may be implemented as a plurality of busses interconnecting various subsystems of the computer system. Furthermore computer system may contain additional signal busses or interconnections between existing components such as by adding a direct memory access unit not shown to allow one or more components to more efficiently access system memory .

As shown CACHE and CPU are packed together as processor module with processor CPU referred to as the processor core. Alternatively cache memories contained in may be separate components on the system bus . Furthermore certain embodiments of the present invention may not require nor include all of the above components. For example some embodiments may include a smaller number of CPUs a smaller number of network ports a smaller number of storage devices or a smaller number of input output interfaces. Furthermore computer system may include additional components such as one or more additional central processing units such as storage devices memories or interfaces. As discussed below in one implementation operations of one or more of the physical servers described herein is implemented as a series of software routines executed by computer system . Each of the software routines comprises a plurality or series of machine instructions to be executed by one or more components in the computer system such as CPU . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as bulk storage . However the series of instructions may be stored in an EEPROM a flash device or a DVD. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote computer or a server on a network via network interface .

The registration process authenticates returning users by scanning input to an online login form to determine if the login ID resides in the user database in step . The user may use the registration process as a named known user or as a guest user. Once a user has been properly identified user preferences are retrieved from storage in step . Users opting for anonymous use of the process are assigned a default guest profile. The user preferences may relate to one or more parameters or attributes of the operation of the enhancement mechanism. For example the user preferences may include parameters that bias or control selection of photographic media objects over video audio media objects. In step registration server retrieves and in some instances dynamically generates a set of appropriate embed and enhancing codes and transmits the codes to a user device in step . The output of the service registration process is operative to provide a text enhancement mechanism where the user may insert the embed code in underlying content such as an HTML page. For dynamically generated code the server may dynamically add a meta user identifier to the code as well as one or more user preferences. These meta parameters can be used to bias the selection of media as described below to allow for composer personalization.

The enhancing code is operative to facilitate the enhancement mechanism for composer applications. The composition enhancement mechanism consists of inserting one or more embed code sections in association with text content contained in data objects such as HTML pages. In one implementation the output of the registration process is limited to a set of embed code sections which the user can copy and paste into text documents. In an alternate implementation an enhancing software code module may assist the user in using embed code sections during composition of data objects. The enhancing software code module may be provided in various forms as described below. The enhancing code is operative to facilitate the composition enhancement mechanism by assisting the user in inserting embed code in the data object by providing additional functionality to a composer application.

Embed code may take many forms. For example the embed code may be high level computer language source code such as HTML code or low level computing machine instructions. Embed code may also include or link to one or more scripts such as JavaScript expressing functions that are included from HTML code. One or more sections of the embed code may contain a script or calls to retrieve a script that dynamically generates one or more aspects of the enhanced page or other content provided when the embed code is executed. The dynamic generation of the enhanced page may even be automatically achieved without any explicit intervention required of the composer to apply the enhancement. This could be achieved for example by programmatically examining the composition for content references which qualify for enhancement and applying the enhancements dynamically at the time of consumption.

When a consumer accesses an enhanced page script functions can interact with the Document Object Model DOM of the page to perform one or more tasks. Scripts may also be used to make service requests to remote servers after an HTML page has loaded. These requests can obtain new information or data as well as load or launch additional applications e.g. media players content viewers etc. application plug ins or software codes. Script code can merge with the DOM of the underlying page so that one or more additional media objects are displayed or otherwise rendered on the page. Alternatively the script code may initiate one or more additional pages or other rendering for the additional media object s . When embed code is inserted into an HTML document and subsequently accessed by a client application the client application may retrieve and execute the script. The script optionally using the parameter values in the embed code may initiate service requests to one or more remote servers to retrieve and render one or more media objects that enhance the underlying content of the page. For example the script when executed may cause the client application to query media server to retrieve one or more media objects and then cause a client application to render the retrieved media object s .

In addition the script may access the DOM of the underlying HTML page to extract and process information. For example as illustrates the script may process the data of the underlying HTML page to extract the text of the page and provide it to media server . The script could also perform additional operations. For example the script could process the data of the HTML page filtering out extraneous information such as the a and and the like and transmit only the relevant media selection information when querying for media objects for page enhancement. In addition the script may access the DOM to identify the server identified in one possible implementation by uniform resource locater that hosts the underlying HTML page.

Another way to detect underlying or theme information of a data object is to read the metadata in the data object in an automated way. In an alternative implementation the script may extract one or more meta parameters that may be useful for example to select one or more media objects. For example a photographic media object may include additional information about the photograph in one or more meta tags in the metadata. An example meta tag includes . A mechanism for automatically retrieving information in the data object is known as a page scraping mechanism. The page scraping mechanism retrieves text in metadata as well as user composed text. However the page scraping mechanism may also employ non textual methods for retrieving information about the page by digitally processing and recognizing and recognizing the intrinsic properties of media objects included in the page. For example the image on the page may include no meta tags but by processing the image it could be determined that the image features a camera phone. Retrieved text or media is used to determine a page theme using technology for determining semantic meaning. Metadata as provided by the user or a media object supplier would be valuable to understand the theme of the data object. Using this information and the text content of the page a semantic engine may select one or more relevant topics from a dictionary and may select one or more relevant media objects to enhance the page.

In addition the enhancement mechanisms disclosed may employ a categorization tool to characterize data object text or metadata. Categories can be associated with one or more keywords. For example a meta tag containing photography and text describing the Grand Canyon may be characterized as a category of photographs that came from Arizona and may be associated with a keyword entitled ArizonaPics. 

In addition the enhancement mechanisms disclosed may employ mechanisms for consumer personalization. When a network information consumer accesses a data object using a browser for example script code may access consumer identifiers in a consumer cookie or some other consumer data file. The cookie or data file is a data object containing one or more meta parameters specific to the consumer. By accessing the consumer s meta parameters an embed code may optionally include instructions to bias the selection of media to include consumer preferences and or consumer access privileges in a service request.

After registration embed code can be provided to the user as displayed text as a displayed HTML page in a text or other data file. After the user has been provided displayed embed code the user may save the embed code in a text or other data file or load the embed code in a buffer with a copy operation such as by highlighting the text and entering Ctrl C to copy the highlighted text in a buffer in the Windows operating environment. The user may insert the embed code into one or more data objects such as HTML pages in a variety of circumstances. For example when configuring a blog post a user may paste the embed code into the HTML code of the blog page. Blog posting and other network application interfaces typically include an edit HTML tab that allows a user to directly edit the HTML code of the blog post. The embed code may be incorporated into a variety of data objects. Indeed a blog post represents one of many possible forms of social media in connection with which the content embedding code can be used. For example the embed code may be incorporated into personal pages on social networking sites such as MySpace.com Facebook Yahoo 360 and the like. The embed code may also be used in other contexts. For example the embed code may be entered into a thread on a public forum site. Still further a webmaster or other user may include the content embedding code into one or more pages of a web site such as a commercial news site e.g. cnn.com zdnet.com etc. .

The additional media content is rendered by execution of software on a user device . User device executes embed code in the context of a user application such as a web browser. The service provider operates a virtual media server which maintains a database of media object descriptor files a database to reference relationships between media objects using media describing keywords and a database for media object preferences . The media object descriptor files may include mp3 format descriptions of audio files jpeg format descriptions of photographs mpeg4 format descriptions of videos and one or more additional standardized media object descriptors. Server is operative to transmit one or more additional media objects to the user device in response to one or more embed code service requests. The additional media objects are transmitted in the form of one or more data descriptor files and optionally one or more software code modules for perceiving an additional media object.

For example an additional media object may consist of a digital photograph associated with a textual description. User may perceive a page where the subject or theme of the photograph is described in text and the enhancement mechanism renders an additional media object consisting of a representation of the photograph rendered on the perceived page.

The user may perceive the additional media object in various representations. In one alternative the entire media object is rendered such as by providing an image of an entire photograph on a page on display . In a second alternative a compressed version of the additional media object is rendered on the page. In a third alternative a link to the additional media object is included on the page. In a fourth alternative the additional media object is associated with a media player control interface displayed on the page. For example an additional media object consisting of a photographic object may be displayed by a combination of these and other representations. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art these and various other means of display commonly create a perception of a representation of a photographic media object on a page.

In addition user may optionally be provided with one or more display controls to alter the display of the representation of the media object such as by resizing or rejecting a displayed photograph using one or more user application interface controls. Alternatively user perceives a compressed form of the media object and may optionally alter the representation using application interface controls to reject the compressed version or to view an uncompressed version. User may optionally initiate additional service requests indicated by one or more links or by further interacting with the media object control interface.

As a consequence of these alternative representations and the user application interface controls user may not be able to view an entire additional media object on the page at all times. A particular space on the page may be reserved for a representation of the media object or the media object control interface. When user does not perceive the additional media object the space may be available to display one or more other media objects. For example user may be done viewing an additional media object consisting of a photograph in a certain space on the page and the space dedicated to all or part of the photographic image may be optionally replaced with one or more media objects provided by server .

As a second example a consuming user in may perceive a page where a music video is described in text and the enhancement mechanism renders a representation of an additional media object consisting of the corresponding video. The video data may alternatively be transmitted by the media server as a data file corresponding to the entire video as sequentially transmitted portions of the video data file contained in a data stream as a data file corresponding to a photographic title image of the video or by some other representation. The video representation is rendered as part of a displayed page on display and may consist of a video player with a video control interface contained on the displayed page. The video player is operative to process user input a video data descriptor file a video data stream or a title image to render a representation of the video. In one means of display the entire video is rendered on the page and the client may be provided optional controls which may include a user application interface to pause play rewind fast forward or reject the additional video media object. In a second means of display the photographic title image or an alternative compressed representation of the video is rendered on the page. The user perceives the compressed representation of the video and may optionally view the uncompressed video or reject the compressed representation on the display. In a third means of display a link to the video is rendered on the page and the user may optionally perform a control action to perceive the video. If the user does not perceive the video at all times or the video data stream if any ends the space on the page dedicated to all or part of the video player may be optionally replaced with other media objects provided by server .

In a text scanner function is operative in step to 1 resolve ambiguities in the transmitted page text 2 parse the transmitted page text into a set of one or more likely media identifying phrases 3 associate one or more of the media identifying phrases with one or more media describing keywords and 4 prioritize the associated keywords by ranking each such keyword. Optionally the text input to the text seamier may already contain metadata with one or more predetermined media identifying phrases keywords or rankings. The text scanner function is further operative to forward ranked keywords and a service request to a media tracker function in step . As mentioned previously the text scanner function is a software routine that may be executed in whole or in part by executing instructions in a server system and by executing instructions for the remainder of the software routine if any in a user device.

In the media tracker function in step is operative to determine one or more data objects in a virtual media database to associate with the ranked keywords. The media tracker function may additionally utilize individual user preferences service provider preferences the combined preferences of multiple users and or consumer identifiers to bias the determination of appropriate media. The various preferences may be stored in a media ratings database such as of . Optionally the input to the media tracker function in step may already contain predetermined media identifiers in metadata. The media tracker function is further operative to forward appropriate media identifiers and a service request to a media server such as of . Optionally the media tracker function is operative to update the combined preferences of multiple users as described below.

In the media server is operative to transmit one or more additional media objects in step and if necessary one or more software code modules such as a media player for perceiving that media to the user s device. The user s application in conjunction with the embed code renders an enhanced page on the user s device including a representation of one or more additional media objects in step .

In the embed code optionally incorporates additional functionality to monitor a user reaction to the enhanced media in steps to . The reaction may be an explicit action of the user or it may be an implicit action. For example the associated media to be displayed on an enhanced page may be a sequence of music videos rendered as a playlist in a media player control panel which is displayed on the enhanced page showing the video title image and interface controls for the media player. A user may implicitly rate the media by ignoring the media player altogether or by playing some portion of the videos or the user may explicitly rate the video selection in response to a request initiated by the embed code. Optionally the embed code may be operative to input explicit ratings or to derive implicit ratings based on the reaction of the user to the media player in step . Optionally the embed code is operative in conjunction with the media tracker function and the user application to adaptively adjust the rating preferences of multiple users by transmitting a contributing rating preference in step to the media tracker function. The media tracker function updates combined user rating preferences in step .

As discussed above the operations of inserting embed code in underlying data objects such as HTML pages may be facilitated and or partially automated with the aid of one or more enhancing code modules such as a client side browser toolbar or plug in. The client side application may access embed code stored locally or stored remotely on a server. In

For example a text composing user might compose a page of text in a blog entry describing a concert as follows. The cheerleading squad gathered at Adrian s so we could carpool to the Prince concert. We arrived at Shoreline Amphitheatre at 7 PM but the place was already a madhouse. The warm up was Sheila E and Prince didn t come out on stage until 9 PM. He was great and appeared in a big cloud of purple smoke. The encore was Purple Rain. 

In a text selection enhancement mode the user may indicate a sequence of desired enhancements by effectively performing part of the text scanner and media tracker functions. The user may indicate desired phrases to be enhanced such as 1 by highlighting the phrase cheerleading squad and indicating that a related local picture is desired 2 by selecting the phrases Prince concert Purple Rain encore and indicating a related music video is desired and 3 by selecting the artist Sheila E and indicating any related media object is desired and so on. The user implicitly rates the importance of the various selections or may explicitly indicate their relative importance through indication of user preferences.

In a full page enhancement mode the page enhancement mechanism automatically processes the page text to determine a number of media objects to be inserted on the enhanced page. The text scanner function may identify media identifying phrases such as Prince concert Purple Rain Shoreline Amphitheatre Sheila E carpool cheerleading squad encore and so on and associate each phrase with a keyword. Considering the text page as a whole to be highly related to musical artists and to an artist named Prince in particular the text scanner function may additionally increase the rank of keywords related to musical performers and may additionally increase the rank of keywords associated with the artist Prince. The media tracker function selects media objects related to the ranked keywords. The media tracker s selection may be based on a number of preferences such as one or more most popular objects in a set of global preferences one or more highest paying media objects in a set of service provider preferences or one or more media objects personally preferred by the text composing user.

While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above those of skill in the art will recognize certain modifications permutations additions and sub combinations thereof. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims and claims hereafter introduced are interpreted to include all such modifications permutations additions and sub combinations as are within their true spirit and scope.

