---

title: Audio control system for a vehicle
abstract: An audio control system may receive a plurality of audio input signals. A switch or multiplexer may switch one of the plurality of audio input signals from respective audio sources to a power amplifier. A controller in communication with the multiplexer may control switching of the multiplexer. A display may provide the user with information regarding the switching of the audio signal inputs. A user interface may permit the user to manually switch the audio source. A signal detector in communication with an audio input signal may detect a signal from a priority source. When the signal from the priority source is detected, the controller may direct the multiplexer to route the signal from the priority source to the power amplifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08654995&OS=08654995&RS=08654995
owner: Harman International Industries, Incorporated
number: 08654995
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070419
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 918 508 filed Mar. 16 2007 which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to an audio control system. In particular this disclosure relates to an audio control system for a vehicle.

Users may wish to upgrade factory installed audio systems. Users may replace or upgrade the amplifiers associated with the factory installed radios and CD players rather than replacing an original radio or CD player. Users sometimes attach additional devices or sources to the vehicle s audio system. Such sources may include navigation systems cellular or wireless telephones AM FM radios satellite radios MP3 based players DVD players and other devices.

It may be expensive and difficult to remove and replace existing factory installed equipment. Dashboard modification and or cosmetic changes may be required to accommodate new devices. Replacement devices may not fit in an existing dashboard resulting in less than a perfect appearance. Decorative face plates configured to hide poor fitting devices may not provide a professional or factory installed look. Therefore a need exists for an audio control system that can manage and control multiple audio sources without impacting the appearance of the vehicle s dashboard.

An audio control system may receive a plurality of audio input signals. A switch or multiplexer may switch one of the plurality of audio input signals from respective audio sources to a power amplifier. A controller in communication with the multiplexer may control switching of the multiplexer. A display may provide the user with information regarding the switching of the audio signal inputs. A user interface may permit the user to manually switch the audio source. A signal detector in communication with an audio input signal may detect a signal from a priority source. When the signal from the priority source is detected the controller may direct the multiplexer to route the signal from the priority source to the power amplifier.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

The LCD display may include backlighting and dimming capability. However any suitable display device may be used such as a flat panel display or an electro luminescent display. The display module may have a body formed of molded plastic to present an aesthetically pleasing appearance. The volume control may provide user adjustable volume settings and power on off functions. The input control may provide system set up functions input labeling and input switching functions for each of a plurality of audio signal sources through a command line interface menu driven interface and or graphical user interface.

The display module may communicate with the input module . The input module may be mounted in an enclosed area of the vehicle such as in the trunk kick panel behind the dashboard below a seat etc. The input module may receive analog audio signals from the various source devices . Such source devices may include a navigation system a cellular or wireless telephone an AM FM radio a satellite radio an MP3 based player DVD player and CD player . Other source devices may also be selected by the user.

The input module may control switching of the various source devices through commands from the display module . A wiring harness which may be a unitary multi wire cable having connector hardware may interface the display module with the input module . Because a wiring harness may be used the display module may be mounted near or on the dashboard of the vehicle without diminishing its appearance. The display module may control setting the input voltage levels and gain parameters for the audio control system during installation or through a user selectable calibration process. The process may ensure compatibility between the various source devices and the input module . The input module may further include a volume processor and a control processor . The input module may provide audio output signals to multiple power amplifiers through an output connector block . The power amplifiers may drive a plurality of vehicle loudspeakers .

The display module may communicate with the input module . The input module may be mounted in an enclosed area of the vehicle such as in the trunk kick panel behind the dashboard below a seat etc. The input module may receive analog audio signals from the various source devices . Such source devices may include a navigation system a cellular or wireless telephone an AM FM radio a satellite radio an MP3 based player DVD player and CD player . Other source devices may also be selected by the user.

A buffer amplifier or pre amplifier may receive the input from each of the inputs respectively. Each buffer amplifier may be an operational amplifier. A gain adjustment circuit may receive output from some or all of the respective buffer amplifiers and is thus shown in dashed lines. Note that each of the radio inputs and may be differential inputs. Accordingly the corresponding buffer amplifier for the radio inputs and may be arranged with a differential input. The differential inputs may reduce noise and increase signal quality. Some or all of the inputs and corresponding buffer amplifiers and may be arranged in a differential configuration.

The volume processor may be programmed to control the respective gain adjustment circuits to establish an appropriate input level for each corresponding audio source device . For example the gain adjustment circuit for the navigation input may be programmed to receive a signal in the range of about 100 millivolts to about 16 volts. The gain corresponding to each input may be individually programmed depending on the expected output levels of the various audio source devices .

A right channel multiplexer and a left channel multiplexer may receive the output from each gain adjustment circuit respectively or from the corresponding buffer amplifier and if no gain adjustment circuit is present. The right and left channel multiplexers and may be linear or analog multiplexers. The output of certain buffer amplifiers or gain adjustment circuits may be routed through additional pre conditioning circuitry prior to routing to the multiplexers and . The volume processor may receive a right channel audio output signal from the right channel multiplexer and may receive a left channel audio output signal from the left channel multiplexer . The volume processor may control switching of the multiplexers and through a multiplexer control signal .

Some of the inputs corresponding to the respective audio source devices may be prioritized. For example the navigation input and the telephone input may have a higher priority than the other inputs. If the audio control system detects an audio signal originating from the navigation input the navigation input may receive priority over all of the other inputs. Accordingly if the radio or CD player is operating and a signal from the navigation system becomes active the audio control system may control the right and left channel multiplexers and to immediately switch the navigation system input through the multiplexers and to the volume processor. The navigation input may be assigned a highest priority so that the user will not fail to hear an audio navigation prompt. Thus the navigation input may interrupt or deselect all other inputs regardless of which input is in use at the time.

A navigation signal detection circuit may receive an output from the amplifier or the gain adjustment circuit corresponding to the navigation input to determine if a navigation device signal is present. The navigation signal detection circuit may issue a navigation detection signal to inform the control processor if a navigation signal is present on the navigation input . The user may also select the navigation source manually or through voice command or other telemetric based device linked to the display module .

If a signal on the navigation input caused de selection of another audio signal the navigation detection circuit may also detect when the navigation signal has terminated and may restore the deselected audio signal. The navigation detection circuit may delay restoration of the interrupted signal so as to make a smooth transition during switching. Such a delay may be for example about one to about two seconds.

The wireless telephone input may be assigned to a second highest priority. Accordingly receipt of a cellular or wireless telephone audio signal on the telephone input may deselect all other sources in use except for the navigation source . In this way the radio the CD player or other audio source devices may be deselected when the user receives a telephone call.

A telephone detection circuit may receive a telephone output signal from the respective buffer amplifier or gain adjustment circuit corresponding to the telephone input and determine if a wireless telephone signal is present. The telephone detection circuit may issue a telephone detection signal to inform the control processor that the telephone signal is present on the telephone input . The user may also select the telephone source manually or automatically through voice command or through a telemetric based device linked to the display module .

A short range wireless decoder such as a Bluetooth decoder may couple the telephone input to the multiplexers and to link the telephone . The decoder may include an antenna and wireless transceiver circuit configured to receive short range radio signals. Various wireless telephone devices may be used such as a Bluetooth enabled cellular telephone. Other short range cable free decoders may be in communication with certain unallocated input sources to accommodate high fidelity audio signals. Some of the decoders may be Bluetooth decoders such as an A2DP advanced audio distribution protocol decoder.

A telephone detection circuit may receive a telephone output signal. from the respective buffer amplifier or gain adjustment circuit corresponding to the telephone input and determine if a wireless telephone signal is present. The telephone detection circuit may issue a telephone detection signal to inform the control processor that the telephone signal is present on the telephone input . The user may also select the telephone source manually or automatically through voice command or through a telemetric based device linked to the display module .

Alternatively priority levels between some of the inputs may be reassigned under software control. The user may reprogram the priority levels by selecting the appropriate function using the volume control or input control . Additional signal detection circuits similar to the navigation detection circuit may be provided. Signals provided to and from the additional signal detection circuits may be re routed using transmission gates or mechanical relays such as a reed relay when the priority levels are modified under software control so as to maintain a correspondence with the priority input to which it is associated. Accordingly the user may have complete control over which input source device is selected via the input control located on the display module . Thus the user may chose between the various input sources.

A signal summing circuit may combine the telephone audio output signal and the navigation audio output signal to provide a summed signal. The signal summing circuit may be an operational amplifier arranged in a summing configuration. This may permit the user to hear both audio signals so that the user does not miss the navigation information or a telephone call.

A connector arrangement or jack may couple the control processor to the display module using a minimal number of wires. A standard DIN type connector may be used. A serial communication format may be used to minimize the number of wires.

The control processor may communicate with the volume processor and may also receive the navigation detection signal and the telephone detection signal . The control processor may effect control of the navigation input and the telephone input to interrupt other source devices in a priority mode state. The control processor may also provide a mute control signal to the output buffer amplifiers .

A sub woofer summing circuit may combine or sum the right channel audio output signal and the left channel audio output signal from the volume processor to generate a monaural subwoofer audio signal . The sub woofer summing circuit may be an operational amplifier arranged in a summing configuration.

A sub woofer summing circuit may combine or sum the right channel audio output signal . and the left channel audio output signal from the volume processor to generate a monaural subwoofer audio signal . The sub woofer summing circuit may be an operational amplifier arranged in a summing configuration.

The multiple RCA type connectors may include front speaker connectors rear speaker connectors and a subwoofer connector . Corresponding signals are provided to the RJ45 type connectors which may include front speaker connectors rear speaker connectors and a subwoofer connector . The RCA type connectors and the RJ45 type connectors may be functionally equivalent.

A single harness such as the DIN type cable or connector may connect the display module and the input module . The display module and the input module may communicate using various command and control signals transmitted through the connector . The display module may include a separate microprocessor and a backlighting circuit . The display module including the LCD display may receive power from the power supply located in the input module. Alternatively the display module may connect to the input module wirelessly so as to eliminate the DIN type cable and connector . In such a configuration the input module may receive power from an internal battery or vehicle power bus or another source.

A first rotary encoder may receive input from the volume control of the display module . A second rotary encoder may receive input from the input control of the display module . The encoded information may be transmitted to the control processor of the input module via serial lines through the connector . The rotary encoders and may additionally provide push and hold notification corresponding to depression and holding of the corresponding controls and .

A first rotary encoder may receive input from the volume control of the display module . A second rotary encoder may receive input from the input control of the display module . The encoded information may be transmitted to the control processor of the input module via serial lines through the connector . The rotary encoders and may additionally provide push and hold notification corresponding to depression and holding of the corresponding controls and .

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded in a computer readable medium such as a CDROM disk flash memory RAM or ROM an electromagnetic signal or other machine readable medium as instructions for execution by a processor or controller. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits including amplifiers adders delays and filters or one or more processors executing amplification adding delaying and filtering instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software.

The logic may be represented in e.g. stored on or in a computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium. The media may comprise any device that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or infrared signal or a semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium includes a magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory i.e. EPROM or Flash memory or an optical fiber. A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which executable instructions are printed as the logic may be electronically stored as an image or in another format e.g. through an optical scan then compiled and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A controller may be implemented as a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instruction sets may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors. The systems may be included in a wide variety of electronic devices including a cellular or wireless phone a headset a hands free set a speakerphone communication interface or an infotainment system.

The audio control system may manage and switch multiple audio sources. The control system may receive audio source input from existing OEM provided devices such as the radio and CD player. The control system may also receive audio source input from additional audio sources such as navigation systems cellular or wireless telephones satellite radios MP3 based players DVD players etc. The control system may be an aftermarket or add on system. Accordingly removal or replacement of the OEM provided devices may be obviated which may preserve the cosmetic appearance of the dashboard. Certain audio input sources may be prioritized such that audio signals from a high priority device such as a navigation system or wireless telephone may interrupt audio signals from lower priority devices.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

