---

title: Single point location tracking for a mobile device in a communication network
abstract: Briefly, in accordance with one or more embodiments, the location of a mobile device within a floor plan of a building or the like environment may be determined using a single transmission link between transceiver and the mobile device. A bit error rate value and a receiver signal strength indication value are measured for the present location of the mobile device in the floor plan. The coordinates where the mobile device is located may be determined by looking up the measured bit error rate value and the received signal strength indication value in a lookup table. Due to environmental factors of the floor plan, the combination of the bit error rate value and the received signal strength indication value corresponds to a unique coordinate location in the floor plan from which the location of the mobile device may be determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07979079&OS=07979079&RS=07979079
owner: Intel-GE Care Innovations LLC
number: 07979079
owner_city: Folsom
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---
In building location determination is inherently difficult and generally not possible with the Global Positioning System GPS because the signals from the GPS orbital satellite signals are too weak to be received through most building construction materials. Shorter range wireless technology can be used to determine inter station range using either received signal strength indication RSSI or time of flight measurements. The former is typically more error prone due to the vagaries of signal reflection and ferrous materials that are capable of propagating a signal thereby distorting what would otherwise be a relatively straightforward calculation based on an inverse square law. Time of flight based on the propagation time of electromagnetic EM waves in space may be a more accurate approach than an RSSI approach however timing radio signals to a few nanoseconds may be technically challenging.

Indoor location tracking utilizing the RSSI approach typically involves two or more receivers for RSSI location awareness. Using two or more receivers may be however an issue because the device that is a master device generally can only have eight slaves in a piconet system so as a result finding a position for a mobile device means that each stationary device is a slave to a mobile master. If portability is an issue then duty cycle can adversely expend the battery life of the mobile devices. Also other devices may not be able to communicate with the master to save data. An alternative architecture would be to have the mobile device function as a slave in the network. The issue is however that the other slaves can not speak to the mobile slave.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and or clarity of illustration elements illustrated in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further if considered appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding and or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuits have not been described in detail.

In the following description and or claims the terms coupled and or connected along with their derivatives may be used. In particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical and or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical and or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements may not be in direct contact with each other but yet may still cooperate and or interact with each other. For example coupled may mean that two or more elements do not contact each other but are indirectly joined together via another element or intermediate elements. Finally the terms on overlying and over may be used in the following description and claims. On overlying and over may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical contact with each other. However over may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other. For example over may mean that one element is above another element but not contact each other and may have another element or elements in between the two elements. Furthermore the term and or may mean and it may mean or it may mean exclusive or it may mean one it may mean some but not all it may mean neither and or it may mean both although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In the following description and or claims the terms comprise and include along with their derivatives may be used and are intended as synonyms for each other.

Referring now to a top plan view of a floor plan of a building or similar location showing lines of received signal strength indication RSSI for a radio transceiver disposed at a location with respect to the floor plan in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. In the diagram the RSSI value is indicated by percentage values along first and second orthogonal axes and . A transceiver such as a personal computer or similar device equipped with a radio frequency RF transceiver is located at or near the intersection of axes and which may be a kitchen area of a house in the example shown in . In one or more embodiments the RF transceiver of transceiver may comprise a Bluetooth radio compliant with a Bluetooth specification may be an Ultra Wideband UWB transceiver compliant with a UWB specification may be a wireless local area network WLAN transceiver compliant with an IEEE 802.11a b g n specification and so on. In general the intensity and or radio signal quality is better at locations closer to transceiver and the radio signal quality diminishes at locations of greater distance away from transceiver . In one or more embodiments mobile device may comprise a watch personal digital assistant PDA smart phone cell phone badge pendant or similar article able to be worn or carried by a user throughout the house represented in although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

As shown in diagonal lines cutting across the floor plan represent lines of iso RSSI that connect identical values on each of the axes and . Using a read of the RSSI value for a given location of mobile device may result in an ambiguity of the location of mobile device as the RSSI location reading may indicate the location of mobile device in the bedroom bathroom or the dining area without the ability to resolve the actual position of mobile device . Such a result may be idealized and may not be seen necessarily in most applications of RF technology. In most instances the actual RSSI profile of the building may be more complex than that shown in due to reflections bounces interference and or the varying inability of the RF to penetrate objects and other structures. In some cases a system that does not exhibit interference would yield two or more possible positions for a given RSSI reading from mobile device . In accordance with one or more embodiments a more accurate location reading may be obtained by utilizing two or more pieces of information about the status of the connection between transceiver and mobile device . In a home for example there are various points at which a radio signal may be bounced reflected or at least partially blocked. Such an RF profile may be unique to given home and positions of transceiver and mobile device and or home construction and furnishings. In a unique environment such as a home the bit error rate BER which may result from the collision of transmitted packets and or packets which have not been received may no longer be a function of the radio signal strength.

Referring now to a graph of free space RSSI with respect to distance compared with bit error rate BER to distance an in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. In free space or an open field the RSSI shown at plot decays as the distance between a receiver for example mobile device and a transmitter for example transceiver grows proportional to an exponential power of four. Thus in free space the RSSI decays to the fourth power whereas as shown at plot beyond a given distance the bit error rate increases linearly as the distance between the transmitter and the receiver increases. The data shown in graph of was taken in a field near Amber Glen in Hillsboro Oreg. USA using a pair of Bluetooth Blueradios SC30A. Using the same two radios when the test was repeated in a home it was discovered that the BER becomes at least partially less tied to the distance and at least partially more tied to the amount of errors associated with multipath issues and or interference in the home due to the construction and layout of the home as shown in and described with respect to below.

Referring now to a top plan view of a floor plan of a building showing the decoupling of BER from distance due to multipath and interference in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. As shown in graph the RSSI as shown at plot falls generally as expected but the BER as shown at plot exhibits a unique signature due to the wall edge at 12 feet and 22 feet from the base station transceiver . As a result a combination of RSSI and BER data in the home is capable of providing a unique signature of the position of a signal at a single corresponding coordinate point in the floor plan via a measurement of the transmission of an RF signal between a transceiver and a receiver.

Referring now to a graph of the error rate of a combination of RSSI and BER with respect to distance in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. The graph shown in was generated by repeating the experiment shown in and described with respect to using a watch as mobile device to compare the error rates of locating the watch using just RSSI and using a combination of RSSI and BER. The experiment was performed using the following algorithm to determine the location of the watch in the home 

The error in the two methodologies is shown in graph for the in home test. As the receiver for example mobile station trends farther from the transmitter for example transceiver percent error for the RSSI only method shown at plot increases as the distance increases such as at distances beyond 20 feet as shown in the example of . The percent error however actually decreases with increasing distance using the combined method of RSSI and BER as shown at plot . The percent error of the combined method may increase as well for example if an architectural obstacle such as a wall or partial wall is disposed in the direct path between the receiver and transmitter. In such a case the BER may increase due to these structures thereby increasing the percent error in the location reading. Overall the location error rate using the combination of RSSI and BER is lower that the location error rate of using just RSSI and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a graph of X Y position in RSSI BER space for utilization in a single point location tracking in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. As shown in graph of effectively the X and Y position may be mapped into RSSI BER space for location determination. In one or more embodiments one or more additional parameters can also be utilized for example transmission strength to obtain a higher confidence and or lower percent error in the location calculation although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments a map of a house or similar location is done first to determine the BER and RSSI averaged in various rooms and in various locations throughout the rooms. A lookup table of the house map may be stored in transceiver which may be used to infer the position of a person in the home or building wearing and or carrying mobile device . Graph shows such an example map of the RSSI and the BER for a home. Such a map may be a three dimensional 3 D graph in which the BER is plotted for the given X Y position on the floor graph and the height values shown with wire frame in graph is the RSSI at the given X Y position. By looking up the BER and RSSI values in the lookup table the X Y position of mobile device may be determined from the X Y values stored in the lookup table and the unique position of mobile device in the house may be determined via a single location reading of the signal transmitted between transceiver and mobile device . In one or more embodiments the lookup table may be stored in mobile device rather than in transceiver such that mobile device may independently determine its own location rather than or in addition to the location being determined by transceiver . In one or more alternative embodiments multiple position determining calculations may be performed for example using transmission in a forward channel from transceiver to mobile device or in a reverse channel from mobile device to transceiver or combinations thereof. One or more of such multiple readings may be aggregated averaged or otherwise combined to decrease the percent error for location readings although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments a map may be generated for different power levels of the transmitted signal. In such an arrangement the lookup table may contain a set of values for each of the power level maps so that when a location of mobile device is determined the map that is used will be a map corresponding to the power level the signal transmitted between transceiver and mobile device . Furthermore such utilization of multiple power level maps may be based at least in part on a clustering algorithm wherein the data may be organized into one or more clusters of readings for a given power level and the location determination may be made based on the cluster of data corresponding to a given power level. In addition a set of data may be mapped to a corresponding room in the floor plan for example the kitchen dining room bedroom and so on such that the particular room in which the mobile device is located may be determined by looking up the room in the lookup table that corresponds to one or more characteristic values of the transmitted signal. In one or more embodiments in the event that the data obtained at two or more locations is not unique the power of the transmitted signal may be changed a gain of the transmitted signal may be changed or a receiver gain may be changed or combinations thereof to obtain additional values and or plots at the locations in order to obtain values that are unique. These are however merely examples of how the location of mobile device in the floor plan may be determined and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments the lookup table for the BER RSSI graph of may be organized into a database which may comprise data for one or more homes or buildings. Such a database may refer to an organization of information created stored accessed edited and or otherwise utilized by a computing platform. In one or more embodiments a tag may refer to a command contained in a file object and or document that may specify how the file object and or document and or a portion thereof may be formatted. In one or more embodiments metadata may refer to information pertaining to data contained in a file object and or document for example formatting information date of creation date of editing date saved how data was obtained and or from where data was obtained. Such metadata for example may be utilized in for database management purposes and or for data warehousing of multiple databases although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments an application programming interface API may refer to a set of routines protocols and or tools utilized to cause a program to operate in conjunction with an operating system. In one or more embodiments an operating system may refer to a program to execute on a computing platform to handle input and or output commands file management printing displaying storing and or communicating of information for the computing platform. These are however merely examples of database and or operating system functions and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Referring now to a block diagram of a wireless network communication system showing one or more network devices capable of capable of utilizing single point location tracking in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. In the communication system shown in a mobile unit which may correspond to mobile device may include a wireless transceiver to couple to an antenna and to a processor to provide baseband and media access control MAC processing functions. In one or more embodiments mobile unit may be a cellular telephone or an information handling system such as a mobile personal computer or a personal digital assistant or the like that incorporates a cellular telephone communication module WLAN module Bluetooth module UWB module and so on although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Processor in one embodiment may comprise a single processor or alternatively may comprise a baseband processor and an applications processor although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Processor may couple to a memory which may include volatile memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM non volatile memory such as flash memory or alternatively may include other types of storage such as a hard disk drive although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Some portion or all of memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as processor or alternatively some portion or all of memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium for example a hard disk drive that is external to the integrated circuit of processor although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Mobile unit may communicate with access point which may correspond to transceiver via wireless communication link in which access point may include at least one antenna transceiver processor and memory . In one embodiment access point may be a base station of a cellular telephone network and in an alternative embodiment access point may be an access point or wireless router of a wireless local or personal area network and or may contain a WLAN module Bluetooth module UWB module and so on although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In an alternative embodiment access point and optionally mobile unit may include two or more antennas for example to provide a spatial division multiple access SDMA system or a multiple input multiple output MIMO system although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Access point may couple with network so that mobile unit may communicate with network including devices coupled to network by communicating with access point via wireless communication link . Network may include a public network such as a telephone network or the Internet or alternatively network may include a private network such as an intranet or a combination of a public and a private network although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Communication between mobile unit and access point may be implemented via a wireless local area network WLAN for example a network compliant with a an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard such as IEEE 802.11a b g n HiperLAN II and so on although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In another embodiment communication between mobile unit and access point may be at least partially implemented via a cellular communication network compliant with a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP or 3G standard although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments antenna may be utilized in a wireless sensor network or a mesh network although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments communication system may be disposed in a home or similar location to implement single point location tracking as discussed herein.

Referring now to a block diagram of an information handling system capable of capable of utilizing single point location tracking in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. Information handling system of may tangibly embody one or more of any of the network elements as shown in and described with respect to . For example information handling system may represent the hardware of transceiver and or mobile device with greater or fewer components depending on the hardware specifications of the particular device or network element. Although information handling system represents one example of several types of computing platforms information handling system may include more or fewer elements and or different arrangements of elements than shown in and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Information handling system may comprise one or more processors such as processor and or processor which may comprise one or more processing cores. One or more of processor and or processor may couple to one or more memories and or via memory bridge which may be disposed external to processors and or or alternatively at least partially disposed within one or more of processors and or . Memory and or memory may comprise various types of semiconductor based memory for example volatile type memory and or non volatile type memory. Memory bridge may couple to a graphics system to drive a display device not shown coupled to information handling system .

Information handling system may further comprise input output I O bridge to couple to various types of I O systems. I O system may comprise for example a universal serial bus USB type system an IEEE 1394 type system or the like to couple one or more peripheral devices to information handling system . Bus system may comprise one or more bus systems such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI express type bus or the like to connect one or more peripheral devices to information handling system . A hard disk drive HDD controller system may couple one or more hard disk drives or the like to information handling system for example Serial ATA type drives or the like or alternatively a semiconductor based drive comprising flash memory phase change and or chalcogenide type memory or the like. Switch may be utilized to couple one or more switched devices to I O bridge for example Gigabit Ethernet type devices or the like. Furthermore as shown in information handling system may include a radio frequency RF block comprising RF circuits and devices for wireless communication with other wireless communication devices and or via wireless networks such as network of for example in which information handling system embodies base station and or transceiver although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments RF block may comprise system of at least in part although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Although the claimed subject matter has been described with a certain degree of particularity it should be recognized that elements thereof may be altered by persons skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and or scope of claimed subject matter. It is believed that the subject matter pertaining to single point location tracking and or many of its attendant utilities will be understood by the forgoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and or arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and or spirit of the claimed subject matter or without sacrificing all of its material advantages the form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof and or further without providing substantial change thereto. It is the intention of the claims to encompass and or include such changes.

