---

title: Transfer device and image forming apparatus having at least two contacting members applied with corresponding transfer biases
abstract: An image forming apparatus includes an intermediate transfer belt, a photosensitive belt, a primary transfer roller, a secondary-transfer opposing roller, and a secondary transfer roller. The photosensitive belt comes into contact with a surface of the intermediate transfer belt to form a primary transfer nip. The secondary-transfer opposing roller comes into contact with the surface of the intermediate transfer belt to form a secondary transfer nip. The closest distance between a surface of the photosensitive belt and that of the primary transfer roller is greater than the thickness of the intermediate transfer belt. A toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred onto a recording sheet at the secondary transfer nip while a transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer roller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07929877&OS=07929877&RS=07929877
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 07929877
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20071101
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference the entire contents of Japanese priority document 2006 314203 filed in Japan on Nov. 21 2006.

Tandem drum image forming apparatuses and single drum image forming apparatuses have been known. For example Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 2004 142920 discloses a tandem drum image forming apparatus that includes a plurality of image carriers such as photosensitive members. The image carriers are brought into contact with a surface of an endless intermediate transfer belt to form a plurality of primary transfer nips. In one of the primary transfer nips at which a first primary transfer process is performed a toner image on an image carrier is transferred onto a surface of the intermediate transfer belt on which no image is transferred yet. In contrast for the other primary transfer nips a toner image on the image carrier is primary transferred onto the already transferred toner image on the intermediate transfer belt to thus be superimposed thereon. Through such a superimposing primary transfer process a superimposed toner image is formed on the intermediate transfer belt. The superimposed toner image is collectively secondary transferred onto a recording medium e.g. recording sheet nipped in a secondary transfer nip formed as a contact portion between the intermediate transfer belt and e.g. a roller.

On the other hand Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 2004 109575 discloses a single drum image forming apparatus that includes only one image carrier. The image carrier is brought into contact with a surface of an endless intermediate transfer belt to form a primary transfer nip. During a period in which the intermediate transfer belt rotates a plurality of times toner images formed on the image carrier are transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt to thus be superimposed one upon another on the intermediate transfer belt. When a superimposed toner image is formed on the intermediate transfer belt a shifting mechanism that brings a roller member or the like into and out of contact with the intermediate transfer belt is actuated so that the roller member is brought into contact therewith to form a secondary transfer nip. The superimposed toner images on the intermediate transfer belt are collectively secondary transferred onto a recording medium nipped in the secondary transfer nip.

In the conventional technologies described above toner images superimposed in multiple layers pass through the primary transfer nip in the primary transfer process. This poses a problem that an overpressure is undesirably applied to the multi layered toner images which induces a defect related to superimposing transfer such as a void.

Moreover moisture absorption by a recording medium is likely to induce defective secondary transfer. More specifically a recording medium made of fiber or the like absorbs moisture under an environment of high temperature and high humidity resulting in less electric resistance across the recording medium. When the recording medium of the thus decreased resistance is nipped in the secondary transfer nip formed as a contact portion between the intermediate transfer belt and a roller member to which a secondary transfer bias is applied a transfer current undesirably flows to the ground via the roller member the recording medium a guide member contacting the recording medium and the like. Thus the transfer current supplied from the roller member to the intermediate transfer belt becomes undercurrent thereby causing defective secondary transfer.

It is an object of the present invention to at least partially solve the problems in the conventional technology.

A transfer device includes an intermediate transfer member that moves endlessly an image carrier that comes into contact with a first surface of the intermediate transfer member to form a first transfer nip a first contacting member that is applied with a first transfer bias while in contact with a first region or near the first region to transfer a toner image on the image carrier onto the intermediate transfer member or a toner image that has already been transferred onto the intermediate transfer member in a superimposed manner at the first transfer nip to obtain a superimposed toner image the first region being a portion of a second surface of the intermediate transfer member corresponding to the first transfer nip a nip forming member that comes into contact with the first surface of the intermediate transfer member to form a second transfer nip and a second contacting member that is applied with a second transfer bias while in contact with a second region or near the second region to transfer the superimposed toner image on the intermediate transfer member onto a recording medium at the second transfer nip the second region being a portion of the second surface of the intermediate transfer member corresponding to the second transfer nip. The closest distance between a surface of the image carrier and a surface of the first contacting member is greater than a thickness of the intermediate transfer member.

An image forming apparatus includes a transfer device that includes an intermediate transfer member that moves endlessly an image carrier that carries a toner image and comes into contact with a first surface of the intermediate transfer member to form a first transfer nip a first contacting member that is applied with a transfer bias while in contact with a first region or near the first region to transfer a toner image on the image carrier onto the intermediate transfer member or a toner image that has already been transferred onto the intermediate transfer member in a superimposed manner at the first transfer nip to obtain a superimposed toner image the first region being a portion of a second surface of the intermediate transfer member corresponding to the first transfer nip a nip forming member that comes into contact with the first surface of the intermediate transfer member to form a second transfer nip and a second contacting member that is applied with a transfer bias while in contact with a second region or near the second region to transfer the superimposed toner image on the intermediate transfer member onto a recording medium at the second transfer nip the second region being a portion of the second surface of the intermediate transfer member corresponding to the second transfer nip. The closest distance between a surface of the image carrier and a surface of the first contacting member is greater than a thickness of the intermediate transfer member.

The above and other objects features advantages and technical and industrial significance of this invention will be better understood by reading the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are explained in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The photosensitive belt includes an endless photosensitive belt a drive roller a tension roller a primary transfer nip backup roller a charging roller and a photosensitive member cleaning unit . The photosensitive belt extends around the drive roller the tension roller and the primary transfer nip backup roller . A drive unit not shown rotates the drive roller clockwise thereby rotating the photosensitive belt clockwise in .

The photosensitive belt is made of an endless belt having a surface front face covered with a photosensitive layer. The charging roller rotated by a drive unit not shown is in contact with a portion of the photosensitive belt at which the photosensitive belt is in contact with the drive roller . A charging bias is applied to the charging roller from a power supply not shown . This causes discharge to occur between the charging roller and the front face of the photosensitive belt thereby electrically charging the photosensitive layer of the photosensitive belt uniformly e.g. negatively at a portion between the photosensitive belt and the charging roller or in its neighborhood.

The optical writing unit is located at a downwardly leftward position relative to the photosensitive belt in . The optical writing unit optically scans the photosensitive layer of the photosensitive belt which has been uniformly charged with a laser beam L emitted from a laser diode based on image data supplied from a personal computer not shown or the like. An electrostatic latent image is thus formed on the photosensitive layer. Other types of optical writing units can be used for optical scanning using for example a light emitting diode LED array.

The transfer unit causes an endless intermediate transfer belt to endlessly move at a linear velocity of 150 mm sec and is located to the right of the photosensitive belt in . A surface front face of the intermediate transfer belt is brought into contact with a portion of the photosensitive belt at which the primary transfer backup roller is wound around by the photosensitive belt to form a primary transfer nip.

The photosensitive belt endlessly moves at a linear velocity of 150 mm sec on an orbit along which the photosensitive belt is moved on a left side stretched face of the photosensitive belt approximately vertically upward in . The developing device that includes vertically arranged developing units Y M C and K is located to the left of the left side stretched face in . Each of the developing units Y M C and K is individually brought into and out of contact with the photosensitive belt by corresponding one of shifting mechanisms not shown .

In the printer development with four colors Y M C and K is performed on the photosensitive belt over a period during which the photosensitive belt rotates four times. More specifically first the optical writing unit optically scans the surface of the photosensitive belt having been uniformly negatively charged to approximately 500 volts with the charging roller to form an electrostatic latent image for Y thereon. While the photosensitive belt endlessly moves with only the developing unit Y among the four developing units Y M C and K brought in contact with the photosensitive belt the developing unit Y develops the electrostatic latent image into a Y toner image. A negative developing bias applied to a developing roller of the developing unit Y is approximately 300 volts. The Y toner image is caused to advance into the primary transfer nip as the photosensitive belt rotates and primary transferred from the photosensitive belt to the intermediate transfer belt . Transfer residual toner remaining on the surface of the photosensitive belt past through the primary transfer nip is scraped off by a cleaning blade in the photosensitive member cleaning unit .

The surface of the photosensitive belt having been cleaned is uniformly negatively charged to 500 volts again by the charging roller . The optical writing unit optically scans the surface of the photosensitive belt having been uniformly negatively charged to form an electrostatic latent image for M thereon. While the photosensitive belt endlessly moves with only the developing unit M among the four developing units Y M C and K brought into contact therewith the developing unit M develops the electrostatic latent image into an M toner image. Circular movement of the photosensitive belt causes the M toner image to advance into the primary transfer nip. Simultaneously circular movement of the intermediate transfer belt causes the Y toner image having been transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt in advance to advance into the primary transfer nip. The M toner image on the photosensitive belt is superimposed and primary transferred onto the Y toner image.

Thereafter as in the case of the M toner image a C toner image and a K toner image are sequentially formed on the photosensitive belt and superimposed on the superimposed Y and M toner images on the intermediate transfer belt and primary transferred thereto in the primary transfer nip. Thus a four color superimposed toner image is eventually formed on the intermediate transfer belt .

In addition to the intermediate transfer belt the transfer unit includes a secondary transfer roller a tension roller a primary transfer roller a grounded roller a belt cleaner a first eccentric cam a mark sensor made of a reflective photo sensor a primary transfer bias power supply a primary transfer bias controller a secondary transfer bias controller a secondary transfer bias power supply a secondary transfer opposing roller an opposing roller support a second eccentric cam and an ammeter . The intermediate transfer belt extends around the secondary transfer roller the tension roller the primary transfer roller and the grounded roller . A drive unit not shown rotates the secondary transfer roller counterclockwise in thereby causing the intermediate transfer belt to endlessly rotate counterclockwise in .

The intermediate transfer belt is an endless belt made of a material obtained by dispersing a conductive material such as carbon black in polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF polyethylene tetrafluoroethylene ETFE polyimide PI polycarbonate PC or a like material. A surface front face of the belt can be covered with a surface layer made of a conductive material.

When such a belt covered with the surface layer is employed as the intermediate transfer belt a material that exhibits a toner releasing property superior to that of the belt is desirably used as a material of the surface layer. Examples of such a material include fluorine resins such as ETFE polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE PVDF a perfluoro alkoxyfluoro resin PEA a fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer FEP and vinyl fluoride PVF .

Example manufacturing methods for the intermediate transfer belt include mold casting and centrifugal casting. The surface of the intermediate transfer belt manufactured through such a manufacturing method can be polished as required.

The secondary transfer opposing roller comes into contact with a portion on the front side of the intermediate transfer belt at which the secondary transfer roller is wound around by the intermediate transfer belt to form the secondary transfer nip. Meanwhile the opposing roller support that rotatably supports itself is moved by a shifting mechanism formed with the second eccentric cam a spring not shown and the like to thus be brought into and out of contact with the intermediate transfer belt . During the course of the primary transfer process of superimposing the toner image of each color on the intermediate transfer belt the secondary transfer opposing roller is separated from the intermediate transfer belt . When the superimposing primary transfer process is completed the secondary transfer opposing roller is brought into contact with the intermediate transfer belt to form the secondary transfer nip.

The sheet feeder includes a sheet feed cassette and a sheet feed roller . The sheet feed cassette houses a plurality of recording sheets P stacked in a batch therein. The sheet feed roller is in contact with a topmost recording sheet P of the sheet batch. The sheet feed roller rotates at a predetermined timing to feed the recording sheet P to the sheet feed path .

The sheet feed path is formed of a pair of guide plates facing each other with a predetermined gap therebetween a transport roller pair the registration roller pair and the like. The sheet feed path nips the recording sheet P fed from the sheet feed cassette between the transport roller pair and transports the recording sheet P vertically upward along the sheet feed path . The recording sheet P is then nipped between the registration roller pair positioned near a downstream end of the sheet feed path . Immediately after nipping the recording sheet P at a portion near a leading end the registration roller pair is deactivated to stop rotation. Thereafter the registration roller pair is activated to start rotation at a timing for synchronizing the recording sheet P with the four color superimposed toner image on the intermediate transfer belt thereby feeding the recording sheet P to the secondary transfer nip.

In the secondary transfer nip the four color superimposed toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is collectively secondary transferred onto the recording sheet P fed to the secondary transfer nip in the secondary transfer nip. The four color image is combined with a white color of the recording sheet P thereby forming a full color image on the recording sheet P. The recording sheet P on which the full color image is thus formed is fed from the secondary transfer nip to the fuser . In advance of the process the recording sheet P has been charged in the secondary transfer nip. In a course of transportation from the secondary transfer nip to the fuser the recording sheet P comes into contact with a static eliminating needle fixed to the opposing roller support to thus be diselectrified. This prevents such an inconvenient circumstance that on the way of transportation to the fuser the recording sheet P that carries a not yet fused toner image is excessively charged and damages the not yet fused toner image with the excessive charge.

The static eliminating needle is made of a stainless steel plate SUS of 0.2 millimeter thick processed into a saw toothed shape of which saw pitch is 3 millimeters. A high voltage power supply not shown applies a predetermined static eliminating bias to the static eliminating needle at a timing at which the leading end of the recording sheet P starts coming into contact therewith. In place of applying the static eliminating bias to the static eliminating needle the static eliminating needle can be grounded.

In the fuser a fusing roller that incorporates a heater such as a halogen lamp and a pressing roller to be pressed against the fusing roller are brought into contact with each other to form a fusing nip and rotated. The recording sheet P nipped in the fusing nip is discharged out of the secondary transfer nip and transported. In the course of the transportation the recording sheet P is subjected to heating pressing and the like to have the full color image fused thereon.

The recording sheet P onto which the full color image is fused is fed out from the fuser and thereafter discharged to the outside of the image forming apparatus by way of the sheet discharge roller pair .

Secondary transfer residual toner is sticking onto the surface of the intermediate transfer belt moved past the secondary transfer nip. The secondary transfer residual toner is removed from the surface of the intermediate transfer belt by the belt cleaner contacting a portion of the intermediate transfer belt at which the tension roller is wound around by the intermediate transfer belt . It should be noted that if the belt cleaner is configured to be in constant contact with the intermediate transfer belt the belt cleaner undesirably removes from the intermediate transfer belt a toner image that is being superimposed in the superimposing primary transfer process that causes the intermediate transfer belt to rotate a plurality of times. To avoid the inconvenience a shifting mechanism formed with the first eccentric cam or the like separates the belt cleaner away from the intermediate transfer belt when the superimposing primary transfer process is performed. When the secondary transfer process is started the belt cleaner is brought into contact with the intermediate transfer belt to remove the secondary transfer residual toner.

In the superimposing primary transfer process the primary transfer bias power supply applies a primary transfer bias of 700 volts to 1 000 volts to the primary transfer roller . Thus a primary transfer electric field is formed for electrostatically transferring the negatively charged toner images from the photosensitive belt onto the primary transfer roller in the primary transfer nip and the superimposing primary transfer process is performed. More specifically a primary bias of 700 volts is applied to the primary transfer roller to perform primary transfer of the Y toner image. To allow for accumulation of charges in the belt 800 volts 900 volts and 1 000 volts are applied to the primary transfer roller to perform primary transfer and superimpose the M C and K toner images on one another respectively.

The mark sensor in the transfer unit detects a reference toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt for measurement of image forming performance and the like and an amount of toner sticking to the intermediate transfer belt per unit area of the reference toner image.

The printer according to the embodiment is capable of performing printing in a monochrome mode for forming a monochrome image of only any one of the four colors of Y M C and K a two color mode for forming a two color image of any two of the four colors and a three color mode for forming a three color image of any three of the same in addition to a full color mode for forming a full color image. Switching among the modes is performed as required based on image data supplied from a personal computer or the like.

In the monochrome mode the superimposing primary transfer process is not performed in the primary transfer nip but a monochrome toner image having been primary transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt in the primary transfer nip is secondary transferred onto the recording sheet P in the secondary transfer nip without returning to the primary transfer nip.

In the two color mode a second color toner image having been primary transferred and superimposed onto a first color toner image in the primary transfer nip is secondary transferred with the first color toner image onto the recording sheet P in the secondary transfer nip without returning to the primary transfer nip.

In the three color mode a third color toner image having been primary transferred and superimposed onto first color and second color toner images in the primary transfer nip is secondary transferred with the first color and second color toner images to the recording sheet P in the secondary transfer nip without returning to the primary transfer nip.

The developing units Y M C and K use Y M C and K toners respectively of which shape factor SF first shape factor falls within the range of 100 to 180 and shape factor SF second shape factor falls within in the range of 100 to 180. is a schematic diagram of a toner particle for explaining the shape factor SF . is another schematic diagram of a toner particle for explaining the shape factor SF .

The shape factor SF expressed as SF MXLNG AREA 100 4 represents the degree of roundness of a toner particle. More specifically the shape factor SF is obtained by projecting a toner particle as shown in on a two dimensional plane to obtain a maximum length MXLNG and an area of the projected shape. A square of the maximum length MXLNG is divided by the area AREA and then multiplied by 100 4. When a value of the shape factor SF of a toner particle is 100 the toner particle is a true sphere. The greater the SF value the less roundly the toner particle is shaped.

The shape factor SF expressed as SF PERI AREA 100 4 represents the degree of irregularity of a toner particle. More specifically the shape factor SF is calculated by dividing a square of a perimeter PERI of a projected shape of a toner particle on a two dimensional plane by an area AREA of the shape and multiplying the result by 100 4. When a value of the shape factor SF of a toner particle is 100 a surface of the toner particle has no projections and depressions. The greater the SF value the more irregularly the surface of the toner particle is formed.

To obtain the shape factors SF and SF a target toner is photographed through a scanning electron microscope S 800 manufactured by Hitachi Ltd. and analyzed using an image analyzer LUSEX 3 manufactured by NIRECO Corporation . When a toner particle has a shape close to a sphere contact between toner particles or that between a toner particle and a photosensitive member is made at a point which weakens adhesion between toner particles thereby increasing the fluidity of the toner. Because adhesion between the toner and the photosensitive member is also weakened a transfer efficiency is increased. When any one of the shape factor SF and SF values exceeds 180 the transfer efficiency unfavorably decreases.

As each of the Y M C and K toners a toner of which volume average particle size is in the range of 4 to 10 micrometers is employed. When printing is performed using a toner of which volume average particle size is smaller than 4 micrometers smear can occur in a not to be printed area or a white spot can be developed because the toner has poor fluidity and is likely to be agglomerated during development. On the other hand printing using a toner of which volume average particle size is greater than 10 micrometer can result in toner scattering or degradation in resolution. A toner of which volume average particle size is approximately 6.5 micrometers is most preferable.

Polymerised toners produced through polymerization can satisfy the requirements about the shape factors and the volume average particle size. It is difficult to satisfy the requirements using pulverized toner or other toners however pulverized toner can alternatively be employed so long as it is capable of satisfying the requirements.

Referring back to the photosensitive belt i.e. an image carrier comes into contact with the front face of the intermediate transfer belt to form the primary transfer nip. The primary transfer bias power supply applies a primary transfer bias to the primary transfer roller while the primary transfer roller brings its surface into contact with a vicinity of a back of primary transfer nip region which is a portion of an entire region of a rear face of the intermediate transfer belt with respect to a circular moving direction of the intermediate transfer belt . The closest distance between the front face of the photosensitive belt and the surface of the primary transfer roller is greater than the thickness of the intermediate transfer belt in and near the primary transfer nip.

If the closest distance between the front face of the photosensitive belt and the surface of the primary transfer roller is set to be equal to the thickness of the intermediate transfer belt the primary transfer roller is perpendicularly pressed against the intermediate transfer belt from the back of the primary transfer nip. To increase a primary transfer nip pressure in this state it is necessary to cause the primary transfer roller to press the intermediate transfer belt against the photosensitive belt with strength. When the primary nip pressure is thus increased the four layer toner images of the Y M C and K toners are excessively pressed in the primary transfer nip to which a relatively high pressure is applied. This induces a white spot or other defective superimposing transfer.

In contrast according to the embodiment the closest distance between the front face of the photosensitive belt and the surface of the primary transfer roller is set to be greater than the thickness of the intermediate transfer belt so that the primary transfer roller is not perpendicularly pressed against the intermediate transfer belt from the back of the primary transfer nip. This decreases the primary transfer nip pressure as compared with the case where the primary transfer roller is perpendicularly pressed against the photosensitive belt from the back of the primary transfer nip thereby preventing defective superimposing transfer. More specifically according to the embodiment the primary transfer roller is brought into contact with the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt at a position displaced from the back of primary transfer nip region by 10 millimeters downstream with respect to a moving direction of the belt. The primary transfer roller is prevented from exerting its pressing force on the primary transfer nip thereby preventing occurrence of defective superimposing transfer resulting from exertion of the pressing force by the primary transfer roller .

Furthermore because agglomeration of toners due to the pressure applied in the primary transfer nip is suppressed an increase in adhesion between the toner image and the intermediate transfer belt is suppressed. This allows to suppress a decrease in efficiency in secondary transfer which can otherwise be caused by the adhesion.

The distance from the back of primary transfer nip region to the contact portion between the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt and the primary transfer roller is not necessarily 10 millimeters. The distance can be e.g. 2 millimeters. It should be noted that the distance must be such a value with which the closest distance between the photosensitive belt and the primary transfer roller can be greater than the thickness of the intermediate transfer belt .

In the primary transfer nip and a vicinity thereof a primary transfer current flows from the primary transfer roller to which the primary transfer bias is applied through the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt in its circumferential direction to the back of primary transfer nip region and then flows through the intermediate transfer belt in its thicknesswise direction to the photosensitive belt . Thereafter the primary transfer current flows through the photosensitive belt in its thicknesswise direction to the primary transfer backup roller and eventually be grounded. When the primary transfer roller is brought into contact with the intermediate transfer belt at a position displaced from the back of primary transfer nip region it is necessary to cause the primary transfer current out of the primary transfer roller to flow in the circumferential direction of the belt toward the primary transfer nip. The primary transfer roller is in contact with the intermediate transfer belt at the position downstream of the back of primary transfer nip region with respect to the moving direction of the belt rather than a position upstream thereof to avoid an increase in electric field strength in a neighborhood of a nip starting area of the primary transfer nip which can otherwise be caused when the primary transfer current flows to the neighborhood of the nip starting area. This suppresses transfer dusts formed with toner particles dislodged from the photosensitive belt and scattered toward the intermediate transfer belt by the electric field upstream of the primary transfer nip. When toner that is less easily scattered through gaps is employed the primary transfer roller can be in contact with the intermediate transfer belt at a position upstream of the back of primary transfer nip region with respect to the moving direction of the belt.

Because the intermediate transfer belt is required to allow the primary transfer current to be conducted through the rear face in the circumferential direction of the belt a belt of which surface resistivity on the rear face is adjusted to 10 to 10 is employed as the intermediate transfer belt . This is because when the surface resistivity is lower than 10 the primary transfer current undesirably flows from the primary transfer roller to the ground via one of the rollers e.g. the secondary transfer roller that stretch the intermediate transfer belt therearound. As a result defective primary transfer is increasingly likely to occur due to an insufficient primary transfer current in the primary transfer nip. By contrast when the surface resistivity is greater than 10 the primary transfer current is insufficiently supplied to the primary transfer nip because the primary transfer current less easily flows through the intermediate transfer belt in the circumferential direction. In an experiment performed using the printer including the intermediate transfer belt of which surface resistivity was greater than 10 even when the primary transfer bias of 1 800 volts was applied to the primary transfer roller the primary transfer current measured in the primary transfer nip was as small as microamperes. A similar experiment was performed while gradually decreasing the distance between the primary transfer roller and a nip ending area in the primary transfer nip however even when the distance was decreased to as small as millimeters the primary transfer current in the primary transfer nip remained to be insufficient. When the primary transfer bias was further increased in this state electric discharge occurred between the primary transfer roller and the intermediate transfer belt . This discharge caused the toner image on the intermediate transfer belt to be reversely charged and produces a partial transfer void. Another similar experiment using the intermediate transfer belt of which surface resistivity was adjusted to 10 was performed. When the primary transfer bias of volts was applied to the primary transfer roller a sufficient amount of the primary transfer current was successfully supplied to the primary transfer nip.

The volume resistivity and surface resistivity were measured as follows. An HRS probe diameter of inner electrode 5.9 millimeters inside diameter of ring electrode 11 millimeters was connected to a high resistively meter HIRESTA IP manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation and 100 volts surface resistance 500 volts was applied to the intermediate transfer belt across the front and rear faces thereof. After 10 seconds volume resistivity and surface resistivity values were obtained.

The secondary transfer roller stretches the intermediate transfer belt at a region behind the secondary transfer nip and functions as the second contacting member that brings its surface into contact with a backside region of the secondary transfer nip which is a portion of the entire region of the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt with respect to the moving direction of the intermediate transfer belt . The secondary transfer opposing roller comes into contact with a portion on the front face of the intermediate transfer belt at which the intermediate transfer belt forms the secondary transfer nip with the secondary transfer roller .

When the recording sheet P nipped in the secondary transfer nip is decreased in resistance the secondary transfer current undesirably leaks from the recording sheet P via the registration roller pair because the registration roller pair is grounded. This can cause an undercurrent of the secondary transfer current. To attain favorable secondary transfer approximately 30 microamperes of the secondary transfer current in absolute value is desirably supplied to the secondary transfer nip.

Therefore according to the embodiment the secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer roller rather than to the secondary transfer opposing roller . Because the negatively charged toner and the secondary transfer roller are required to repel each other the secondary transfer bias power supply applies a bias of negative polarity the same as that of the toner to the secondary transfer roller . When the printer is configured as described above the secondary transfer current flows to the negatively charged secondary transfer roller . More specifically the secondary transfer current passes through two current paths a first path and a second path. Along the first path the secondary transfer current flows from the grounded secondary transfer opposing roller through the recording sheet P and the intermediate transfer belt in their thicknesswise directions respectively into the secondary transfer roller . Along the second path the secondary transfer current flows from the grounded registration roller pair through the recording sheet P along the sheet plane and then through the intermediate transfer belt in its thicknesswise direction into the secondary transfer roller . Any one of the paths causes the second transfer current between the recording sheet P and the intermediate transfer belt in its thicknesswise direction. Therefore even when moisture absorption by the recording sheet P increases the amount of current passing through the second path a total amount of the second transfer current supplied to the secondary transfer nip remains unchanged. Accordingly even when the recording sheet P absorbs moisture a sufficient amount of the secondary transfer current is supplied to flow from the recording sheet P to the intermediate transfer belt thereby suppressing occurrence of defective transfer in the secondary transfer nip resulting from the moisture absorption by the recording sheet P.

As the secondary transfer roller a roller made by covering a metal core of a stainless steel or the like with a conductive elastic layer is used. The conductive elastic layer is formed with a material obtained by dispersing a conductive material in an elastic material such as a urethane. The secondary transfer roller is adjusted to have an electrical resistance in the range of 10to 10ohms. When a roller of which electric resistance is greater than ohms is employed as the secondary transfer roller a value of the secondary transfer bias required to obtain the required secondary transfer current sharply increases which increases cost for the power supply. Furthermore because a need of high voltage application arises white spots are likely to be produced on a halftone image due to discharge through gaps near the secondary transfer nip. On the other hand when a roller of which electric resistance is smaller than 10ohms is employed as the secondary transfer roller it is difficult to attain efficient secondary transfer for both a multi color image portion e.g. an image on which three colors are superimposed on an image and that for a monochrome image portion of the same image. The reason therefor is described below. Because the secondary transfer roller is low in electric resistance a sufficient amount of the secondary transfer current for the monochrome image portion can be ensured with a relatively low secondary transfer bias. On the other hand the multi color image portion requires a higher voltage than an optimum voltage for the monochrome image portion. When the secondary transfer voltage is set to such a value that attains favorable secondary transfer of the multi color image portion an excessive amount of the secondary transfer current is supplied for the monochrome image which reduces the transfer efficiency.

The electric resistance across the secondary transfer roller was measured as follows. The secondary transfer roller was placed on a conductive metal plate. While a load of 4.9 newtons was applied to each side a total of 9.8 newtons of a metal core of the secondary transfer roller 1 000 volts was applied across the metal core and the metal plate and a current value at this time was measured. The value of the electric resistance was calculated based on the current value.

The secondary transfer roller to be driven through a gear not shown fixed to one end of the metal core is adjusted to rotate at an essentially identical peripheral velocity with that of the intermediate transfer belt .

As the primary transfer roller a metal roller the entire of which is formed with a metal material such as a stainless steel is used. When the primary transfer roller has such a configuration an outer diameter of a roller section of the primary transfer roller is less easily changed than that formed with an elastic material such as a urethane foam or a rubber. Thus fluctuation in pressing force against the primary transfer nip can be prevented which can otherwise be caused by fluctuation in outer diameter. Hence the primary transfer nip can be continuously maintained at a lower pressure stably. When the primary transfer roller is positioned at a considerably great distance from the primary transfer nip influences which can otherwise be imparted by fluctuations in the outer diameter on the primary transfer nip pressure can be prevented. Therefore a roller covered with a conductive resin of which electric resistance is relatively low can alternatively be employed.

As described above as the secondary transfer roller being one of the roller members is rotated by the driving unit not shown counterclockwise in the intermediate transfer belt endlessly moves counterclockwise in . This imparts a driving force to the intermediate transfer belt at the back of the secondary transfer nip thereby stabilizing a peripheral velocity of the intermediate transfer belt in the secondary transfer nip. More specifically when the recording sheet P advances into the secondary transfer nip a load applied to the intermediate transfer belt increases sharply. When a roller that is in contact with the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt at a position separated from the secondary transfer nip by a relatively large distance is used as a drive roller the sharp increase in the load can result in abrupt fluctuations in a tension of the intermediate transfer belt thereby easily decreasing the surface velocity of the intermediate transfer belt in the secondary transfer nip sharply. In contrast when the secondary transfer roller on the back of the secondary transfer nip is used also as a drive roller the increase in the load applied to the intermediate transfer belt is directly received by the secondary transfer roller . This suppresses a decrease in the surface velocity of the intermediate transfer belt in the secondary transfer nip caused by the fluctuations in tension of the intermediate transfer belt .

In the printer the primary transfer roller to which the primary transfer bias of the polarity opposite to that of the toner is located at a position displaced from the back of primary transfer nip region. Accordingly it is necessary to employ a belt through which the primary transfer current can flow in the circumferential direction of the belt as the intermediate transfer belt . As for the secondary transfer process the secondary transfer bias of the same polarity as that of the toner is applied to the secondary transfer roller contacting the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt to suppress defective secondary transfer resulting from moisture absorption by the recording sheet P. In the printer of such a configuration the primary transfer bias and the secondary transfer bias having opposite polarities can interfere with each other and exert adverse influences. More specifically an electric current can be conducted from the positively charged primary transfer roller to the negatively charged secondary transfer roller in the circumferential direction of the belt. This undesirable flow of the electric current from the primary transfer roller to the secondary transfer roller adversely affects the secondary transfer process. Furthermore because an electric current flowing from the primary transfer roller to the secondary transfer roller is generated the primary transfer current undesirably decreases. The decrease in the primary transfer current can be suppressed by setting the primary transfer bias to a higher value to allow for an amount of the electric current flowing to the secondary transfer roller in advance. However because an electric resistance of the intermediate transfer belt varies on a product by product basis an amount of the electric current flowing through the same also varies on a product by product basis. The greater the distance between the primary transfer roller and the secondary transfer roller the greater the variation in the amount of the electric current increases. This makes it difficult to predict the amount of electric current flowing into the secondary transfer roller in advance.

To solve the problem in the printer the conductive grounded roller is brought into contact with the intermediate transfer belt at a position between a contact portion between the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt and the primary transfer roller and that between the rear face and the secondary transfer roller . The conductive grounded roller is grounded. When the printer has such a configuration the electric current flowing from the primary transfer roller circumferentially through the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt to the secondary transfer roller flows into the ground via the grounded roller . This prevents the electric current from flowing from the primary transfer roller to the secondary transfer roller circumferentially through the intermediate transfer belt . Hence adverse influences which can otherwise be exerted on the secondary transfer process due to the electric current flowing from the primary transfer roller into the secondary transfer roller can be prevented. A part of the primary transfer current is conducted through the belt in the circumferential direction to flow into the grounded roller producing a loss in the primary transfer current. However because the distance between the primary transfer roller and the grounded roller is shorter than that between the primary transfer roller and the secondary transfer roller variations in an amount of the current loss due to the variations in resistance of the intermediate transfer belt are suppressed. This increases the ease of prediction about the amount of the current loss of the primary transfer current.

The present inventors measured an amount of electric current flowing from the grounded roller to the secondary transfer roller in the following conditions as the intermediate transfer belt a belt of which surface resistivity was adjusted to 10 was mounted on the printer and the value of the secondary transfer bias was set to a value with which favorable secondary transfer was to be attained. It measured that the amount of the electric current flowing from the grounded roller to the secondary transfer roller was equal to or smaller than 5 of a total amount of the secondary transfer current in this example 30 microamperes flowing into the secondary transfer roller . When the amount of the electric current is at such a low level defective secondary transfer does not occur due to a decrease in the amount of the secondary transfer current. A similar experiment was performed using a belt of which surface resistivity was 10 as the intermediate transfer belt . It measured that the amount of the electric current flowing from the grounded roller to the secondary transfer roller via the belt was equal to or smaller than 30 of the total amount of the secondary transfer current flowing into the secondary transfer roller . When the amount of the electric current is at such a low level approximately 90 of the secondary transfer efficiency can be ensured posing no severe problem. However in a similar experiment performed using a belt of which surface resistivity was 10 as the intermediate transfer belt it measured that the amount of the electric current flowing from the grounded roller to the secondary transfer roller via the belt reached 50 of the total amount of the secondary transfer current flowing into the secondary transfer roller . Under such a state the secondary transfer efficiency falls below 80 of an intended efficiency and can highly possibly induce defective secondary transfer. From the above results of the experiments a belt of which surface resistivity falls within the range of 10 to 10 is desirably employed as the intermediate transfer belt .

The primary transfer bias controller is connected to the primary transfer bias power supply . The primary transfer bias controller controls the voltage output from the primary transfer bias power supply so that a value of the electric current output from the primary transfer bias power supply attains a predetermined value. The secondary transfer bias controller is connected to the secondary transfer bias power supply . The secondary transfer bias controller controls the voltage output from the secondary transfer bias power supply so that a value of the electric current output from the secondary transfer bias power supply attains a predetermined value.

Meanwhile the ammeter that detects an amount of electric current flowing between the intermediate transfer belt and the grounded roller is connected between the grounded roller and the ground lead. Each of the primary transfer bias controller and the secondary transfer bias controller corrects a target value for the electric current output from corresponding one of the power supplies based on a result of detection performed by the ammeter .

More specifically as shown in when a print job starts a main controller not shown of the printer actuates the intermediate transfer belt step S . Thereafter the secondary transfer opposing roller is brought into contact with the intermediate transfer belt to form the secondary transfer nip step S . Subsequently the primary transfer bias controller causes the primary transfer bias power supply to output primary transfer bias and simultaneously controls the primary transfer bias so that the electric current output from the primary transfer bias power supply attains a predetermined target value based on a signal supplied from the main controller step S . The main controller determines whether the ammeter connected thereto has detected an electric current. When no electric current has been detected by the ammeter No at step S the process control moves to step S. When an electric current has been detected by the ammeter YES at step S the main controller outputs a signal indicating a value of the detected current to the primary transfer bias controller . The primary transfer bias controller corrects based on the signal the target value for the primary transfer bias to be supplied from the primary transfer bias power supply by adding the detected current value to the target value or the like step S . The main controller then causes the primary transfer bias power supply to stop applying the primary transfer bias step S .

Subsequently the secondary transfer bias controller causes the secondary transfer bias power supply to output secondary transfer bias and simultaneously controls the secondary transfer bias such that the electric current output from the secondary transfer bias power supply attains a predetermined target value based on a signal supplied from the main controller step S . The main controller determines whether the ammeter has detected an electric current step S . When no electric current is detected by the ammeter NO at step S the process control moves to step S. When an electric current has been detected by the ammeter YES at step S the main controller outputs a signal indicating a value of the detected current to the secondary transfer bias controller . The secondary transfer bias controller corrects based on the signal the target value for the secondary transfer bias to be supplied from the secondary transfer bias power supply by adding the detected current value to the target value or the like step S . When the main controller starts forming an image step S the primary transfer bias controller and the secondary transfer bias controller control the primary transfer bias and the secondary transfer bias to the corrected target values respectively step S .

As just described the target values for the primary transfer current and the secondary transfer current are set to include losses due to current leakage between the grounded roller and the intermediate transfer belt . This allows to supply approximately target amounts of electric current to the primary transfer nip area and the secondary transfer nip respectively. Hence occurrence of defective primary transfer and defective secondary transfer due to losses of the primary and secondary transfer currents resulting from leakage of the currents between the grounded roller and the intermediate transfer belt can be suppressed.

Meanwhile when the bias is under a constant voltage control controlling the target value for the bias in accordance with the amount of losses yields the similar effect.

Both the primary transfer bias power supply that supplies the primary transfer bias to the primary transfer roller and the secondary transfer bias power supply that supplies the secondary transfer bias to the secondary transfer roller are located in a loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt . This downsizes the image forming apparatus as compared with that in which the power supplies are provided outside the loop. When the primary transfer bias power supply and the secondary transfer bias power supply and the transfer unit are configured to be removable with respect to a main body of the image forming apparatus replacement of power supplies is also facilitated.

In the printer the rollers and are employed as the first and second contacting members respectively. Each of the contacting members can be a rotator such as a rotating brush other than a rotating brush or an unrotatable brush blade or plate.

The transfer unit causes the intermediate transfer belt to rotate counterclockwise in while stretching the intermediate transfer belt in a landscape orientation to be longer in a horizontal direction than in a vertical direction. A lower stretched face of the intermediate transfer belt extends in an essentially horizontal direction. Four processing units for the Y M C and K toners i.e. Y M C and K processing units are horizontally arranged below the lower stretched face. Each of the Y M C and K processing units brings corresponding one of the photosensitive members Y M C and K into contact with the front face of the intermediate transfer belt to form the primary transfer nip for corresponding one of the Y M C and K toners.

Except for colors of the toners used the Y M C and K processing units are of essentially like configuration and thus but one of them the Y processing unit that forms a Y toner image is described as an example. The Y processing unit includes the drum shaped photosensitive member Y the developing unit Y a photosensitive member cleaner Y and a charging roller Y held in the same holder and detachably attached to a main body of the printer.

The charging roller Y to which a charging bias is applied from a power supply not shown is rotated by a drive unit not shown and brought into contact with the photosensitive member Y. The charging roller Y discharges electricity at and near a contact portion between the charging roller Y and the photosensitive member Y thereby negatively uniformly charging the photosensitive member Y. In place of the charging roller Y a charging brush can alternatively be brought into contact with the photosensitive member Y. Further alternatively a charger such as a scorotron charger capable of uniformly charging the photosensitive member Y can be employed.

The surface of the photosensitive member Y is thus uniformly charged by the charging roller Y and then scanned and exposed by a laser beam L emitted from an optical writing unit to carry an electrostatic latent image for Y thereon. The electrostatic latent image is developed by the developing unit Y into the Y toner image and thereafter primary transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt in a primary transfer nip for Y formed between the photosensitive member Y and the intermediate transfer belt contacting each other.

Transfer residual toner sticking to the surface of the photosensitive member Y past through the primary transfer nip for Y is removed by the photosensitive member cleaner Y.

The M processing unit is located to the right of the Y processing unit in . The M processing unit forms an M toner image on the photosensitive member M through the same process as described previously for the Y processing unit. The M toner image is transferred and superimposed onto the Y toner image on the intermediate transfer belt in the primary transfer nip for M formed between the photosensitive member M and the intermediate transfer belt contacting each other.

The C processing unit is located to the right of the processing unit for M in . The C processing unit forms a C toner image on the photosensitive member C through the same processes. The C toner image is transferred and superimposed onto the Y and M toner images on the intermediate transfer belt in the primary transfer nip for C formed between the photosensitive member C and the intermediate transfer belt contacting each other.

The K processing unit is located to the right of the C processing unit in . The K processing unit forms a K toner image on the photosensitive member K through the same processes. The K toner image is transferred and superimposed onto the Y M and C toner images on the intermediate transfer belt in the primary transfer nip for K formed between the photosensitive member K and the intermediate transfer belt contacting each other.

The thus formed four color superimposed toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is collectively secondary transferred onto a recording sheet P in the secondary transfer nip formed between the intermediate transfer belt and a secondary transfer opposing roller contacting each other. The four color superimposed toner image is combined with a white color of the recording sheet P thereby forming a full color image on the recording sheet P.

Four primary transfer rollers Y M C and K for the Y M C and K toners are provided in the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt near the primary transfer nips for the Y M C and K toners respectively. As in the case of the printer according to the embodiment each of the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K is provided at a position displaced from corresponding one of back of primary transfer nip regions only by approximately 10 millimeters upstream in the belt moving direction such that each of closest distances between the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K and the photosensitive members Y M C and K is greater than the thickness of the intermediate transfer belt .

In the printer of the modification as in the case of the printer according to the embodiment the secondary transfer bias of the same polarity as that of the toner is applied to the secondary transfer roller contacting the back of secondary transfer nip region on the intermediate transfer belt .

Primary transfer biases are independently supplied to the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K from primary transfer bias power supplies respectively. However when differences in amounts of losses of the primary transfer currents caused by leakage to the grounded roller are small the primary transfer bias of the same value can be applied to the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K.

According to the embodiment a metal roller is used as the primary transfer roller . Therefore as described above an outer diameter of the roller section is less likely to change than that formed with an elastic material such as a urethane foam or a rubber. Accordingly the primary transfer nip can be stably maintained at a lower pressure continuously.

Besides a roller member is used as the secondary transfer roller and the drive unit is provided to rotate the roller member to thereby cause the intermediate transfer belt to endlessly move. This as described above imparts a driving force to the intermediate transfer belt at the back of the secondary transfer nip thereby stabilizing a peripheral velocity of the intermediate transfer belt in the secondary transfer nip.

The printer includes the grounded roller that comes into contact with the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt at the position between the contact portion between the intermediate transfer belt and the secondary transfer roller and that between the rear face and the secondary transfer roller . The grounded roller is grounded. This prevents as described above adverse influences which can otherwise be exerted on secondary transfer due to the electric current flowing from the primary transfer roller into the secondary transfer roller . As a result prediction can be facilitated about the amount of the current loss of the primary transfer current.

The printer includes the ammeter that detects an amount of electric current flowing between the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt and the grounded roller . The printer also includes the primary transfer bias controller and the secondary transfer bias controller that control the primary transfer bias to be applied to the primary transfer roller and the secondary transfer bias to be applied to the secondary transfer roller respectively based on a result of detection performed by the ammeter . With this configuration as described above the target values for the primary transfer current and the secondary transfer current are determined to include losses due to current leakage between the grounded roller and the intermediate transfer belt . This allows to cause the approximately target amount of electric current to flow through each of the primary transfer nip area and the secondary transfer nip area thereby suppressing defective primary transfer and defective secondary transfer resulting from the losses in the primary transfer current and the secondary transfer current.

The primary transfer bias power supply that supplies the primary transfer bias to be applied to the primary transfer roller and the secondary transfer bias power supply that supplies the secondary transfer bias to be applied to the secondary transfer roller are located in the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt . This downsizes the image forming apparatus as compared to that in which the power supplies are provided outside the loop.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the closest distance between the surface of the image carrier and the surface of the first contacting member is set to be greater than the thickness of the intermediate transfer belt to avoid such a circumstance that the first contacting member is undesirably perpendicularly pressed against the image carrier from the back of the first transfer nip. This configuration allows to reduce a pressure applied to the first transfer nip as compared with that of a configuration in which the first contacting member is perpendicularly pressed against the image carrier from the back of the first transfer nip. Hence defective superimposing transfer that can occur when an overpressure is applied to the multi layered toner images in the superimposing transfer process can be suppressed.

Meanwhile the transfer bias is applied to the second contacting member that comes into contact with the back of second transfer nip region or the vicinity thereof on the rear face of the intermediate transfer belt rather than to the second transfer nip forming member that comes into contact with the front face of the intermediate transfer belt to form the secondary transfer nip so that the transfer current out of the secondary contacting member flows into the second transfer nip forming member through the intermediate transfer belt and the recording medium nipped in the secondary transfer nip. According to the configuration even when leakage of the transfer current out of the recording medium of which resistance is decreased due to moisture absorption through the guide member or the like occurs the transfer current flows from the intermediate transfer belt to the recording medium in the second transfer nip located upstream of the contact portion between the recording medium and the guide member and the like without fail. Thus occurrence of defective transfer in the secondary transfer nip due to moisture absorption by the recording medium can be suppressed.

Although the invention has been described with respect to a specific embodiment for a complete and clear disclosure the appended claims are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art that fairly fall within the basic teaching herein set forth.

