---

title: Systems and methods for providing computing device counts
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable media for providing computing device counts are disclosed. Exemplary methods include providing a count of computing devices corresponding to an organization, the count of computing devices being responsive to data corresponding to the computing devices, providing a time period for which the count is valid, and providing information on how the computing device count was determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583500&OS=08583500&RS=08583500
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08583500
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070801
---
This application relates generally to the field of computing devices. More specifically this application relates to systems and methods for providing counts of computing devices.

Having an accurate count of computing devices in an entity is useful for computer system fitness software billing and security compliance reporting purposes. There are numerous data sources indicating computing device counts in an entity as well as different uses for such counts. Increasing demands for accurate computing device counts have spotlighted significant variations in computing device counts and computing device count methodology within a company. There is often no clear explanation that is readily available to account for these variations. Often requests for verification and reconciliation of computing device counts can be very time consuming. Furthermore confusion and uncertainty is created when different computing device counts are provided by different persons or departments within a company. In the past certain computing device count data has been accepted over other computing device count data based solely on which employee or department provided the data. Furthermore computing device counts are often published or included in reports without an understanding how the computing device counts were obtained.

Exemplary embodiments of systems methods and computer program products for providing computing device counts are described. One such method includes providing a count of computing devices corresponding to an organization the count of computing devices being responsive to data corresponding to the computing devices providing a time period for which the count is valid and providing information on how the computing device count was determined.

A system for providing computing device counts includes a processor and memory having instructions stored in the memory. The instructions are configured to enable the processor to provide a count of computing devices corresponding to an organization a time period for which the count is valid and information on how the computing device count was determined.

A computer readable storage medium includes computer readable instructions configured to enable a computer to provide a count of computing devices corresponding to an organization a time period for which the count is valid and information on how the computing device count was determined.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The following detailed description is directed to methods systems and computer readable media for providing computing device counts. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and which are shown by way of exemplary embodiments and implementations.

Exemplary embodiments utilize data sources data gathering tools and data manipulation processes for providing accurate counts of computing devices for an organization. Note that the systems and methods disclosed herein may also be used to provide accurate counts for other devices or elements for which counts are desired. By properly defining the data sources data gathering tools and data manipulation processes the computing device counts can be easily audited and verified. Each computing device count may have one or more specified uses including for example for billing and or software compliance purposes. As used herein a computing device may be for example a desktop computer a notebook computer a server a network router a network switch a specialized computing device a mobile computing device or any other device that uses a processor capable of executing instructions. Illustrative examples of computing device counts include 

According to exemplary embodiments a computing device counting process can be certified to assure a reader of computing device count data that a certain corresponding counting process was used to arrive at the computing device count. Approved uses of computing device counts can be specified as part of a computing device count certification process. A given computing device count can then be used in various reports as appropriate. The various uses or reports may have differing tolerances for the age of a given computing device count.

According to exemplary embodiments a report may indicate which computing device counts in the report are certified. Noting that a computing device count is certified may result in a report reader being confident in the accuracy of the computing device count. Furthermore inclusion of the date and or age tolerances of the computing device count can help a reader determine if the computing device count is still valid and or reliable. The reader may also be provided with information to help the reader understand the scope of the computing device count and the methodology that generated such count. This information may be provided in the report or via another source such as for example a company web site. Such a web site may also provide other information related to various certified computing device counts including approved uses for respective counts. For example the web site may list reports in which each certified computing device count may be used. A query based interface may be used to retrieve information regarding various certified computing device counts and the reports in which such counts may be used.

Note that although only one data source the data source is shown in exemplary embodiments include communication systems such as the communication system having two or more of the data sources for providing the respective computing device records to the computing device counting system . The computing device records may also be provided to the computing device counting system via alternative means such as for example computer readable storage media or a source directly associated with the computing device counting system .

The computing device records provided by the data sources may be in the form of databases spreadsheets and or some other type of data structures. Information provided by the computing device records regarding a particular computing device may include for example among others the type of computing device e.g. desktop vs. notebook and or server vs. user computing device one or more performance characteristics of the computing device e.g. processor speed and or memory capacity operating system type and or version installed on the computing device other software types and or versions installed on the computing device when the computing device has been active whether the computing device is being replaced a date and or time the computing device was logged into a particular system whether and how the computing device is compliant with security requirements whether and or when certain software upgrades and or patches were implemented regarding particular computing device software a date and or time the computing device was scanned by a particular software e.g. computer management or computer security software business unit to which the computing device is assigned and or a company that is performing one or more billable services in connection with the computing device.

Illustrative non limiting examples of software that may be used to provide the computing devices records include Active Directory AD Microsoft Systems Management Server SMS Eracent Nessus REM Excel and MSM .

Illustrative non limiting examples among other of tools for retrieving data from the data source include SMS Web Reporting Eracent Reporting Structured Query Language SQL Server Database DB SQL Server Reporting Services Oracle DB SQL queries and application programming interface API calls.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments the computing device counting application may determine a count of computing devices using any or a combination of a variety of approaches. For example the computing device counting application may filter out computing device record entries not meeting each of the predetermined criteria and then count the remaining computing device record entries. Alternatively the computing device counting application may flag computing device record entries that meet the predetermined criteria and then count them. As another example the computing device counting application may flag computing device record entries that do not meet the predetermined criteria and then count the non flagged computing device record entries. As yet another example the computing device counting application may use a combination of filtering and flagging to help determine a computing device count.

One or more time periods are then determined for which the computing device count is deemed to be valid and or reliable in connection with corresponding disclosure objectives as indicated in box . The time period determination may be performed by a user of the computing device counting system by the computing device counting application or by the report generating application . An actual number of computing devices being counted can be very dynamic due to computing devices being added to a system computing devices being removed from a system client reporting schedules and record processing schedules. Therefore a time period for which a computing device count is deemed valid and or reliable depends on an intended use of the computing device count. The time period may be based on a requirement in a software licensing contract on a computer security requirement on a software billing schedule and or on how fixed or dynamic a particular computing device count is expected to be. Non limiting examples of time periods for which a computing device count is determined to be reliable include among others a day a week a month or a year.

The date and time period associated with a computing device count can help a reader determine when or whether a computing device count is valid and or reliable. Furthermore an as of date corresponding to a date the computing device count was calculated can be associated with the computing device count. The as of date enables a reader of the computing device count to better determine whether a corresponding computing device count is still valid and or reliable in connection with a certain context within which the computing device count is being used.

The computing device records are then processed to identify the records for computing devices managed via a predetermined software as indicated in box . The computing device records are further processed to identify records for computing devices for which a certain billing requirement exists as indicated in box . Identifying records based on billing requirements can be performed when a computing device count is to be used for billing purposes.

The computing device records are then processed to account for duplicate listings in the computing device records as indicated in box . Accounting for duplicate listings helps to prevent computing device counts from being inaccurate due to double counting. A computing device count is then determined based on the computing device record processing as indicated in box . For example certain of the computing device records not meeting certain criteria are eliminated or flagged such that the records are excluded from a computing device count.

The computing device count is then adjusted based on data identifying computing devices being replaced as indicated in box . For example when a computing device is being replaced the computing device and the computing device s replacement may both be active even though the computing device being replaced may soon be deactivated and may no longer be relevant to various computing device counts. Therefore accounting for computing device replacements can help provide a more accurate count of computing devices for various purposes including for example software licensing. A computing device being replaced and a corresponding replacement computing device may be identified as such in the computing device records .

Note that methods depicted in the exemplary flow charts described above may be modified to include fewer additional and or different steps within the scope of this disclosure. Furthermore steps depicted in the flow charts may be performed out of the order shown including substantially concurrently in reverse order or in a substantially different order.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the server . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the server .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer readable media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the server .

According to various embodiments the system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers and data sources through a network such as the communications network . The system may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The system may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device also not shown in .

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the system including the operating system suitable for controlling the operation of the system . The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store a computing device counting application . Functionality provided by the computing device counting application includes for example retrieving computing device records such as the computing device records and analyzing such records to determine counts of computing devices that meet certain criteria. The computing device counting application may also be configured to store and provide information on how various computing device counts were determined and during what time periods such computing device counts are deemed to be valid. Other program modules may also be stored in the mass storage device and utilized by the system .

Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in conjunction with one or more particular embodiments and implementations it is to be understood that the embodiments defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific structure configuration or functionality described herein. Rather the specific structure configuration and functionality are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments which is set forth in the following claims.

