---

title: Methods, devices, and computer program products for controlling wireless connection access
abstract: Methods, devices, and computer program products for controlling wireless network connection access are described. The device includes a processor for executing instructions, and multiple network adapters for operatively connecting to multiple networks. The device includes a wireless network connection monitoring application for controlling access to the multiple networks via the processor, and the monitoring application is configured to monitor the multiple network adapters. The device also includes a monitor file that has permissions for services to communicate on the multiple networks, and the monitoring application allows or denies access to the multiple networks via the plurality of network adapters based on the permissions for the services in the monitor file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032928&OS=08032928&RS=08032928
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08032928
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070727
---
This application is a continuation in part of non provisional application 11 653 550 filed Jan. 16 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 664 851 which claims the benefit of provisional patent application 60 830 812 filed Jul. 14 2006 the entire contents of both applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Exemplary embodiments relate generally to controlling wireless network connection access and more particularly to methods systems and computer program products for controlling wireless network connection access in response to services attempting to access the wireless network connection.

There exist wireless networks mat charge users on a per byte basis. As pay by the byte wireless solutions become more prevalent and device management needs continue to grow meaning bandwidth requirements will also grow the ability to discriminate services that are required to run over given connection will be a growing need as well. There is a need in the art for a technique for controlling which services access wireless connections in order to reduce charges incurred on for example a pay per byte connection.

Exemplary embodiments include a device for controlling wireless network connection access. The device includes a processor for executing instructions and multiple network adapters for operatively connecting to multiple networks. The device includes a wireless network connection monitoring application for controlling access to the multiple networks via the processor and the monitoring application is configured to monitor the multiple network adapters. The device also includes a monitor file that has permissions for services to communicate on the multiple networks and the monitoring application allows or denies access to the multiple networks via the plurality of network adapters based on the permissions for the services in the monitor file.

Additional exemplary embodiments include a method for controlling wireless network connection access. The method includes initiating a wireless network connection monitoring application for controlling access to multiple networks where the monitoring application is configured to monitor multiple network adapters for operatively connecting to the multiple networks. The method includes a monitor file that receives permissions for services to communicate on the plurality of networks and the monitoring application allows or denies access to the multiple networks via the multiple network adapters based on the permissions for the services in the monitor file.

Further exemplary embodiments include a computer program product tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium for controlling wireless network connection access and the computer program product includes instructions for causing a processor to execute a method. The computer program product includes instructions for causing a computer to execute initiating a wireless network connection monitoring application for controlling access to a plurality of networks where the monitoring application is configured to monitor multiple network adapters for operatively connecting to the multiple networks. Also the computer program product includes instructions for causing a computer to execute receiving by a monitor file permissions for services to communicate on the plurality of networks and allowing or denying access by the monitoring application to the multiple networks via the multiple network adapters based on the permissions for the services in the monitor file.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the exemplary embodiments and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the exemplary embodiments together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

As known in the art the wireless device establishes a wireless connection with various networks using known protocols e.g. 802.11 . There are situations however where a user does not desire to incur wireless network charges for certain services. For example it would be desirable for an automatic update from MICROSOFT WINDOWS to be delivered over a less costly wired network connection rather than a wireless connection that incurs charges for units of use e.g. pay per byte . Exemplary embodiments allow the user to designate which services have access to the wireless connection.

The device executes a wireless network connection monitoring application . According to exemplary embodiments the wireless network connection monitoring application is initiated upon booting of the device and accesses a monitor file . The monitor file may include a designation of services executing on the device and the network permissions for each service. The monitor file may be generated based on user input as described in further detail herein.

The device also includes network adapters for making network connections. The wireless network connection monitoring application monitors the network adapters and checks for connections and disconnections according to exemplary embodiments. The wireless network connection monitoring application enables services to execute or disables services from executing on connections established via the network adapters based on network permissions for each service in the monitor file .

Based on the user input in the user interface of the wireless network connection monitoring application generates the monitor file . depicts an exemplary embodiment of the monitor file generated in XML format. It is understood that the monitor file may be in a variety of formats and embodiments of the invention are not limited to XML. The monitor file identifies services and the network connections that each service is permitted to access. According to exemplary embodiments one element of the monitor file is the name of the network adapter that will trigger connectivity events. Another element of the monitor file may be the name of the services that will be stopped and started based on the connectivity event. In exemplary embodiments the monitor file is accessed by the wireless network connection monitoring application to control access to network connections in response to the information in the monitor file .

Referring to operation of the wireless network connection monitoring application is described in accordance with exemplary embodiments. The wireless network connection monitoring application monitors the network adapters associated with the network connections identified in the monitor file at and determines whether network connections have been connected or disconnected at . If the wireless network connection monitoring application detects that a certain network adapter e.g. network adapters has been initiated the wireless network connection monitoring application determines which services should be enabled or disabled based on the monitor file at . For example when the wireless network connection monitoring application detects the SONY ERICSSON Wireless WAN Adapter e.g. the network adapters connecting to the wireless network e.g. at the wireless network connection monitoring application sends a command to disable the MS SMS Agent Most service at . Conversely if the SONY ERICSSON Wireless WAN Adapter is disconnected from the wireless network e.g. at the wireless network connection monitoring application sends a command to enable the MS SMS Agent Host service at . Accordingly appropriate services are enabled or disabled in accordance with the particular network connections in exemplary embodiments.

Exemplary embodiments provide the ability to prevent pre defined services from being active while pre defined network adapters are also active in pre defined combinations. This prevents per byte wireless network charges from being incurred unnecessarily.

Exemplary embodiments include systems methods and computer products for network service switching for applications requiring network access that tend to use network bandwidth when not in required use. In general the ability to prevent pre defined services from being active while pre defined network adapters are also active in predefined combinations is provided. As such if there are several applications that normally require adapter time or network bandwidth but are not currently in need of required adapter time or network bandwidth they are blocked from accessing the adapter for unnecessary operations. For example on a personal computer PC certain services do not run when certain conditions exist with associated network adapters.

It is therefore appreciated that issues associated with network connectivity are addressed. Although the embodiments described herein can handle a specific switching scenario they can also provide a general switching service for multiple applications over a single adapter. In exemplary implementation a system can determine when a specific adapter has established a network connection and then turn off services that may communicate across this connection. As such a device can be filtered based on network connection speeds and costs.

System further includes applications which can reside in a local memory of network access device a storage medium of network access device or a combination thereof. A first application can be a software application requiring access to network adapter . A second application can be a software application also requiring access to network adapter . As discussed above network access device may implement a network access service that requires a pay by the byte or all you can eat solution. Applications may periodically access network for various reasons that can create network traffic or chatter .

 Chatter can be defined as the network traffic generated in the background by a system service or function. Background traffic like this is usually but not always the result of a service that polls its service hosting server s for a check in looking for any additional tasks to perform or can be background data between an application and its hosting server. In these cases this chatter is considered non critical to current end user operations but may be critical to the long term functioning of that service or application and just needs to occur at a later time.

However one or both of applications may require legitimate access to network via network adapter . Legitimate access refers to an operation in which a user desires to have a given service or function communicate over the network and is willing to pay for the bytes transmitted in the case of a pay by the byte service or assume the bandwidth consumption in general. As such according to exemplary embodiments a third event driven network service switching utility switching application monitors network adapter and the traffic that is transmitted via network adapter . In accordance with exemplary embodiments switching application can turn off an application that is not in legitimate use when an application that is in legitimate use is accessing network adapter . For example first application may be an SMS Agent Host service that allows a service such as the Microsoft Systems Management Service to provide configuration management services and software updates to devices on network such as additional network access device . These services are preconfigured and therefore may generate network traffic that is undesired at a particular time such as when an application that is in legitimate use is accessing the network adapter . However network access is not always required but the SMS Agent Host may constantly try to access network adapter and therefore generate network traffic across the wireless connection that was paid for by the amount of bytes used but not required. SMS Agent Host therefore has a predetermined network access that activates when not always required by the user. Second application can be any other application in which the user desired to access network such as a browser. Switching application therefore determines when the predetermined network access by SMS Agent Host is connected and stops the service when not required or desired by the user such as when the second application is accessing the network adapter . When the user is finished with the network connection using second application and disconnects from the network switching application may automatically sense the adapter disconnect and start the preconfigured service of the SMS Agent Host without unnecessarily using the network adapter .

According to exemplary embodiments the switching application is an event driven network service switching utility application that is triggered by network interface specific events such as the connect or disconnect of a network interface such as wireless adapter . In other exemplary embodiments switching application can check for connect and disconnect events on a periodic basis based on a timer.

The switching application and related network switching services may be implemented as a single program executing on the network access device or may be separate physical components that interact via e.g. an application programming interface or other technique.

Further the examples discussed herein are meant to be non limiting and to assist in providing a better understanding of the details.

As described heretofore the exemplary embodiments can he provided in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The exemplary embodiments can also be provided in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. The exemplary embodiments can also be provided in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include various embodiments. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

