---

title: Option computation for tangible depreciating items
abstract: A system for computing option prices for tangible depreciating items is described. Describing information of the tangible depreciating item is determined. Historical sales data of sold tangible depreciating items from marketplaces are collected. A present resale value of the tangible depreciating item is computed based on the historical sales data. A depreciation rate of sold tangible depreciating items having similar attributes as the tangible depreciating item is extrapolated from the historical sales data. A predicted resale value of the tangible depreciating item is computed based on the computed present resale value and on the extrapolated depreciation rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08090642&OS=08090642&RS=08090642
owner: TechForward, Inc.
number: 08090642
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070216
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 774 535 filed on Feb. 17 2006.

This invention relates to the field of options computation and in particular to computing and selling options on tangible depreciating items.

Current methods of recouping the value of tangible depreciating items such as computers and electronic devices have limitations. Customers currently buy these items and subsequently want to recoup value from the items when they are done with them. One reason they might be done with a tangible depreciating item is that they want to upgrade to a new item of the same or similar type. This process can be expensive fraught with uncertainty and full of hassles.

If the customer does not sell their old item but rather disposes of it in a manner that does not provide monetary value then the upgrade process is seen as expensive. Some customers try to sell their items on a secondary market and use the value recouped from the old item to bring down the cost of their purchase of the new item. However prices received on secondary markets for used tangible depreciating items are difficult to predict and selling items on a secondary market can entail a lot of work that many people would like to avoid.

Current solutions to these problems include trade in programs which take some of the work out of recouping the value from an item when a person is ready to upgrade. However such a solution does not inform the person of the future trade in value at the time the item is originally sold to the person. Customers desire more certainty in the future trade in value of their items to understand their total cost of ownership for the item over various periods and minimize that total cost of ownership through item selection.

Currently there is no solution for locking in the future resale value of tangible depreciating items which would involve selling a put option or forward contract where the underlying asset is a tangible depreciating item. Exchange traded options and forwards are sold for underlying assets that are either non tangible or do not depreciate even though their prices may fluctuate. Pricing these options and forwards does not involve some key processes that are necessary for pricing options on tangible depreciating items. These key missing processes include predicting the item s future sale price predicting the rate of option exercise and accounting for costs related to offering the service.

Given the current demand for upgrading tangible depreciating items more easily affordably and frequently and the limitations in the prior approaches an approach for taking some of the uncertainty out of resale prices for these items is highly desirable. In particular an approach that allows for the customer to be assured of the future resale value of their depreciating goods at the time of original sale is highly desirable.

There is a further need for an approach for making the return of these items easy for the customer and the provider of the service through shipping and grading processes.

There is yet a further need for an approach for making the upgrade process for tangible depreciating items more convenient and flexible to consumers than conventional approaches.

There is a yet further need for an approach for aiding customers in selection of tangible depreciating items based on the items future resale values.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention include various operations which will be described below. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a machine readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signal e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the machine readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the communication medium connecting the computer systems.

At historical sales data are gathered from various sources e.g. online and offline auction marketplaces used goods marketplaces new goods marketplaces or internet auction sites . Historical sales data may include data on past sales of tangible depreciating items of the same type as the tangible depreciating item for which the buyback option is being computed. The data may include various attribute configurations. For example if a tangible depreciating item for which a buyback is being computed is a laptop the historical data may include data on sales of various laptops with various types of microprocessors various amounts of hard disk space etc. For each sale the data may include but is not limited to the sale price the sale date and information describing the item sold.

At statistical analysis is performed on the historical sales data. In accordance with one embodiment the statistical analysis is performed to determine a valuation pattern of sold tangible items based on historical sales data. A valuation pattern may includes past and future trends. Those of ordinary skills in the art will recognize that the statistical analysis may include methods commonly used such as hedonic analysis non linear regression and vector auto regression among others.

At description information about the particular tangible depreciating item for which the buyback option is being computed is received. For example if the item is a laptop the describing information may include its brand and model number. In addition or alternatively the describing information may be its configuration of attributes. The attributes for example with a laptop may include the size of it hard disk the type of microprocessor in its system etc.

At the predicted resale values are determined for various points and or periods of time in the future. Given the statistical analysis that was performed at and the describing information of the tangible depreciating item at the predicted resale values for the tangible depreciating item can be determined. One method for predicting the resale values is further described with respect to B and C.

The buyback pricing is determined at . The buyback pricing may include the purchase price of the option and the exercise price of the option. The purchase price of the option may include an upfront fee that a customer pays at a present time to secure the right to exchange his tangible depreciating item in the future. The exercise price of the option may include an amount paid to the customer in exchange for his tangible item according to a predetermined payout schedule as illustrated in . The computation of both the purchase price and exercise price is further described below.

At the historical sales data may be used to determine a depreciation rate curve or trend for the tangible depreciating item that describes comparative magnitudes of resale values for the item at various points in time both past and future as illustrated in . In accordance with one embodiment the past depreciation rate may be used to project and predict a future depreciation rate. The depreciation rate is not limited to a constant but may instead vary over time. One embodiment for the process for determining the depreciation rate is further described in .

At each group of sales is separated by time period e.g. day . The average sale price for the group is then computed over each of the time periods e.g. find the average price for the group of configurations on each historical day . The result will be a series of average prices over time for each grouped configuration.

At a base value is selected for each grouped configuration. Each of the average prices is divided by this base value to determine a series of percent values with respect to the selected base value over time. The base value may be for example the average price for an arbitrary chosen time period in the series. This series of values can be thought of as a depreciation curve or residual value curve since it delineates how the configurations belonging to the group have changed in value over time relative to the selected base value. The multiple series of residual values for the various grouped configurations are further grouped. This level of grouping should bring together series of residual values for configurations with similar depreciation rates.

At once grouped these series of values should be averaged at each time period e.g. day . For example if the tangible depreciating item is a laptop laptops with Intel Pentium M microchips may depreciate at the same rate regardless of brand hard disk size etc. This step is intended to smooth out data outliers and provide a representative depreciation curve for the class of items to which it applies.

At the depreciation curve for each class of items is projected into the future using commonly well known statistical projection methodology for example linear or exponential projection to determine the depreciation rate or curve. This rate may change over time. It may also be altered to take account of market intelligence relating predicted marketplace trends not visible in the historical data. For example an announcement of a new laptop microprocessor being released in the near future may affect resale values of laptops with existing microprocessors in a way that could not have been predicted by simply analyzing historical sales data. In this type of situation the depreciation rate or curve may have to be manually manipulated to take account of the approaching change in value not reflected in the statistical analysis.

Clients may be for example personal computers PCs mobile phones palm sized computing devices personal digital assistants PDAs etc. Clients are coupled to the buyback option server via the network which may be a public network e.g. Internet or a private network e.g. Ethernet or a local area Network LAN . A user may communicate information about a tangible depreciating item to buyback option server with clients .

The buyback option server may contain a buyback option engine for computing upfront fees and option pricing schemes based on input received from clients . Server may retrieve and store historical sales data from various sources online and offline. For example online sources may include auction marketplaces such as eBay. Offline sources may include conventional newspaper advertisements.

In one embodiment clients communicate with the buyback option server via a web server not shown . For example clients may host web browsers that communicate with the web server using HTTP to request information. The web server may then communicate with buyback option server to determine the pricing of a buyback option on the tangible depreciating item .

Historical sales data may be part of the buyback option server or it may reside externally e.g. on a database server . Server may be a single server or a cluster of servers.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processing device is configured to execute the processing logic for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a machine accessible storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processing device during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processing device also constituting machine accessible storage media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

The machine accessible storage medium may also be used to store the buyback option computation engine . Buyback option computation engine may also be stored in other sections of computer system such as static memory .

While the machine accessible storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine accessible storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine accessible storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine accessible storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

