---

title: Method and system for aggregating TV program information from different live TV feeds
abstract: A method for processing event information from a plurality of different live TV feeds comprises a plurality of operations. An operation is provided for receiving a plurality of different live TV feed data streams. Each one of the live TV feed data streams include program content and event information corresponding to the program content. An operation is provided for extracting the event information from each one of the live TV feed data streams and an operation is provided for aggregating the event information from all of the live TV feed data streams.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08561109&OS=08561109&RS=08561109
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08561109
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20070308
---
This patent application claims priority to co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 60 744 165 filed Apr. 3 2006 entitled Streaming of Live TV Feeds having a common applicant herewith and being incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The disclosures made herein relate generally to approaches for providing television programming information and more particularly to facilitating processing and aggregation of television programming information from different live TV feeds.

A live TV feed refers to a TV feed source whose content is available only once to a recipient. If the content is not recorded or otherwise saved the opportunity to watch it is lost. In this scenario all recipients must watch the content at the same time at a time set by the entity producing the live feed. For example watching the 6 o clock news only happens once a day. This is in contrast to VOD video on demand content where a recipient may request to watch the content at his her convenience and may be watched multiple times by different users at different times. For example ordering a movie from a cable or satellite company is using VOD content. An off the air TV feed sometimes also known as over the air refers to a source whose content is being broadcast typically over the air such as broadcast TV. In this case an antenna may be used to receive the content.

Conventionally program information for live TV feeds has been provided through a variety of approaches. One conventional program information solution includes a staff of people dedicated exclusively to gathering programming information for a number of live TV feeds and making such information available to service subscribers in the form of an Electronic Program Guide EPG via a TV channel e.g. The TV Guide Channel in the form of a printed program guide e.g. a book a newspaper etc via printed media outlets and or in the form of an on line website e.g. www.tvguide.com . Another conventional program information solution includes program information displayed upon switching to a new TV channel in a cable TV system e.g. Time Warner or satellite TV system e.g. DirecTV . Still another conventional program information solution includes a dedicated on screen EPG carried within and accessible from a respective live TV feed. Service providers such as for example DirecTV are able to show program information in a standard manner for all content that they offer because they have control over the information contained in the compressed transport stream of the live TV feed.

Various system implementations that allow service subscribers to view TV channels require sourcing such TV channels from a variety of different live TV feeds. Live TV feeds are defined herein to include a TV content signal comprising one or more TV channels and related programming information. Programming information for a channel includes but is not limited to channel name program title program start time program duration program description available program language s and program parental rating.

Streaming live TV feeds to mobile devices is one example of an application in which it is advantageous and or typical to offer streaming TV content from two or more different live TV feeds. A shortcoming associated with providing service subscribers with TV channels from a variety of different live TV feeds is the lack of an effective and efficient solution for providing such service subscribers with programming information for such TV channels. These different live TV feeds may be provided via satellite cable and or over the air. Due to the diverse number of possible sources there is no single resource for service provider specific programming information available. More specifically there is no current solution that provides for automated aggregation of program information dependent upon a prescribed group of live TV feeds being offered by a particular service provider. Some of the conventional program information solutions work well when a single service provider e.g. network has control over the content being provided via a single live TV feed but are limited in their effectiveness when TV channels are sourced from a variety of different live TV feeds. One reason for this is that conceivably different instances of streaming live TV feeds e.g. different customer markets geographic regions etc can each have a different set of live TV feed content.

Therefore a solution that provides for facilitating aggregation of television programming information from different network feed sources in a manner that overcomes drawbacks associated with conventional approaches for facilitating aggregation of television programming information from different network feed sources would be advantageous desirable and useful.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for the aggregation of program information from different live TV feeds dependent upon a collection of programming choices offered for being streamed to a client device from such different live TV feeds. Such live TV feeds can be received from different sources such as satellite cable and over the air. Each source of such live TV feed includes its own different resource for making event i.e. program information available to service subscribers. Advantageously embodiments of the present invention provide for aggregation of such event information thereby providing a singular resource for event information for program content provided by the plurality of different live TV feeds. In accordance with the present invention event information is gathered from different content providers. This information can be presented to the user or can be presented as a programming guide from which the user can choose a show to watch. Such an approach for delivering aggregated live TV feed event information for a plurality of different live TV feeds provides a convenient and easy way to enhance value in subscriber offerings. Event information that already exists in TV feeds is made use of. Aggregation of event information in accordance with the present invention allows a client device user to understand and navigate available programming content faster thereby enhancing the user s experience.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method for facilitating preparation and delivery of aggregated event information from a plurality of live TV feeds comprises a plurality of operations. An operation is provided for receiving a plurality of different live TV feed data streams. Each one of the live TV feed data streams include program content and event information corresponding to the program content. An operation is provided for extracting the event information from each one of the live TV feed data streams and an operation is provided for aggregating the event information from all of the live TV feed data streams.

In another embodiment of the present invention an integrated services module comprises an event information repository and an electronic program guide dataset. The event information repository contains event information associated with a respective one of a plurality of different live TV feeds. The electronic program guide dataset contains at least a portion of the event information and represents a displayable electronic program guide image. The portion of the event information contained within the electronic program guide dataset includes event information associated with at least two different ones of the live TV feeds.

In another embodiment of the present invention a system for facilitating preparation and delivery of aggregated event information from a plurality of live TV feeds comprises data stream processing instructions event information extraction instructions and event information aggregation instructions. The data stream processing instructions are configured for processing a plurality of different live TV feed data streams. Each one of the live TV feed data streams includes program content and event information corresponding to the program content. The event information extraction instructions are configured for extracting the event information from each one of the live TV feed data streams. The event information aggregation instructions are configured for aggregating the event information from the live TV feed data streams.

These and other objects embodiments advantages and or distinctions of the present invention will become readily apparent upon further review of the following specification associated drawings and appended claims.

Embodiments of the present invention provide event information as value added to the delivery e.g. streaming of live TV feeds. The event information which is sometimes also referred to as channel or program information is pre existent and obtained off the live TV network feeds. This information can be presented stand alone i.e. on an as requested per channel basis or as an Electronic Programming Guide showing information for a plurality of channels and or time periods.

The data stream receiving apparatus includes a satellite signal receiver an Integrated Receiver Decoder IRD a transport protocol converter . The IRD is coupled between the satellite signal receiver and the transport protocol converter thereby allowing for transmission of the live TV feed data streams from the signal receiver to the MPEG converter through the IRD . Preferably but not necessarily the live TV feed data streams are received by the satellite signal receiver in the form of RF signals. It is disclosed herein that one or more live TV feed data streams can be received via an internal distribution system at a carrier s site and or other suitable means for acquiring one or more live TV feed data streams. For example in other embodiment of the present invention the live TV feeds are provided via compressed or uncompressed video from cable satellite or off the air sources. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular type of live TV feed source.

The RF data streams are provided to the IRD for allowing the RF signal to be decoded to a MPEG 2 transport format. The MPEG 2 data streams which are in an Asynchronous Serial Interface ASI format are then provided to the transport protocol converter for converting the data streams from ASI format to Internet Protocol IP format for allowing MPEG 2 over IP transmission of the live TV feed data streams to the MMTs . ASI is a serial data transmission method that allows packet based transmission of compressed video such as MPEG 2 transport streams. Converting the data streams from ASI format to IP format includes packetizing the ASI input which can be performed using a third party system software such as that commercially available from Path 1 Network Technologies Inc. It is disclosed herein that the data stream receiving apparatus can be simplified if the IRD itself directly supports MPEG 2 over IP MPEG converter . In this case the transport protocol converter can be omitted and the IRD can transmit the data streams directly to the MMTs . IRDs that support IP and or ASI outputs are commercially available from vendors such as for example Scopus Video Networks Inc. and Novra Technologies Inc.

It is disclosed herein that the system advantageously utilizes a redundant group of MMTs because MMTs readily allow for control over of table extraction and on the payload of multimedia session announcements unlike other encoding solutions e.g. Envivio 4Caster Real Mobile Media Producer etc where such control is limited. Preferably and advantageously multicasting is used to distribute the live TV feed data streams to the MMTs . Multicasting advantageously allows an MMT to choose whether it wants to receive a stream. That is the multicast traffic is received only if the MMT belongs to the multicast group. The MMT must inform a router switch of an interconnecting IP network not specifically shown that it wishes to join a group by sending it a request. After the router switch receives the request the multicast traffic for that group starts being delivered to the MMT. The router switch periodically queries the MMT for membership to groups. It stops delivering the traffic when the MMT does not reply to its query or if the MMT wishes to leave the group. It is disclosed herein that most mid range Ethernet Switch products support Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP thus eliminating the need for a multicast router. The plurality of MMTs are implemented to provide redundancy and high availability in that one of the MMTs can take over the functions of a failed one of the MMTs .

Each MMT includes a decoder a plurality of encoders a table extraction module and a protocol translator . The table extraction module is coupled between the decoder and the protocol translator . The encoders are coupled in parallel between the decoder and the protocol translator .

The live TV feed data streams include audio video and system information. System information includes service information e.g. in the form of tables used by decoders to identify the appropriate packets that need to be decoded to allow a user to watch a TV program. Upon an MMT receiving the live TV feed data streams i.e. MPEG 2 transport streams on its IP interface the decoder determines the type of information being carried by each packet of each live TV feed data stream. In one embodiment such determination of information type being carried is based on a Program Identifier PID . The PID is the packet identifier that is carried in the header of all MPEG 2 packets. The PID is 13 bits long and is found in the second octet and third octet bits of the MPEG 2 transport header of each packet.

When the decoder determines that a packet carries service information through assessment of the PID of the packet such packet is allowed to pass to the table extraction module . More specifically the packet is placed in a buffer by the decoder and is taken off the buffer by the table extraction module . Packets identified as having video and or audio content i.e. program content are processed by the decoder and encoder s in a conventional manner which is not discussed in any additional detail herein.

Packets in a live TV feed data stream can carry any one of different types of information. Program Association Tables PAT carry information about the different programs available in the feed. A program refers to a group of elementary streams that comprise what viewers commonly refer to as a TV channel . Accordingly a live TV feed can carry several channels of programs. Program Mapping Tables PMT carry information about the elementary streams e.g. a video stream one or more audio streams e.g. English Spanish etc one or more data streams e.g. closed captioning ancillary information . Other tables carried by the live TV feed data streams include an Event Information Table EIT a Conditional Access Table a Network Information Table etc.

With respect to the present invention the Event Information Table EIT is of particular interest and usefulness. Table Extraction as discussed herein refers to the extraction collection and parsing of Digital Video Broadcasting DVB Service Information SI from live TV feeds. The EIT is one of the tables in the DVB SI which is identified as having PID 0x12. The EIT carries event i.e. program information including information on the current running program and on the next program. Providing this information is mandatory for DVB compliance. In addition there is the option of providing an EIT with information further into the future and for more than one channel. The EIT can be used to provide EIT information such as but not limited to program title program start time program duration program description program language and program parental rating etc. It can also include information relating to a classification of the program thus allowing programs to be classified into categories such as movie news game show etc.

TSReader is a transport stream analyzer for MPEG 2 systems which is commercially available freeware. TSReader supports DVB to the MPEG 2 specification. Table 1 below shows sample EIT information output. As can be appreciated from this sample output a great deal of information is readily available. The Extraction table module can perform a small amount of processing to choose the appropriate information from within the EIT and to format such chosen information before forwarding it for delivery or further manipulation. For example some information can be overlaid on a handset screen or can be gathered from several programs to prepare an EPG.

A conventionally configured MMT is capable of extracting some of the service information from a live TV feed data stream such as PAT information and PMT information to obtain the PID of the programs in the a live TV feed data stream. In accordance with the present invention the MMT code of the MMTs can be extended to extract the EIT information and other table information as needed.

Once a packet carrying EIT information is identified the table extraction module extracts the payload of the packet comprising EIT information. The EIT information is then parsed i.e. examined to determine if it contains new information which is information that has not yet been received by the table extraction module . Typically this parsing is done based on the version of the table. The information version is the same when the information in the EIT of a current instance is the same as that in a previous EIT instance and it is changed when the information EIT of a current instance changes with respect to a previous instance of the EIT. If the version is new then the payload is saved for further processing. Otherwise it is discarded.

DVB SI is transmitted as tables within the MPEG 2 TS multiplex. Accordingly an EIT can be too long to be carried by only one MPEG 2 packet resulting in an EIT often being partitioned in several sections to limit overhead. As such when the EIT is fragmented into several pieces each piece is carried in a separate MPEG 2 packet. Therefore the table extraction module further processes the payload to put together all the pieces of the corresponding EIT. It uses a sequence number to identify the different pieces of a segmented EIT.

Furthermore due to its size an EIT is generally not transmitted continuously but periodically. Therefore an EIT may not be instantly available and because an EIT is often transmitted in sections it needs to be extracted collected and parsed before it can be used. To address the need of having immediate access to the tables the table extraction module and or other component of the system e.g. the ISM can maintain a cache of the most recent EIT information and make such information available on request.

Although there are other solutions for extracting event information from an MPEG 2 data stream these other solutions typically require complex external subsystems that monitor the MPEG 2 data streams. These other systems have proven in the past to be very difficult to integrate with and are typically quite costly. They also have to duplicate functionality that already exists in an MMT for decoding the MPEG 2 data stream. An MMT based approach to extraction as disclosed herein is advantageous in that in many carrier systems it adds little to no capital expenditure costs and provides the required event information in a manner that can easily be integrated into a system deployment.

Once all the pieces of an EIT have been extracted the table extraction module passes the EIT to an SAP i.e. Session Announcement Protocol Announcer of the protocol translator which sends the EIT to an SAP listener of the ISM . Conventional packet video systems establish unicast sessions between the MMTs and subtending modules such as the SMs and ISM . However such a unicast transmission scheme does not scale well when the number of MMTs SMs and client devices grows significantly. Accordingly the system multicasts information e.g. the EIT from the MMTs to the SAP listener of the ISM and SAP lister of the SMs to enhance performance and reliability.

The EPG service module receives the EIT for a plurality of live TV feeds via the SAP listener of the ISM and prepares an EPG for all the live TV feeds. The EPG service module processes the EITs to extract information of interest e.g. the description of shows start time duration ratings etc and aggregates this information in a pre defined or user specified format. All or a portion of this aggregated information is the event information provided to the client devices .

It is disclosed herein that the event information can be provided to the client devices in a standalone mode or on demand. In the stand alone mode the ISM provides event information about specific content within a particular live TV feed data stream being sent to one or more of the client devices . For example when the client device tunes into a live TV feed data stream i.e. a channel event information about the program i.e. the show of the channel such as title running time rating etc is provided to the client device . The specific format in which the event information is presented to a client device may be pre defined or client specified. Examples of such formats include but are not limited to being overlaid on top of other content being at the bottom of the visual display of the client device crawling text across the visual display etc . In on demand mode the ISM provides event information about all of the content in the live TV feed data streams available to the client devices. Examples of such event information include but are not limited to information relating to current programs information relating to programs that will be available in the future and information relating to programs that were available in the past. This mode is similar to a program menu of a satellite or cable subscriber system. Examples of formats in which the EPG may be viewed include but are not limited to scroll thru listings full screen display picture in picture display etc. Examples of an EPG format include but are not limited to a format such as that known in a single network satellite TV program system e.g. DirecTV brand satellite TV program service a single network cable TV program system e.g. Time Warner brand cable TV program service and the like.

It is disclosed herein that aggregation of event information in accordance with the present invention is the same for standalone mode and EPG mode. Regardless of the specific mode of presentation the EPG service module of the ISM performs such aggregation. The EPG service module collects the event information received from the table extraction module and creates a database that contains detailed event information. On an as needed basis the event information in the database is updated as it is received from the table extraction module . For example event information in the database can be saved using a rolling window of time e.g. the size of the window for example a few hours or a couple of days is configurable by the operator thus discarding outdated event information as new event information becomes available.

The specific approach for providing the event information to the client devices depends on the specific mode of delivery for such event information. With respect to the on demand mode of delivery in one embodiment the client devices or an external web application on the client device can make an API call to the respective SM requesting EPG information. In response an Application Programming Interface API in the respective SM uses Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP based messages to communicate with the other modules such as for example the ISM and with client devices . The client devices can request EPG information for a range of time and channels using a SOAP API. With respect to the stand alone mode of delivery i.e. an additional program in a channel lineup in one embodiment a user uses the client device to tune into a pre determined channel where EPG information is sent. This is a data channel not an audio video channel.

Turning now to a discussion of the announcement mechanism between the MMTs the SMs and the ISM the SAP Announcer multicasts i.e. sends Session Description Protocol SDP information and the EIT to the SAP listener of the ISM and the SAP listener of each SM . The SAP listener of the ISM listens for SDP information and EIT information whereas the SAP listener of the SMs listens for only SDP information. As disclosed above the EPG service module uses EIT information e.g. information in the EIT to create an EPG that is available to the user.

Accordingly a SAP announcement as disclosed herein with respect to the SAP announcer includes SDP information and EIT information. A multicast group consisting of the SMs and the ISM will receive SAP announcements from the MMTs . The SDP information i.e. type application sdp includes the description of the available multicast sessions that all or a portion of the SMs can receive. The SMs use the SDP information to learn about the sessions available and to receive and process some of them for delivery to the client devices . The EPG service module does not use the SDP information.

In one embodiment SAP announcers and SAP listeners in accordance with the present invention are configured in accordance with Session Announcement Protocol SAP version 2 described in RFC 2974. However the present invention is not unnecessarily limited to a particular mechanism for communication information between various system components required for facilitating aggregation of EIT information. SAP version 2 as described in RFC 2974 is an experimental protocol used to advertise multicast multimedia sessions. The announcement contains all relevant session set up information to prospective participants. An SAP announcer in accordance with SAP version 2 periodically multicasts announcement packets to a well known multicast IP address and UDP port. A SAP listener in accordance with SAP version 2 listens on a well known SAP address and port for those announcements eventually learning of all the sessions being announced allowing those sessions to be joined. The SAP announcer is not aware of the presence or absence of any SAP listeners and SAP does not provide additional reliability over the standard best effort UDP IP semantics.

A skilled person will appreciate and it is disclosed herein that facilitating aggregation of event information in accordance with the present invention is not unnecessarily limited to one particular system to one particular arrangement of system component or to any particular system component. Accordingly shows an embodiment of a method for facilitating preparation and delivery of aggregated event information from a plurality of live TV feeds in accordance with the present invention and that is not limited in its implementation to a particular system arrangement of system component or system component. As such it is disclosed herein that methods in accordance with the present invention such as for example the method are capable of being carried out by any number of different systems component configurations.

Still referring to the method begins with an operation for receiving a plurality of different live TV feed data streams. Two or more of the live TV feed data streams are from different sources e.g. networks content distributors etc . Each one of the live TV feed data streams comprises a plurality of packets and each packet includes program content event information corresponding to the program content or both. It is disclosed herein that the packets are one example of data transmission unit that may carry content within the live TV feed data streams and that the present invention is not limited to a particular type of data transmission unit.

In conjunction with receiving the plurality of different live TV feed data streams an operation is performed for determining an information type of each packet in each one of the live TV feed data streams. In response to determining that a particular packet carries service information an operation is performed for buffering the packet for allowing it to be accessed at a late point in time. Buffering is defined herein to include storing or otherwise retaining the packet for allowing it to be subsequently accessed whereby other means of storage besides a buffer may be implemented. In response to determining that the particular packet does not carry service information the packet is discarded and the current instance of processing the particular packet ends. The operations for determining the information type of each packet in each one of the live TV feed data streams and for a packet being buffered containing service information being buffered is repeatedly e.g. sequentially performed for all packets of the live TV feed data streams. Thus a queue of packets is buffered i.e. retained for being accessed at a later point in time.

An operation is performed for accessing the next packet in the buffer followed by an operation for determining a type of content within that packet i.e. the next packet accessed . In response to determining that a particular packet carries event information e.g. an EIT an operation is performed for extracting that event information from the packet. In response to determining that the packet does not carry event information the packet is discarded and the current instance of processing the packet ends. In the case where the packet is determined to carry event information an operation is performed for determining a version of the event information. Such determination can be made by comparing information that designates a version of the event information in the packet to that of already extracted event information. In one embodiment a version identifier of previously extracted event information is stored in an event information repository along with the associated event information and the version of the event information in the current extraction instance is compared thereto. When the versions of the currently extracted and stored event information event are the same the event information of the current extraction instance is discarded and the current determination instance ends. When the versions of the currently extracted and stored event information event are different an operation is performed for updating the event information repository with the event information of the current extraction instance and the associated version information thereby replacing the corresponding stored event information and associated version information. Embodiments of maintaining the event information repository include replacing stored event information with corresponding newly extracted event information replacing stored version information with corresponding newly extracted version information and populating the event information repository with entirely new event information i.e. as opposed to updating information .

In some instances of event information the event information can be too long to be carried by only one packet resulting in the event information being partitioned in several sections to limit overhead. As such when the event information is fragmented into several pieces each piece is carried in a separate packet. In such instances an operation is performed for combining the fragment pieces of the event information to form unitised event information i.e. the event information . It is disclosed herein that the operation for combining the fragment pieces of the event information may be performed prior to or after the operation for determining the version of the event information.

Either upon demand by a subscriber or at predetermined time periods an operation is performed for aggregating all or a portion of the event information in the event information repository. In at least one embodiment of the present invention aggregating the event information includes preparing i.e. creating a dataset representing an image of an EPG i.e. an EPG dataset . After performing the operation for aggregating the event information an operation is performed for providing all or a portion of the aggregated event information to one or more client devices. In at least one embodiment of the present invention preparing the electronic program guide includes selecting event information dependent upon program content accessible in a current multicast session to which at least one of the client devices is a member. A wireless mobile device such as a cellular phone or personal digital assistant are examples of a client device and multicasting unicasting and broadcasting are examples of means for providing the aggregated event information to a client device. Optionally in addition to or in place of providing all or a portion of the aggregated event information to one or more client devices an operation can be performed for providing all or a portion of the aggregated event information to one or more applications that each provide for one or more media delivery services. A service provider or other suitable appropriate party may offer such media delivery services.

Referring now to instructions processible by a data processing device it will be understood from the disclosures made herein that methods processes and or operations adapted for carrying out event information processing and or aggregation functionality as disclosed herein are tangibly embodied by computer readable medium having instructions thereon that are configured for carrying out such functionality. In one specific embodiment the instructions are tangibly embodied for carrying out the method disclosed above. The instructions may be accessible by one or more data processing devices from a memory apparatus e.g. RAM ROM virtual memory hard drive memory etc from an apparatus readable by a drive unit of a data processing system e.g. a diskette a compact disk a tape cartridge etc or both. Accordingly embodiments of computer readable medium in accordance with the presenting invention include a compact disk a hard drive RAM or other type of storage apparatus that has imaged thereon a computer program i.e. instructions adapted for carrying out event information processing and or aggregation functionality in accordance with the present invention.

In the preceding detailed description reference has been made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the present invention may be practiced. These embodiments and certain variants thereof have been described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice embodiments of the present invention. It is to be understood that other suitable embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical chemical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of such inventive disclosures. To avoid unnecessary detail the description omits certain information known to those skilled in the art. The preceding detailed description is therefore not intended to be limited to the specific forms set forth herein but on the contrary it is intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as can be reasonably included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

