---

title: Traffic delay indication
abstract: A method of indicating traffic delays in a navigation system for planning a route of a vehicle is set out. The method includes the steps of receiving traffic information comprising position information of each one of a number of delay incidents, determining a position of the vehicle on a planned route, determining a relevance of each one of the delay incidents on the planned route, based on the position information of the respective delay incident and on the position of the vehicle, selecting at least one delay incident on the planned route, based on the determined relevance of the respective delay incident, and communicating information concerning the selected delay incident to a user. A computer program for performing the method is also set out.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751152&OS=08751152&RS=08751152
owner: TomTom International B.V.
number: 08751152
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20071010
---
The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e on each of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 879 523 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 549 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 553 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 577 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 599 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 529 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 601 filed Jan. 10 2007 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present application. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EARLY INSTRUCTION OUTPUT application Ser. No. 11 907 229 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING AND USING PROFILES application Ser. No. 11 907 230 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ENHANCED MAP DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 231 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD RELATING TO AN AUDIBLE RECOGNITION MODE application Ser. No. 11 907 232 filed on even date herewith NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING POINTS OF INTEREST application Ser. No. 11 907 233 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR FUEL PRICING DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 234 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR INFORMATIONAL SCREEN DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 235 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DEALING WITH LIMITED ACCESS ROADS application Ser. No. 11 907 243 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR TRAVEL WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 244 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DRIVING BREAK WARNING application Ser. No. 11 907 227 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAY OF POSITION IN TEXT READIBLE FORM application Ser. No. 11 907 241 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EMERGENCY SERVICE ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 228 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING REGIONAL TRAVEL INFORMATION IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 240 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING SPECIAL CHARACTERS IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 239 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A PERSONAL AREA NETWORK application Ser. No. 11 907 238 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A LOCATION MESSAGE application Ser. No. 11 907 237 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONSERVING POWER application Ser. No. 11 907 236 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL application Ser. No 11 907 253 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL RESOURCE application Ser. No. 11 907 252 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR QUICK OPTION ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 251 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAYING A RICH CONTENT DOCUMENT application Ser. No. 11 907 257 filed on even date herewith.

This invention relates to a method of indicating traffic delays in a navigation system for planning a route of a vehicle the method comprising receiving traffic information comprising position information of each one of a number of delay incidents determining a position of the vehicle on a planned route and communicating information concerning the delay incidents to a user.

This invention further relates to a computer program product and a navigation system for performing the method of indicating traffic delays.

Nowadays many motorists use in car navigation systems for planning routes. Using digital maps and location information of the user e.g. based on GPS signals received by a GPS receiver navigation systems calculate the shortest fastest or otherwise optimal route to a destination. One of the problems with routes planned by navigation systems is that traffic jams road work and other delay incidents may drastically increase the time needed for reaching the destination. Some navigation systems e.g. provided by TomTom www.tomtom.com are able to receive traffic information concerning the planned route and adapt the planned route in such a way that large delays are avoided. E.g. icons indicating delay incidents are shown on a map. A user may use the user interface of the navigation system to obtain further information about the delay incidents such as the positions of the beginning or end of the delay incident an expected delay time caused by the delay incident or a cause of the delay incident. Adaptations to the planned route may be applied automatically after approval by the user or upon a specific user request.

It is a problem of the known traffic information services that icons on a map are only visible when the location of the corresponding delay incident is on screen. Typically this is only the case when the user approaches the delay incident. Relevant delay incidents that are further away may be invisible for the user. When the icon becomes visible it may be too late to change the route and avoid the delay.

It is an object of the invention to provide a more intuitive and user friendly way of informing the user about delays to be expected. According to a first aspect of the invention this object is achieved by providing a method of indicating traffic delays in a navigation system for planning a route of a vehicle the method comprising receiving traffic information comprising position information of each one of a number of delay incidents determining a position of the vehicle on a planned route determining a relevance of each one of the delay incidents on the planned route based on the position information of the respective delay incident and on the position of the vehicle selecting at least one delay incident on the planned route based on the determined relevance of the respective delay incident and communicating information concerning the selected delay incident to a user.

By communicating only the most relevant delay incident s to the user it becomes much easier to communicate the obtained information to the user in such a way that it is easily understandable for the user without interfering too much with the providing of the usual route information. For example the selected delay incident s may be read out loud by a text to speech converter or may be displayed as text graphics or a combination of both on a relatively small sub section of the display. The inventors have realized that the relevance of the delay incidents is mainly dependent on the position information of the incidents. A traffic jam situated 100 km from a current position is less relevant than another traffic jam that is only 10 km away.

In an embodiment of the method according to the invention the traffic information further comprises an expected delay caused by each one of the number of delay incidents and the determining of the relevance of each one of the delay incidents on the planned route is further based on the expected delay caused by the respective delay incident. A one hour delay starting at 20 kilometers from the current position may be much more relevant than a 2 minutes delay that is only 2 kilometers away.

Preferably the traffic information the position of the vehicle and the relevance of each one of the number of delay incidents are updated periodically. After each update new relevant delay incidents and changes to previously communicated delay incidents are communicated to the user. Furthermore the system may remove information concerning delay incidents with a decreased relevance from the display screen.

In an embodiment of the method according to the invention the method further comprises determining a total expected delay of all delay incidents on the planned route together and communicating the total expected delay to the user. An indication of the total amount of delay to be expected gives the user a good estimate of the duration of the delay incidents that are not selected for communication and the expected time of arrival at the destination.

Preferably the communicating of the total expected delay comprises providing an audible warning message when the delay situation significantly changes. Traffic information may be updated very often or even almost continuously. The user should however keep an eye on the road and should not have to look at the screen of the navigation all the time to check whether something has changed in the traffic situation. If the user receives an audible message each time an interesting change or update of the traffic situation is observed continuously watching the display is not required.

According to a second aspect of the invention a computer program product is provided which program is operative to cause a processor to perform the method according to the invention.

According to a third aspect of the invention a navigator system is provided for planning a route of a vehicle the system comprising a receiver for receiving traffic information comprising position information of each one of a number of delay incidents a memory for storing the received traffic information a processor. The processor is arranged for determining a position of the vehicle on a planned route determining a relevance of each one of the delay incidents on the planned route based on the position information of the respective delay incident and on the position of the vehicle and selecting at least one delay incident on the planned route based on the determined relevance of the respective delay incident. The system further comprises an output for communicating information concerning the selected delay incident to a user.

In a position determining step the position of the vehicle on the planned route is determined. Generally a navigation device comprises a GPS sensor for determining a current position of the navigation device . Other suitable techniques may be used as an alternative or additionally e.g. using information derived from cell based wireless communication systems such as GSM UMTS GPRS WiFi or WiMAX.

Then in relevance determining step the relevance of each one of the delay incidents on the planned route. All traffic information received in the receiving step is filtered in order to select the delay incidents that are on the planned routes. For all delay incidents on the planned route a relevance value is calculated. Amongst others the relevance value is based on the current vehicle position and position information of the delay incident. If e.g. the delay incident is only a few kilometers away from the current vehicle position the incident is very relevant and will obtain a high relevance value. If the delay incident is 200 kilometers away it may already have been disappeared once the vehicle reaches the position of the delay incident. Such an incident thus is much less relevant and will get a lower relevance value. The relevance value may further based on an expected delay caused by the delay incident. A one hour delay is more relevant than a 3 minutes delay. Preferably the relevance value is based on a combination of its position and its associated expected delay. For example a 3 minutes delay that is a few kilometers away may be more relevant than a 10 minutes delay in about 200 kilometers and a one hour delay that is 20 kilometers away may be more important than a 3 minutes delay around the next corner.

Examples of other criteria that may influence the relevance value are delay type e.g. road block accident road work slow moving traffic rush hour expected delay trend e.g. growing or shrinking or other additional information such as a moment of last update of the information. Preferably all criteria work together. For example a one hour delay caused by a rush hour traffic jam that is 300 km away may not be very relevant. However a tunnel that has been closed for a few days and is 500 km away is a relevant delay incident.

After determining the relevance values of all delay incidents on the route one or more delay incidents are selected for communicating to the user in selection step . Only the selected incidents are communicated to the user in communication step . When only informing the user about the most relevant delay incidents the user will not be annoyed by less relevant information. Communicating delay incidents may be performed by showing graphics or text on the display and or by providing the information as spoken text via a speaker . When only displaying the most relevant incidents a larger part of the display remains available for displaying maps route information and other information.

In an embodiment of the method according to the invention selection of delay incidents depends on a combination of the distance to and delay caused by the delay incident. The most relevant delay incidents are nearby and cause a long delay. The least relevant delay incidents are far away and cause a short delay. For each possible incident distance there is may be minimum delay that makes the incident relevant. On the other hand for each possible delay there may be a maximum distance making the delay incident relevant. A selection algorithm may e.g. select delay incidents for communicating to the user in the following manner 

If there is only one incident on the route it is never hidden an incident is hidden when its relevance value is below a predetermined limit .

Optionally the length of the traffic bar may be limited to only represent the area for which traffic information is available and parts of the route for which traffic information is not available may not be shown. In the event that the traffic information is not up to date anymore e.g. because of connection problems the traffic bar may be greyed out i.e. shown in a different color.

A total expected delay indicator at the top of the traffic bar indicates the total delay to be expected. The fact that the total expected delay indicator is put next to the finish icon will make it more obvious to the user that it deals with a total delay since they are likely to put a connection between the end of the route and the total delay they encountered along this route. This will increase usability. An advantage of the plus sign shown in the total expected delay icon is put in front of the number to indicate that this number indicates the total delay and not a delay of one of the incidents on the route. It is to be noted that the total expected delay icon may of course also be embodied in alternative ways. The total delay is the sum of the expected delays of all delay incidents on the route. In the total delay is 13 minutes. The only incident selected for display causes a 6 minutes delay. Other delay incidents that are further away and or cause less delay are not selected for display. The delay incidents that are not shown together cause a delay of 7 minutes

The traffic information is updated periodically which may cause the displayed information to be changed. Preferably a warning message is provided if the total expected delay is changed more than a predetermined amount of time. For example an increase of the total expected delay to 14 minutes will not cause a warning message but when the total expected delay becomes more than 18 minutes a warning message is provided. Preferably the warning message is provided as an audible signal making it unnecessary for the user to repeatedly check the display. The user may then keep his eyes on the road which improves safety. Most preferably the warning message is provided using text to speech conversion and comprises the updated total expected delay. This message may also contain a question for the user if he wishes to optimize the route. If the device supports voice recognition the user may answer the question without needing to let go the steering wheel.

In not only the most relevant but also some other relevant delay incidents are shown. The first relevant delay incident is similar to the most relevant delay incident in . Again the incident distance indicator shows the distance between the vehicle and the first relevant incident . Two other relevant delay incident are also selected for display on the traffic bar . The second relevant delay incident is also a traffic jam. The third delay incident is a road narrowing because of road work. In this example the specific delays expected for these further incidents is not shown because it is determined to be less relevant. However in an alternative embodiment the expected delays for these incidents may also be shown.

It will be appreciated that the invention also extends to computer programs particularly computer programs on or in a carrier adapted for putting the invention into practice. The program may be in the form of source code object code a code intermediate source and object code such as partially compiled form or in any other form suitable for use in the implementation of the method according to the invention. It will also be appreciated that such a program may have many different architectural designs. For example a program code implementing the functionality of the method or system according to the invention may be subdivided into one or more subroutines. Many different ways to distribute the functionality among these subroutines will be apparent to the skilled person. The subroutines may be stored together in one executable file to form a self contained program. Such an executable file may comprise computer executable instructions for example processor instructions and or interpreter instructions e.g. Java interpreter instructions . Alternatively one or more or all of the subroutines may be stored in at least one external library file and linked with a main program either statically or dynamically e.g. at run time. The main program contains at least one call to at least one of the subroutines. Also the subroutines may comprise function calls to each other. An embodiment relating to a computer program product comprises computer executable instructions corresponding to each of the processing steps of at least one of the methods set forth. These instructions may be subdivided into subroutines and or be stored in one or more files that may be linked statically or dynamically. Another embodiment relating to a computer program product comprises computer executable instructions corresponding to each of the means of at least one of the systems and or products set forth. These instructions may be subdivided into subroutines and or be stored in one or more files that may be linked statically or dynamically.

The carrier of a computer program may be any entity or device capable of carrying the program. For example the carrier may include a storage medium such as a ROM for example a CD ROM or a semiconductor ROM or a magnetic recording medium for example a floppy disc or hard disk. Further the carrier may be a transmissible carrier such as an electrical or optical signal which may be conveyed via electrical or optical cable or by radio or other means. When the program is embodied in such a signal the carrier may be constituted by such cable or other device or means. Alternatively the carrier may be an integrated circuit in which the program is embedded the integrated circuit being adapted for performing or for use in the performance of the relevant method.

It should be noted that the above mentioned embodiments illustrate rather than limit the invention and that those skilled in the art will be able to design many alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In the claims any reference signs placed between parentheses shall not be construed as limiting the claim. Use of the verb comprise and its conjugations does not exclude the presence of elements or steps other than those stated in a claim. The article a or an preceding an element does not exclude the presence of a plurality of such elements. The invention may be implemented by means of hardware comprising several distinct elements and by means of a suitably programmed computer. In the device claim enumerating several means several of these means may be embodied by one and the same item of hardware. The mere fact that certain measures are recited in mutually different dependent claims does not indicate that a combination of these measures cannot be used to advantage.

