---

title: Digital media metadata management
abstract: Network-side and client-side systems and techniques for managing metadata items describing digital media content available from a number of digital media content sources are described. Disparate metadata items are collected and transcribed based on a common format. The common format facilitates computerized cataloging, searching, and presentation of relevant metadata and/or digital content via a wide variety of client-side devices. The common format includes: a portion for storing descriptive data derived from the original metadata items; a portion for storing data specific to the digital media content source supplying the original metadata; and a services specifier portion used for accessing specific digital media content. The common format may be used to identify relationships between transcribed items of metadata based on virtually unlimited selection criteria, and to facilitate the creation and presentation to users of data sets of related metadata and/or digital media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08166076&OS=08166076&RS=08166076
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08166076
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070308
---
Providers of digital media content for example video audio images graphics documents spreadsheets and multimedia content use metadata to describe available digital media content to potential recipients. Metadata is any descriptive or identifying information in computer processable form that is associated with an item of digital media content.

Commercial digital media providers often supply metadata to consumers using proprietary formats or protocols. In some cases consumers need special purpose electronic devices for receiving the metadata. For example broadcast or downloadable digital media content may be described in catalogs or program guides published by particular media service providers via various communication networks such as cable networks satellite communication networks radio frequency networks and the Internet.

Non commercial digital media content for example personal media content such as photos music videos playlists and the like is frequently serendipitously described by creators using formats or protocols as varied as the manners in which the media content may be created or published.

It is desirable to collect and manage metadata that describes digital media content available from a variety of sources and to represent such metadata in a manner that allows people using a wide variety of general purpose electronic devices to discover and access relevant metadata and associated digital media content while at the same time preserving the monetary opportunities available to commercial digital media providers.

Aspects of managing metadata items that describe digital media content are described herein. Disparate items of time based and non time based metadata from a number of digital media content sources are identified and collected. The disparate metadata items are transcribed to a common format which in one portion includes a common schema for the metadata items. The common schema is used to facilitate the computerized cataloging discovery searching and presentation of relevant metadata and or digital media content. Relevant metadata and or digital media content can be accessed via a variety of network side or client side environments to provide a personal experience to a user. In addition the common format provides information to enable potentially richer and proprietary access to the content and its associated metadata by contacting the digital media content source directly.

Using the common schema relationships between transcribed items of metadata and corresponding digital media content are identified and data sets are formed. Data sets are built and saved or established on the fly based on virtually unlimited metadata selection criteria and combinations thereof such as user information client side or server side operating environment characteristics or capabilities business rules temporal references content related information advertising criteria and the like which may be predetermined or determined dynamically. A unified catalog of transcribed metadata items is optionally formed. Data sets may be stored in a single computer or using distributed computing techniques and may be stored in client side or network side electronic memories such as temporary memories for example cache memories or permanent memories for unified presentation to and navigation by a user.

A network side metadata management system a Web service for example employs a number of protocol adapters interfaces for communicating with specific particular digital media content sources and specific types of client side devices. Such communication may be initiated by the metadata management system or a particular source and data push or pull techniques may be employed. Client side metadata management systems may be thin clients such as Web browsers or rich clients.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form. The concepts are further described in the Detailed Description section. Elements or steps other than those described in this Summary are possible and no element or step is necessarily required. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

Network side and client side operating environments implement systems and techniques for managing metadata items that describe digital media content. On the network side a metadata management system uses pluggable protocol adapters to communicate with different digital media content sources to collect transcribe and organize and update collections of metadata items describing available digital media content. Transcribing of metadata items is based on a common format.

The common format includes three portions a first portion common to all digital media content sources which is used to store descriptive data such as text images time tags hyperlinks to related information and the like derived from the metadata items collected from each of the digital media content sources using a common schema a second portion which is used to store data specific to a particular digital media content source from which the descriptive data stored in the first portion was derived and an optional third portion which is a service specifier used for identifying accessing additional services associated with specific digital media content from the digital media content source indicated in the second portion.

The common schema is used to identify relationships between transcribed items of metadata rules may also be specified via the common schema to aid it identifying creating such relationships and to facilitate the creation of data sets of related metadata and or digital media content. A single unified catalog of transcribed metadata items may or may not be formed. Data sets and subsets thereof are stored in client side or network side temporary or permanent memories for example cache memories and provide bases for personal media experiences. Data sets are established based on virtually unlimited metadata selection criteria predetermined or dynamically determined such as user information client side or server side operating environment characteristics or capabilities business rules temporal references content related information advertising criteria and the like. The data sets are used to provide personal media experiences to users via which users can browse and access metadata items and corresponding digital media content in uniform and predictable ways. Alternate embodiments may use data sets to optimize performance for particular network or client device characteristics. In addition data sets may be used by digital content aggregators to make packaged offerings available to clients. Other methods or uses of datasets where the metadata management system is used as an aggregation point are possible.

Network side and or client side metadata management systems are configured to support the use of various interfaces to accommodate the presentation of metadata items in particular data sets to users of different types of client side devices. For example certain interfaces may implement additional metadata transcribing parsing compression caching encryption or transforming to facilitate metadata representation in a broad class of client side devices of varying capabilities.

Turning to the drawings where like numerals designate like components is a simplified block diagram of an architecture that includes a metadata management system MMS . MMS which is discussed in further detail in connection with arranges for the collection transcription organization distribution and presentation of metadata items associated with digital media content that is available for distribution from a particular digital media content source via a particular network and or communication protocol .

Aspects of MMS may be implemented within one or more network side operating environments one shown within networks such as network based devices or software applications and one or more client side operating environments 1 N client side operating environments which are responsive to 1 N users respectively are shown such as personal electronic devices fixed purpose networked devices set top box or software applications running on general or special fixed purpose computers. Examples of network based software applications are Web services hosted by various entities within networks discussed further below . Examples of client based software applications include but are not limited to Web browsers and rich clients. Network and client side operating environments are also discussed further below in connection with .

Collectively networks represent any existing or future public or private wired or wireless wide area or local area packet switched or circuit switched one way or two way digital data transmission infrastructures or technologies. Exemplary networks include the Internet managed wide area networks cellular networks satellite networks fiber optic networks co axial cable networks hybrid networks copper wire networks and over the air broadcasting networks such as television radio and datacasting networks are some examples of managed wide area networks and local area networks for example wireless local area networks and personal area networks .

Personal electronic devices include any portable or non portable electronic devices that are configured to receive metadata items transcribed via MMS and or digital media content via one or more networks communication protocols or techniques . Examples of personal electronic devices include but are not limited to mobile phones personal digital assistants personal computers media players televisions set top boxes hard drive storage devices video cameras DVD players cable modems local media gateways and devices temporarily or permanently mounted in transportation equipment such as planes or trains or wheeled vehicles. Examples of communication protocols or techniques include but are not limited to peer to peer communication tools and techniques Ethernet IP Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth General Packet Radio Service GPRS Evolution Data Only EV DO Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS proprietary techniques or protocols datacasting High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE Digital Video Broadcasting Handheld DVB H and digital audio broadcasting DAB .

Metadata items represent any descriptive or identifying information in computer processable form that is associated with particular digital media content for example digital media objects available for distribution via from a particular digital media content source . Examples of metadata items include but are not limited to title information artist information program content information such as starting and ending times and dates for broadcast program content expiration date information hyperlinks to websites file size information format information photographs graphics descriptive text and the like.

Digital media objects that are described by metadata items are composed of commercial or non commercial media samples such as video samples audio samples images graphics text multimedia samples document samples spreadsheet samples and data. Examples of commercial digital media objects are broadcast or downloadable video files such as television programs movies and video games audio files such as music image files graphics files text files spreadsheets documents multimedia files and data files such as playlists. Examples of non commercial digital media objects are photos music videos playlists documents spreadsheets and the like created by users of personal electronic device and uploaded to Web sites or available for peer to peer distribution.

Metadata items and digital media objects are generally stored on network accessible computer readable media computer readable media are discussed in connection with and may exist any format or protocol or combination thereof such as various text formats document formats spreadsheet formats portable network graphics PNG joint photographic experts group JPEG moving picture experts group MPEG multiple image network graphics MNG hypertext markup language HTML Adobe Acrobat PDF extensible HTML XHTML MP3 WAV or Microsoft Windows Media player formats such as WMA WMV or ASF.

Digital media content sources are any wireless or wired electronic devices or systems or any physical or logical element of such devices or systems operated by commercial or non commercial entities which distribute digital media content and metadata items via one or more networks I for example cable networks satellite communication networks radio frequency networks and the Internet . Examples of digital media content sources include but are not limited to television programming providers movie providers podcasters music service providers users of wireless enabled personal communication devices and the like. It is common for sources to independently describe and present available digital media content using a variety of catalogs program guides and the like that a user learns to navigate independently.

Digital media content sources may use various formats communication protocols or techniques to provide encoding and or transport for metadata items and digital media content via networks . It will be appreciated that metadata items and digital media content may be distributed independently for example a data clearinghouse may distribute metadata items from a number of services while digital media objects may come from multiple other sources . Often such formats communication protocols or techniques are proprietary or source specific. Examples of some higher level protocols or techniques include but are not limited to Internet protocols mobile data transmission protocols cable transmission protocols over the air broadcasting protocols and satellite transmission protocols.

It is not uncommon for users to obtain digital media content from multiple sources. Sometimes the same digital media content is provided by different sources or by the same source over different networks. Sources have not collaboratively adopted a single standard for providing media services or metadata to users the manner of delivery as well as the structure and formatting of both digital media content and metadata are generally incompatible between sources.

Accordingly it is desirable to use MMS to collect and manage metadata items that describe digital media content available from a variety of sources and to represent organize and recognize add associations between such metadata in a manner that allows people using a wide variety of client side operating environments to uniformly discover select and access relevant metadata and associated digital media content.

With continuing reference to is a simplified functional block diagram of MMS which is generally responsible for arranging for the collection of metadata items having disparate sources and formats transcribing the collected metadata items using a common schema using the common schema to leverage associations between the transcribed metadata items in various ways to provide personal media experiences to users and creating detecting new associations between collected metadata items. It will be appreciated that a wide variety of features functions and experiences may be created using aspects of the systems and techniques described herein.

As shown MMS includes protocol adapters interfaces which further include source protocol adapters interfaces having metadata transformation managers utilizing a common format and client protocol adapters interfaces a metadata aggregation engine which utilizes metadata selection criteria for creating data sets and temporary or permanent data set repository ies for storing data sets including an optional unified catalog and subsets . Alternate embodiments of MMS may include digital content transformation managers in addition to metadata transformation managers to enable distribution of digital media content using a common set of formats and protocols.

In general design choices and or operating environments dictate how and whether specific functions of MMS are implemented. Such functions may be implemented using hardware software firmware or combinations thereof.

Source protocol adapters interfaces define the way in which MMS implemented in network side environment communicates with a particular digital media content source to collect metadata items associated with digital media content available from the particular media content source. In one possible implementation multiple pluggable protocol adapters are defined. Each adapter is configured to connect to a specific digital media content source using a predetermined protocol for the purpose of collecting metadata items therefrom. Such communication may be initiated by MMS or a particular source and data push or pull techniques may be employed. In an alternate embodiment a specific protocol adapter is defined that is generally supported by all digital media content sources to collect metadata items . While advantageous from a simplicity perspective the single protocol model does not account for the large variation of protocols available today.

Metadata transformation managers use information about the format s of metadata items received from a particular source to parse the format s and to transcribe the metadata items in accordance with common format common format is discussed in detail in connection with generating transcribed metadata items . Transformation managers are generally but not necessarily tightly bound to the source protocols adapters interfaces in such a way that metadata may be retrieved from digital media content sources using source specific methods. Additional rules may exist in transformation managers to synthesize metadata items according to the common schema from one or more custom metadata items available from digital media content sources . In one scenario data obtained from original metadata items may be inserted into a field of the common schema. In another scenario additional computer usable information may be generated based on data obtained from the original metadata items and specified via the common schema. In one example transformation managers may generate additional tags and or rules that aid in determining how metadata items are related and create new associations between metadata items for example different metadata may be used to describe the same digital media content and rules ensure that the relationship between the disparate metadata items is identified . In another example intelligent matching and rules therefor may be performed based on information knowledge obtained from operation of MMS . Source protocol adapters interfaces may pre collect metadata items and store transcribed metadata items using aspects of data set repository for example or may collect and transcribe metadata on the fly. 

Client protocol adapters interfaces define the way in which MMS implemented in a network side operating environment or client side operating environment communicates with a particular client side operating environment and or user . Client protocol adapters interfaces for example may attach to common format discussed further below in connection with and expose different interfaces having presentation tools controls and connectivity features that define the way operating environments or users interact with or receive data from MMS .

Different client protocol adapters interfaces may be defined for different purposes. For example interfaces may be provided for use with personal electronic devices having various data communication capabilities to enable discovery enumeration and connection to MMS in network side operating environment . For devices that are not capable of complex data communication or storage such as disc less devices data transmission and receipt may be handled using data chunks of relatively small size such as 64 Kb via well defined protocols such as HTTP and RTSP. For devices with richer capabilities protocols such as Simple Object Access Protocols SOAP or REST protocols may be employed using principles of Web service architectures. Other protocols public or proprietary may also be used. Interfaces can also implement additional metadata transformation parsing compressing caching encryption or formatting to facilitate metadata presentation in a broad class of client devices of varying capabilities. Interfaces may also receive and evaluate user input information for various purposes such as to ascertain metadata selection criteria discussed further below in connection with metadata aggregation engine or to request access to digital media content associated with transcribed metadata items . Still further interfaces facilitate presentation of search results to users. Generally client protocol adapters interfaces would benefit from specific well defined protocols to be used by MMS and or proxy servers with which devices will communicate rather than supporting the broad range of protocols interfaces already in use today. By placing such a feature on client side operating environments a wider range or varying types and configurations of devices may be supported.

Metadata aggregation engine utilizes various metadata selection criteria for leveraging associations between transcribed metadata items to establish and provide access to data sets . Data sets are groups of transcribed metadata . Data sets may be pre formed or formed on the fly. Data sets are stored in data set repository ies discussed further below . One type of data set is a subset of transcribed metadata items . Subsets of transcribed data items include transcribed data items that meet one or more metadata selection criteria . Another type of data set is a unified catalog which includes substantially all transcribed metadata items . Aspects of metadata aggregation engine may be hosted within or on the edge of one or more networks or client side operating environments.

Data sets are generally searchable using standard search algorithms based on user input or automatic queries derived from metadata selection criteria . Because subsets generally have considerably less data than unified catalog and because searchable information is organized correlated in accordance with common format efficient accurate searching and data caching are possible. Because architecture is flexible various functions such as searching data sets and presenting search results can be performed using network side processing client side processing or a combination thereof. For example a Web server may provide access to data sets via normal Web based protocols such as HTTP and XML or a rich client can perform complex searches and presentation of data sets using SQL queries or supported Web Services.

The associations formed by metadata aggregation engine between transcribed metadata items to create data sets may be internal that is based on information related to the common format or transcribed metadata items or external. Metadata items may be pre collected and organized data sets based on predetermined metadata selection criteria or metadata items may be collected and organized on the fly based on metadata selection criteria input provided by specific users .

Virtually unlimited metadata selection criteria and combinations thereof are possible. Metadata selection criteria may be received from users pre programmed into MMS in any operating environment or received from third parties such as digital media content sources and or protocols adapters . Metadata selection criteria may be predetermined or may be dynamically created. Metadata selection criteria may also include expressions involving logical references to variables. Boolean operands such as AND OR and NOT along with other operands or types thereof may be used to define such expressions. Inferences can also be made by inspecting individual metadata items to create intelligent selection criteria. Generally metadata selection criteria are used in an automatic way instead of being programmed via human directed programming although human programmed subsets are also possible.

Metadata selection criteria provide the ability to create common popular data sets based on device capabilities which provide for efficient data storage and faster data access. Dynamic data sets based on popularity indicators can also improve access time. Certain guide centric data sets enable access to data that bridges multiple sources for example information about Web based content may be mixed with information about cable television programming and users can pick and choose between the two types of information content . Some specific types of metadata selection criteria include but are not limited to information about users such as user preferences age gender geographic location information collected based on previous activities of the user with respect to MMS or other services electronic affiliations with other people or services as determined by user communities buddy lists or service subscriptions client side operating environment characteristics or capabilities business rules such as rules specifying when metadata items should be collected from sources or when metadata items expire or bundling rules provided by sources or other service providers such as advertisers temporal references such as times dates or time zone data content related information such as media type parental control ratings presentation formats or quality price promotions genre source titles artists release dates times and the like and advertising criteria.

Some examples of data sets that may be formed via use of metadata selection criteria include but are not limited to a net gen viewing guide targeting young audiences with digital media content from certain sources popular to such audiences user specific data sets such as sports specific data sets high definition content guides sortable by availability times and prices broadcast television content available for Internet download from various sources digital media content that received favorable user comments on blogs or Web sites soliciting user opinions user preferred broadcast content not already viewed by a particular user top news stories in a particular week or other timeframe additional information available from third parties such as advertisers or other content providers such as movie theaters talk shows etc. that relates to certain digital media content such as movies actors etc. and broadcast content available from an alternative source such as an on demand service . A further example of another type of data set is a data set of transcribed metadata associated with a particular electronic device or type thereof such as a product or a part aspect of a product like a phone or a video card . In this case the sources of the original metadata items are virtually unlimited sources may include the particular device or device manufacturer suppliers of products that interoperate with or on the device third party Web sites consumers and the like. The original metadata items are collected and aggregated in accordance with the common schema and the data set of transcribed metadata describes the electronic device. Any desired aspects of the device may be described such as functional characteristics photos links to user manuals and the like.

Data set repository ies are used to store data sets . Data set repository ies are implemented using various types and arrangements of permanent or temporary computer readable media computer readable media are discussed in connection with . In one possible implementation data sets are stored in databases associated with MMS . In another possible implementation data sets are stored in third party databases that implement common format . Caching algorithms can play a valuable role to efficiently maintain data sets or portions thereof that change frequently or are established on the fly.

With continuing reference to illustrates an exemplary common format usable in connection with metadata management system to facilitate the computerized collection cataloging searching and presentation of relevant metadata and associated digital media content. Common format may be implemented using any appropriate encoding technique such as XML.

As shown common format is an envelope format that includes three portions and . First portion is a public portion available to all users and common to metadata items received from every digital media content source . First portion is used to store descriptive data such as text images time tags hyperlinks to related information and the like about particular digital media content that is derived from original metadata items or generated by MMS . First portion also generally provides information such as tokenized Uniform Resource Locators usable to contact specific digital media content sources providing digital media objects that are described by the data in first portion for the purpose of presentation. As such first portion serves as a superset of original metadata items transcribed from all sources . As new sources authorize collection of metadata items by MMS first portion may be modified to add elements for descriptive data specific to digital media content provided by different digital media content sources . First portion may also be modified manually or automatically to add elements for descriptive data used to improve information retrieval. The information represented in first portion is generally encoded using a common schema for representing metadata. Exemplary schemas include Digital Item Declaration Language DIDL or the World Wide Web Consortium W3C specifications for Resource Description Framework RDF . Embodiments of first portion would provide enough information to enable client side operating environments to provide a rich discovery and browse scenario of digital media content from a variety of digital media content sources without requiring specific knowledge of the specific protocols necessary for communicating with the different metadata sources. Additional client side operating environments have the ability to present the content from the source using the provided Uniform Resource Locator to the user.

Second portion is an optional private portion used to store data in a format specific to one or more digital media content sources from which original metadata items were obtained and or from which digital media content associated with descriptive data in first portion may be obtained. Information available in second portion is assumed to be represented in a computer readable format using some accepted method of data tagging which includes at a minimum an identifier for the type of data represented and the data itself. Data stored in second portion may be packed or encrypted in such a manner that it is selectively available only according to licensing or specifications that define the format of the data. Alternatively the data provided in second portion may be easily usable by any application for example encoded using a well known XML schema that the application may parse without any additional requirements or the application may be required to interact with the optional service description found in third portion to utilize the private data or to receive services based on its contents.

Optional third portion contains one or more service descriptions in the form of a Uniform Resource Identifier to a Web Service Definition Language WSDL for a digital media content source web service. The functionality of the web service is generally under the control of digital media content source . One usage of third portion is to enable access to digital media objects in cases where first portion does not specify a URL. Using this model for distribution of digital media objects operators in proprietary environments such as cable or satellite providers may be able to publish content to MMS and still restrict access to the content. Alternate digital media sources may use the web service specified in third portion as a way to create value added experiences with clients that have the ability to interact directly with the digital media content sources via the Web Service specified in third portion . The inclusion of a web service reference via MMS provides the flexibility to add differentiated experiences by enabling client side users of content within MMS to interact directly with digital media content sources for richer experiences. It will be appreciated that the information carried in first portion or second portion may be required by the service defined in third portion in order to identify the digital media content in question and use the services offered. It will also be appreciated that since both the data in second portion and the service described using third portion are provided by digital media content source that the format and contents of second portion may be proprietary to digital media content source and may require additional client side operating environments to meet certain requirements such as an appropriate security context before the service and data may be made available.

Using flexible extensible MMS and common format it is possible to ensure the consistent associations between metadata and digital media content originating from many sources of digital media content and to enable efficient yet complex computerized discovery of relevant metadata digital media content by a wide variety of network side and client side operating environments. Accordingly a wide variety of personal digital media experiences based on disparate metadata items collected from various sources can be ubiquitously provided to users of many types of personal electronic devices. As indicated it is also possible to allow digital media content source s to create rich service specific scenarios with applications running on client side operating environments and still provide a common media discovery and access model using MMS .

With continuing reference to is a flowchart illustrating certain aspects of a method for managing metadata such as metadata items and using a metadata management system such as MMS . The method s illustrated in may be implemented using computer executable instructions executed by one or more general multi purpose or single purpose processors exemplary computer executable instructions and processor are discussed further below in connection with . Unless specifically stated the methods described herein are not constrained to a particular order or sequence. In addition some of the described method or elements thereof can occur or be performed concurrently. It will be understood that all of the steps shown need not occur in performance of the functions described herein.

For exemplary purposes it is assumed that a particular user of a personal electronic device referred to as George for discussion purposes desires to use MMS to search for and browse metadata relating to digital media objects available from multiple digital media content sources . It is further assumed that George is using his personal computer PC which has Internet access to identify content related to a favorite television program. Because architecture is flexible various functions discussed in connection with can be performed using network side processing client side processing or a combination thereof.

The method begins at block and continues at block where sources of digital media content are identified. Examples of digital media content sources include but are not limited to providers of broadcast or downloadable content such as providers of television programming movies podcasts music and the like which provide such content via one or more networks and communication protocols or techniques . Sources of digital media content may be pre identified or identified on the fly by MMS . For example in the case where MMS is searching for relevant metadata digital media content in response to a user request such as a query request for information about digital media content relating to the television program that is made on behalf of George certain specific sources that provide broadcast television programs may be identified or contacted in response to the user request. Additionally MMS may be designed to cause sources that provide downloadable content to also be searched. Other embodiments of MMS may select content from existing data sets rather than directly contacting digital media content sources . For example if George had requested only related content available in high definition HD an existing data set of HD content may be examined instead of contacting sources directly.

Next at block sets of metadata items associated with digital media content available from the sources identified at block are identified. For example time or non time based metadata items such as digital content catalogs program guides and the like may be identified. Generally sets of metadata items from different sources have different formats and or are retrieved via different communication protocols or techniques . In the context of MMS pluggable source protocol adapters interfaces may be configured to communicate with different digital media content sources including but not limited to cable satellite or over the air television program providers Internet based media service providers peer devices in a local hotspot or personal area network and the like using appropriate communication protocols or techniques . In one scenario pluggable source protocol adapters interfaces may be configured to retrieve for example subscribe to all or specific subsets of available metadata items or updates thereto from particular sources on a periodic basis. In another scenario sets of metadata items or updates thereto from sources may be identified on the fly in response to a user request such as the request received from George who is seeking digital media content related to his favorite television show.

Sets of metadata items collected at block are transcribed in accordance with a common schema as indicated at block . In the context of MMS original metadata items are parsed and transcribed by metadata transformation managers into transcribed data items in accordance with common format . All or only some items in a set of collected metadata items may be transcribed and stored as data sets permanently or temporarily in one or more data set repositories data sets and data set repositories are discussed further below . For example if metadata items are collected on the fly it may be desirable to only transcribe and store relevant metadata items in response to George s request those relating to the television program. Transcription may also involve the MMS adding certain useful computer usable descriptors or links to databases catalogs at other network processing locations which can facilitate the identification of relationships between transcribed metadata items.

At block the common schema is used to identify relationships between transcribed metadata and based on the identified relationships data sets are updated or formed at block . In the context of MMS metadata aggregation engine generally identifies relationships between transcribed metadata items and forms data sets . Identification of such relationships generally involves evaluating relationships between user input information and transcribed metadata items that is data stored within first second or third portions or respectively of the common format in accordance with which the original metadata items were transcribed or between various fields of transcribed metadata items themselves. In both cases metadata selection criteria may be used in the identification of relationships between transcribed metadata items . Relationships between transcribed metadata items may be pre established or established on the fly. For example subsets of transcribed metadata items that meet certain metadata selection criteria may be pre established and periodically updated or subsets of transcribed metadata items may be established in response to user input. It will also be appreciated that it is possible to form a data set referred to as unified catalog of all transcribed data items .

In the exemplary scenario of George s search for digital media content relating to the television program a subset of transcribed metadata items from various sources that relate to the television program is identified. Generally each transcribed metadata item in the subset has descriptive data in its first portion that relates to the television program. For example transcribed metadata items associated with digital media content related to the television program such as program guides songs or links to Web sites that describe or make available the television program or actors therein video clips or audio clips are identified as related to the television program and included in the subset. The subset of metadata items that relate to the television program may have been formed prior to the query on behalf of George or formed in response to the query. MMS may have already been working on George s behalf to provide content that George wants quickly rather than requiring him to browse through all of the potential results to find something that is renderable on George s PC. The subset may be permanently or temporarily stored in one or more data set repositories located within one or more networks for example on a Web server or on George s PC. The set may also include contents from other sets such as those that meet the presentation capabilities of George s personal computer rather than linking directly to data from the original digital media content source. Alternatively MMS may identify that the results to George s request includes media in HD formats and update a dataset of HD content to include the new items.

The data set s formed at block are used to provide personal media experiences to users as indicated at block . In the context of MMS information stored via common format and associated with relevant data sets is identified by metadata aggregation engine and presented to a user of a personal electronic device via client protocol adapters interfaces . Client protocol adapters interfaces are generally configurable to provide certain information to or obtain certain information from MMS in accordance with common format to allow users to access relevant transcribed metadata items and or associated digital media content . For example information within first portion of common format may be presented to users via user interfaces in a manner that allows the users to browse metadata items relating to digital media objects in a uniform and predictable manner. When users indicate a desire to receive particular digital media objects the tokenized Uniform Resource Locators included within first portions of common format are usable to contact specific digital media content sources to obtain the digital media objects identified. If users are subscribers to services or agree to become subscribers to services offered by particular digital media content sources the users may be granted access to data stored in second portion of common format and authorized to receive such services via various client side operating environments via the service defined in the third portion of common format . Alternatively no digital media objects may be provided via tokenized Uniform Resource Locators and users may be required to use the service defined in third portion

In the example of the subset of transcribed metadata items relating to the television program the metadata items along with references to the digital media objects associated therewith are presented to George via a user interface that allows George to browse to metadata items and or digital media object descriptions and to select specific digital media objects for consumption based on a variety of criteria such as availability time format quality source and cost. A Web server may provide access to certain data sets via normal Web based protocols such as HTTP or RTSP or a rich client can perform complex searches and presentation of data sets . Client protocol adapters interfaces implemented within the network side or client side operating environment may attach to common format and expose different interfaces having presentation tools controls and connectivity features that define the way George interacts with or receive data from MMS .

In this manner it is possible to leverage the consistent associations between disparate metadata items describing digital media content available from various sources. People using a wide variety of personal electronic devices are able to discover and access relevant metadata and digital media content even when the digital media content is not available from a single source. The flexible architecture of MMS accommodates processing and caching within or on the edge of various networks and enabling efficient yet complex searching and data storage models that accommodate frequently changing data.

With continued reference to is a block diagram of an exemplary configuration of an operating environment such as a client side operating environment or a network side operating environment in which all or part of MMS and or the method s shown and discussed in connection with may be implemented or used. Operating environment is generally indicative of a wide variety of general purpose or special purpose computing environments and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the system s and methods described herein. For example operating environment may be a type of portable or non portable device such as a personal media rendering device a personal computer a phone a digital camera a server a digital video recorder an in vehicle device or a personal digital assistant.

As shown operating environment includes processor computer readable media user interfaces network interfaces and specialized hardware . Computer executable instructions are stored on computer readable media as are data sets . One or more internal buses may be used to carry data addresses control signals and other information within to or from operating environment or elements thereof.

Processor which may be a real or a virtual processor controls functions of operating environment by executing computer executable instructions . Processor may execute instructions at the assembly compiled or machine level to perform a particular process.

Computer readable media represent any number and combination of local or remote devices in any form now known or later developed capable of recording or storing computer readable data such as computer executable instructions or data sets . In particular computer readable media may be or may include a semiconductor memory such as a read only memory ROM any type of programmable ROM PROM a random access memory RAM or a flash memory for example a magnetic storage device such as a floppy disk drive a hard disk drive a magnetic drum a magnetic tape or a magneto optical disk an optical storage device such as any type of compact disk or digital versatile disk a bubble memory a cache memory a core memory a holographic memory a memory stick or any combination thereof.

Computer executable instructions represent any signal processing methods or stored instructions. Generally computer executable instructions are implemented as software components according to well known practices for component based software development and encoded in computer readable media such as computer readable media . Computer programs may be combined or distributed in various ways. Computer executable instructions however are not limited to implementation by any specific embodiments of computer programs and in other instances may be implemented by or executed in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

As shown certain computer executable instructions implement metadata transformation functions which implement aspects of metadata transformation managers certain computer executable instructions implement source client interface functions which implement aspects of protocol adapters interfaces certain computer executable instructions implement metadata aggregation functions which implement aspects of metadata aggregation engine and certain computer executable instructions implement metadata selection presentation functions which also implement aspects of metadata aggregation engine and or protocol adapters interfaces .

User interface s are physical or logical elements that define the way a user interacts with a particular application or device such as client side operating environment . Generally presentation tools are used to receive input from or provide output to a user. An example of a physical presentation tool is a display such as a monitor device. An example of a logical presentation tool is a data organization technique such as a window a menu or a layout thereof . Controls facilitate the receipt of input from a user. An example of a physical control is an input device such as a remote control a display a mouse a pen a stylus a microphone a keyboard a trackball or a scanning device. An example of a logical control is a data organization technique via which a user may issue commands. It will be appreciated that the same physical device or logical construct may function as an interface for both inputs to and outputs from a user.

Network interface s are one or more physical or logical elements that enable communication by operating environment via one or more protocols or techniques usable in connection with networks .

Specialized hardware represents any hardware or firmware that implements functions of operating environment . Examples of specialized communication hardware include encoder decoders CODECs decrypters application specific integrated circuits secure clocks and the like.

It will be appreciated that particular configurations of operating environment or MMS may include fewer more or different components or functions than those described. In addition functional components of operating environment or MMS may be implemented by one or more devices which are co located or remotely located in a variety of ways.

Although the subject matter herein has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is also to be understood that the subject matter defined in the claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

It will further be understood that when one element is indicated as being responsive to another element the elements may be directly or indirectly coupled. Connections depicted herein may be logical or physical in practice to achieve a coupling or communicative interface between elements. Connections may be implemented among other ways as inter process communications among software processes or inter machine communications among networked computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation or aspect thereof described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be constructed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations or aspects thereof.

As it is understood that embodiments other than the specific embodiments described above may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims it is intended that the scope of the subject matter herein will be governed by the following claims.

